CITY CODE
OF
FARMINGTON, MN
Code current through:
Ord. 2025-005, passed 7-21-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Farmington, as supplemented, contains
ordinances up to and including ordinance 2025-005, passed July 21, 2025.
Ordinances of the City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of
this code to the extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith.
Consult the City office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision
of the code has been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ORDINANCE 2025-006
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLES 6 AND 10 OF THE FARMINGTON CITY CODE AS IT RELATES
TO THE KEEPING OF HONEY BEES
AND THE ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES;
AND AMENDING TITLE 8, CHAPTER 12, FEES AND CHARGES SCHEDULE
The City Council of the City of Farmington ordains:
 
SECTION 1. Tile 6, Chapter 4, Section 2(C) of the Farmington City Code is
amended as follows (deleted text is stricken and added text is underlined):
 
6-4-2: KEEPING ANIMALS WITHIN THE CITY:
 
(C) Farm Animals: Except as provided in this subsection, The the keeping of
farm animals, with the exception of chickens on urban residential lots which
are regulated under section 10-6-29 of this code, is a permitted accessory use
in all zoning districts provided:
   1. The minimum lot size is two and one-half (2 ½) acres.
2. Farm animals may not be confined in a pen, feedlot or building within one
hundred feet (100') of any residential dwelling not owned or leased by the
keeper of the animals, unless:
   (a) The animals were kept prior to the adoption of this section, or
(b) The animals were kept after the adoption of this section but prior to the
existence of a residence within one hundred feet (100’).
3. The provisions of Subsections (C)1. and (C)2. do not apply to the keeping of
honey bees on urban residential lots which are regulated under section 10-6-31
of this code, and do not apply to the keeping of chickens on urban residential
lots which are regulated under section 10-6-29 of this code.
 
SECTION 2. Title 6, Chapter 6, Section 2 of the Farmington City Code is amended
as follows (deleted text is stricken and added text is underlined):
 
6-6-2: ABATEMENT:
 
When any dwelling or any building, structure, excavation, business pursuit,
matter or thing in or about a dwelling, or the lot on which it is situated, or
the plumbing, sewerage, drainage, light or ventilation thereof, is in the
opinion of the board of health Director of Community Development, in a
condition or in effect dangerous or detrimental to life or health (as set forth
in section 6-6- 1 of this section), the board of health Director of Community
Development may declare that the same, to the extent that it may specify, is a
public nuisance, and shall order the same to be removed, abated, suspended,
altered or otherwise improved or purified as the order shall specify.
 
The board of health Director of Community Development may also order or cause
any dwelling or excavation, building, structure, sewer, plumbing pipe, passage,
premises, ground, matter or thing in or about a dwelling, or the lot on which
it is situated, to be purified, cleansed, Ordinance 2025-006
Page of 1
 
disinfected, removed, altered, repaired, or improved.
 
If any order of the board of health Director of Community Development issued
under authority of the provisions hereof is not complied with, or so far
complied with as may be regarded as reasonable, within fifteen (15) days after
the service of said notice, or within such shorter time as may be designated,
then such order may be executed by the board of health, through its officers,
agents, employees or contractors Director of Community Development or the
Director’s designee(s), and the cost thereof may be assessed against said
property as provided by law an unpaid special charge pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes § 429.101.
 
Any beehive that is kept pursuant to Section 10-6-31 of this code for which a
permit has been terminated shall be removed by the beekeeper, as defined by
Section 10-6-31 of this code, within five (5) days of the permit termination or
a timeframe otherwise approved by the Planning Department. Any beehive that is
not removed by the beekeeper within five (5) days shall be deemed a public
nuisance as a safety hazard. The city shall remove the beehive on the order of
the Director of Community Development, and shall charge the beekeeper for the
costs of abatement. Any unpaid abatement cost may be assessed as an unpaid
special charge pursuant to Minnesota Statutes § 429.101.
 
 
SECTION 3.   Title 10, Chapter 6, Section 31 is hereby added as follows into
the Farmington City Code:
 
10-6-31: KEEPING OF HONEY BEES ON URBAN RESIDENTIAL LOTS
 
(A)   Definitions: The following definitions shall apply for this section:
APIARY: The assembly of one or more colonies of honey bees on a single lot.
 
APAIRY LOT: the lot upon which an apiary is located.
 
BEEKEEPER: a person who either owns one (1) more colony of honey bees and/or
owns the property on which a honey bee colony is located.
 
BEEKEEPING EQUIPMENT: anything used in the operation of an apiary, including
but not limited to hive bodies, brood boxes, supers, hive frames, top and
bottom boards, platforms, beekeeping tools or supplies, and extractors.
 
COLONY: an aggregate of honey bees, consisting generally of one queen bee,
worker bees, drone bees, or any combination thereof, and at times including
brood, comb, pollen and honey.
 
HIVE: the receptable intended for the habitation of a colony, which may be a
“top bar” hive or a traditional multistoried 8-10 frame hive that has one or
more brood boxes, plus any honey supers as may be added.
 
HONEY BEE: all life stages of the common domestic honey bees, apis mellifera
species.
 
NUCLEUS HIVE: a hive receptacle or hive body that is nine and five-eighths
inches deep, and holds three to five frames and a small quantity of honey bees,
which may include a queen, for particular beekeeping purposes, such as starting
a new colony, introducing of a new queen to an existing colony, or rearing a
new queen.
 
SWARMING: the process where a queen bee leaves a colony with a large group of
worker bees.
 
(B)   Administrative Permit Required: An administrative permit shall be
required for the keeping of honey bees upon a property less than two and one-
half (2 ½) acres in size and developed with a single-family dwelling within a
residential zoning district. The keeping of honey bees on lots two and one-half
(2 ½) acres and larger are regulated under section 6-4-2 of this code. An
administrative permit application must be submitted to the Planning Department
with a fee, as established by the City Council. Upon receipt of the
administrative permit application, all adjacent property owners will be
notified of the application. Supporting information/documents to be submitted
to the Planning Department with an administrative permit application are:
1.   Number of colony hives to be kept on the premises. The beekeeper must live
on the property where the colony hives are kept.
2.   Detailed site plan of the lot on which the colony hives are to be kept.
The site plan shall show the lot dimensions, location of the colony hives,
setbacks of the colony hives to property lines, setbacks of the colony hives
from dwelling units, decks, patios, swimming pools, or other outdoor living
spaces on adjacent properties, and the location, length, and materials of
proposed flyway barriers.
3.   Proof of completion of a beekeeping basics course through the University
of Minnesota Bee Lab or a local beekeeper club/association within 12 months of
the date of the application or proof of three or more consecutive years of
actual beekeeping experience, established by substantiated evidence thereof,
within five years immediately preceding the date of application. The Planning
Department shall have the final determination if the education requirements are
met or if additional evidence or education is needed.
4.   Any other information the Planning Department deems necessary to evaluate
the application for compliance with the requirements of this section.
(A)   Duration of Permit: An approved permit shall be valid for 1 year and must
be renewed every year from its date of issuance.
(B)   Performance Standards:
1.   The number of colony hives permitted on a lot is determined as follows:
(a)   Less than 0.5 acres: 2 colonies
(b)   0.5 acres to less than 2.5 acres: 4 colonies
(c)   Larger than 2.5 acres: no restriction
1.   Colony hives are only allowed in the rear yard
2.   Colony hives shall observe the following setbacks:
(a)   20 feet from any lot line or 5 feet if the lot line abuts a stormwater
pond/wetland area with no adjacent trails.
(b)   30 feet from decks, patios, swimming pools, or other outdoor living
spaces on adjacent properties
1.   If a colony hive is kept within 25 feet of a lot line of the apiary site
or within 35 feet of a dwelling unit, deck, patio, swimming pool, or other
living space on an adjacent lot, a flyway barrier of at least six feet in
height shall be required in accordance with the following requirements:
(a)   The flyway barrier shall either be a stone wall, solid fence, dense
vegetation or combination thereof, in order that honey bees must fly over,
rather than through, the material to reach the colony. The flyway barrier shall
be constructed of high quality, durable materials and follow any other
applicable City Code provisions herein.
(b)   If a flyway barrier is proposed to be dense vegetation, the initial
planting may be four feet in height, so long as the vegetation reaches six feet
in height or higher within two years of planting. The vegetation shall provide
dense screening from six inches from grade to the top of the vegetation year-
round.
(c)   The flyway barrier shall either continuously run parallel to the apiary
site’s lot line for a distance of ten (10) feet in both directions in front of
each hive entrance side or the flyway barrier shall surround three sides of the
hive including the entrance and both sides of the hive to force the colony to
go up and out of the hive rather than go straight, left, or right.
1.   Colonies shall be kept in hives with removable frames and kept in good
condition.
2.   Each hive shall be continuously managed to provide adequate and healthy
living spaces to prevent swarming.
3.   All beekeeping equipment shall be kept in good condition and unused
equipment shall be stored indoors.
4.   Each colony shall be provided with a source of clean water.
5.   For each colony allowed, there may also be one nucleus colony in a hive
structure not to exceed one standard 9-5/8 inch depth ten (10) -frame hive body
with no supers.
6.   If a colony exhibits frequent aggressive behavior, the beekeeper shall
take immediate action to address and correct it, including replacing the queen,
if necessary.
7.   Fruit trees and other flowering trees may not be sprayed while in full
bloom with any substance harmful to honey bees.
(A)   Inspection: Upon issuance of the permit and full set up of the first
hive, the permit holder shall permit the city to inspect the apiary lot. The
apiary lot shall be inspected each time a renewal permit is received. The
apiary lot may be inspected at any reasonable time to ensure compliance with
this ordinance.
(B)   Termination:
1.   An approved permit shall be terminated and the colony hives shall be
removed from the apiary lot if any of the following occurs:
(a)   The permit expires without a renewal application being received.
(b)   The city finds a violation of the approved permit or this ordinance.
(c)   Failure to allow the city to inspect the apiary lot.
(d)   The keeping of honey bees in an unlawful manner so as to constitute a
public nuisance or to otherwise adversely affect the health, safety or general
welfare of the public.
(e)   A transfer of ownership of the property.
1.   Any hive not removed after a permit has been terminated shall be deemed a
public nuisance and may be abated pursuant to Section 6-6-2 of this code.
 
 
SECTION 4. FEE SCHEDULE. Beekeeping Permit Fees are hereby added to the 2025
Fee Schedule as follows:
 
 
Permits - Special 2025 Amount
Beekeeping Permit
Initial Permit    $100
Renewal Permit    $40
 
SECTION 5. SUMMARY PUBLICATION.
 
CITY OF FARMINGTON
DAKOTA COUNTY, MINNESOTA
SUMMARY PUBLICATION
ORDINANCE 2025-006
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLES 6 AND 10 OF THE
FARMINGTON CITY CODE AS IT RELATES TO THE KEEPING OF HONEY BEES
AND THE ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES;
AND AMENDING TITLE 8, CHAPTER 12, FEES AND CHARGES SCHEDULE
 
During their August 18, 2025 meeting, the City Council of the City of
Farmington passed Ordinance 2025-006. Pursuant to Minnesota Statues Section
412.191, in the case of a lengthy ordinance, a summary may be published. While
a copy of the entire ordinance is available for inspection and without cost by
any person at the office of the City Clerk, the summary is approved by the City
Council and shall be published in lieu of publishing the entire ordinance:
 
This ordinance includes the following related to Titles 6, 8, and 10 of the
Farmington City Code:
   Establishes a permit that would allow for beekeeping on urban residential
lots.
   Establishes requirements and performance standards for beekeeping on urban
residential lots.
   Establishes abatement procedures for terminated beekeeping permits.
   Establishes permit fees for a beekeeping permit.
 
EFFECTIVE DATE: This ordinance shall be effective upon its passage and
publication according to law. Passed by the City Council of the City of
Farmington, Minnesota, this 18th day of August 2025.
 
 
 
SECTION 6. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance shall be effective upon its passage
and publication according to law.
 
Passed by the City Council of the City of Farmington, Minnesota, this 18th day
of August 2025.
 
                     ATTEST:
 
 
____________________________         ______________________________
Joshua Hoyt, Mayor               Shirley R Buecksler, City Clerk
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
236882v2
CITY OF FARMINGTON
DAKOTA COUNTY, MINNESOTA
 
ORDINANCE 2025-007
 
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 6, CHAPTER 9,
OF THE FARMINGTON CITY CODE
AS IT RELATES TO PARK REGULATIONS
 
The City Council of the City of Farmington hereby ordains:
 
SECTION 1. The Table of Contents for Title 6, Chapter 9 of the Farmington City
Cide is hereby amended by adding the underlined language and deleting the
[strikethrough] language as follows:
SECTION:
6-9-1: Definition
6-9-2: Defacing Or Destroying Property
6-9-3: Littering Prohibited
6-9-4: Park Hours
6-9-5: Open Fires Prohibited
6-9-6: Prohibited Activities
6-9-7: Animals In Parks
6-9-8: Camping
6-9-9: Motor Vehicles
6-9-10: Reservations
6-9-11: Rules
6-9-12: Violation Enforcement and Penalties
 
SECTION 2. Title 6, Chapter 9, Section 1 of the Farmington City Cide is hereby
amended by adding the underlined language as follows:
 
6-9-1: DEFINITION:
Public park, or parks, is any land , structure, or improvement owned or leased
by the City for the use of the public for active or passive recreation. Public
parks include any improved or unimproved trails, sidewalks, and parking lots or
areas.
 
SECTION 3. Title 6, Chapter 9, Section 6 of the Farmington City Cide is hereby
amended by adding the underlined language as follows:
6-9-6: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
* * *
Ordinance 2025-007
Page of 1
 
(I) Smoking, vaporizing, or otherwise consuming any tobacco or cannabis product
in any public park is prohibited, including any improved or unimproved trails,
sidewalks, and parking lots or areas, or inside a motor vehicle within the
public park. For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
 
(1)   Electronic delivery device means any product containing or delivering
cannabis, other plant, or nicotine, lobelia or any other substance, whether
natural or synthetic, intended for human consumption through the inhalation of
aerosol or vapor from the product. Electronic delivery device includes, but is
not limited to, devices manufactured, marketed or sold as e-cigarettes, e-
cigars, e-pipes, vape pens, mods, tank systems, or under any other product name
or descriptor. Electronic delivery device includes any component part of a
product, whether or not marketed or sold separately. Electronic delivery device
does not include any “drug,” “device,” or “combination product” as defined in
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act that has been authorized by the United
States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, a
tobacco dependence product, or for other medical purposes.
(2)   Smoking means inhaling, exhaling, burning, vaporizing, or carrying any
lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated
product containing, made or derived from nicotine, marijuana, or other plant,
whether natural or synthetic, that is intended for inhalation. Smoking includes
carrying or using an activated electronic delivery device.
(3)   Tobacco product includes any product containing, made, or derived from
tobacco or nicotine, whether natural or synthetic, that is intended for human
consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted,
sniffed, or ingested by any other means, or any component, part, or accessory
of a tobacco product including, but not limited to, cigarettes; cigars;
cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco;
fine cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings
and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco.
 
SECTION 4. Title 6, Chapter 9, Section 11 of the Farmington City Code is hereby
amended by adding the underlined language and deleting the [strikethrough]
language as follows:
 
6-9-11: RULES:
   (A)   Rules and regulations governing the use and enjoyment of the parks may
be adopted from time to time by the City Council governing the use and
enjoyment of the parks. Such rules and regulations shall be part of this
chapter and may be posted in the parks.
 
   (B)   Any person who violates a Compliance with such rules or regulations so
posted adopted shall be enforced as set forth in this chapter may be excluded
from the use of the park and may, in addition, be prosecuted for a misdemeanor.
  
 (C)   Emergency rules and regulations may be implemented by the park and
recreation department in unique, unusual or hazardous situations. They shall
remain in effect for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days.
SECTION 5. Title 6, Chapter 9, Section 12 of the Farmington City Cide is hereby
amended by adding the underlined language and deleting the [strikethrough]
language as follows:
 
6-9-12: VIOLATIONENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
Except for violations of Section 6-9-6(I), Violation violation of any of the
terms or conditions section of this chapter, including rules and regulations
adopted by the City Council from time to time, shall constitute a misdemeanor.
For violations of Section 6-9-6(I), initial enforcement shall be a request for
voluntary compliance made by a City employee or made by a law enforcement
officer of the City or County. If any person refuses to voluntarily comply with
Section 6-9-6(I), or commits a subsequent violation of Section 6-9-6(I), such
person may be issued a citation for a fine of up to $300, and may be excluded
from the use of the park.
 
SECTION 6. SUMMARY PUBLICATION. Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Section 412.191,
in the case of a lengthy ordinance, a summary may be published upon a four-
fifths vote of the City Council. While a copy of the entire ordinance is
available for inspection and without cost by any person at the office of the
City Clerk, the following summary is approved by the City Council and shall be
published in lieu of publishing the entire ordinance.
 
This ordinance includes the following changes relating to Title 6, Chapter 9,
of the Farmington City Code:
 
   Amending the Table of Contents
   Amending Section 6-9-1 to amend the definition of “Public park, or parks”
   Adding Section 6-9-6(I) establishing a prohibition on smoking, vaporizing,
or otherwise consuming any tobacco or cannabis product in any public park
   Amending Section 6-9-11 related to park rules and regulations
   Amending Section 6-9-12 related to enforcement of the ordinance and
penalties for violations
 
SECTION 7. EFFECTIVE DATE. This ordinance shall be effective upon its passage
and publication according to law.
 
Passed by the City Council of the City of Farmington, Minnesota, this 15th day
of September 2025.
   
                  ATTEST:
 
                                 
Joshua Hoyt, Mayor            Shirley R Buecksler, City Clerk
 
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 181
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE ADOPTION OF THE OFFICIAL CODE OF THE VILLAGE OF
FARMINGTON; PROVIDING FOR THE CONTINUANCE IN EFFECT OF ALL GENERAL LAWS IN
EFFECT ON THE DATE OF SUCH ADOPTION; PROVIDING FOR THE CONTINUATION OF ALL
SPECIAL ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED IN THE OFFICIAL CODE AND PROVIDING FOR THE
REGULAR SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE OFFICIAL VILLAGE CODE.
BE IT ORDAINED By the Mayor and Council of the Village of Farmington,
Minnesota:
Section 1: Pursuant to the provisions of Section 412.191, Subdivision 5 of the
Minnesota Statutes, from and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the
Village Code of the Village of Farmington, prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.
under the direction of the Council of the Village containing all ordinances of
a general nature in effect at the time of such codification and said Code shall
be accepted in all courts without question as the Official Code and Law of the
Village as enacted by the President and Village Council.
Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification, the
loose leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service
provided by Sterling Codifiers, Inc., whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a
general and permanent nature amending, altering, adding to or deleting
provisions of the Official Village Code is identified by the proper catch line
and is inserted in the proper place in each of the official copies. Each such
new provision shall become effective upon the passage of the ordinance and the
insertion of the proper replacement pages in the copies of the Code, three (3)
copies of which shall be maintained in the office of the Clerk, certified as to
correctness and available for inspection at any and all times that said office
is regularly open.
Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official Village
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the Council
shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness of
ordinances included in said Official Village Code.
Passed and adopted this 7th day of December, 1970.
         S/ Warren L. Kleinsasser
         Warren L. Kleinsasser, Mayor
         Village of Farmington
         Farmington, Minnesota
 
 
ATTEST:
S/ Roy Rademacher
Roy Rademacher, Clerk
Village of Farmington
Farmington, Minnesota
FARMINGTON VILLAGE CHARTER
VILLAGE CHARTER
   (An Act To Amend and Codify the Several Acts Incorporating
   the Village of Farmington, Dakota, County, Minnesota)
   Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Minnesota:
   Sec. 1. The inhabitants of that portion of the township of Empire in Dakota
County, State of Minnesota, hereinafter describe shall hence forth be a body
politic and corporate by the name of the Village of Farmington, and shall have
all the powers of a municipal corporation at common law, together with such
other powers as are hereinafter specially granted; and the authorities thereof
shall have perpetual succession and be capable of suing and being sued,
contracting and being contracted with, pleading and being impleaded with in all
courts of law or equity, and shall have a common seal which they may alter at
pleasure.
   Sec. 2. The territory included in said Village of Farmington shall be all of
section 31, township 114, range 19 west, in said County of Dakota; and the
jurisdiction of said village authorities shall extend beyond said limits in all
directions a distance of one mile for the purpose of prosecuting or punishing
for violations of the laws of the state, this charter or ordinances or by-laws
of said village.
   Sec. 3. The government of said corporation and the management of all its
municipal concerns shall be vested in three trustees (one of whom shall be
chosen by themselves as president), one treasurer, two justices of the peace,
one assessor, one marshall, one street commissioner and one clerk, all of whom
shall be residents of said village. The trustees, treasurer and justices of the
peace shall be elected by the qualified voters of said village. The assessor,
street commissioner, marshall and clerk of said village shall be appointed by
the trustees of said village annually at the first session of the trustees
after the expiration of the time for the qualification of the newly elected
trustees, and may be removed at any time by said trustees. All officers
qualified. The trustees may fill by appointment any vacancy in any village
office. At the next election after the passage of this act there shall be
elected three trustees who shall hold their office respectively; one for one
year, one for two years and one for three years, and two justices of the peace,
who shall hold their offices one for one year and one for two years, and
thereafter at every annual election there shall be elected one trustee and one
justice of the peace, the term of office of the trustees and justices of the
peace elected at said first election shall be determined by the electors in
their localities.
   (Officers, Their Powers and Duties)
   Sec. 4. Every person elected or appointed to the office of treasurer,
assessor, street commissioner, marshall and clerk under this charter and within
ten days after he is notified by the clerk of his election or appointment shall
take and subscribe before some officer authorized to administer oaths, an oath
to support the constitution of the United States and of the State of Minnesota,
an faithfully discharge the duties of his office to the best of his ability.
Such oath shall be administered without fee and be certified by the officer
before whom it was taken, with the date of taking the same; and the person
taking such oath shall immediately and before entering on the duties of his
office, file such certificate with the clerk of said village. The treasurer of
said village shall receive all moneys belonging to the village, and keep an
accurate and detailed account thereof, and semi-annually he shall exhibit to
the board of trustees a full and detailed account of all the receipts and
expenditures after the date of the last semi-annual report and also the state
of the treasury, which accounts shall be filed with the village clerk. Every
person elected or appointed to the office of justice of the peace in said
village shall within ten days after he is notified of his election, execute a
bond to their trustees or their successors in office, with two or more
sufficient sureties to be approved by the president of said village in the
penal sum of not less than $500 nor more than $1000, conditioned for the
faithful discharge of his official duties. Said president shall endors
(endorse) 1  thereon his approval of the sureties named in such bond, and such
justice shall immediately file the same together with his oath of office duly
certified with the clerk of the district court of Dakota county for the benefit
of any person aggrieved by the acts of said justice; and any person aggrieved
may maintain an action on such bond in his own name against such justice an his
sureties. The trustees of said village or a majority of them shall constitute a
village board for the purpose of auditing all accounts payable by the said
village, and shall meet as often as they deem necessary for that purpose, and
shall have power to determine the amount of taxes to be levied each year on the
taxable property of said village for all village for all village (duplication
in original Charter)* purposes, and shall have power to abate such taxes in
their discretion in whole or in part. The said marshall of said village shall
have all the powers of a constable under the laws of Minnesota, and shall
perform such other duties as shall be prescribed by such trustees for the
preservation of the public peace. The assessor shall have the same powers and
authority and perform the same duties as are or may be required by the laws of
this state of town assessors, and shall qualify in the same manner; said
assessor shall, whenever the village board so determines, make and return a
census of the population of the village in the manner and form prescribed by
said village board.
   Sec. 5. The said village of Farmington and the remaining portions of the
town of Empire outside of the limits of said village shall for general and
township election purposes be and constitute as heretofore one elect on
district or precinct of Dakota county and the officers of said town of Empire
shall conduct such general and township elections and make returns thereof as
prescribed by the general election laws of the state, and the people of the
town of Empire may hold their general elections and town meetings in the
corporate limits of the village of Farmington if they choose so to do.
   Sec. 6. There shall be an annual election held on the first Tuesday of April
in each year in said village, at which the electors of said village qualified
to vote as hereinafter required may elect by ballot and by a plurality of votes
the trustees, treasurer, and justice of the peace of said village. The trustees
of said village shall act as judges of election, but in case of the absence of
either of them any qualified voter of said village may be selected by the
voters present to act as such judge; at all village elections held under this
act the polls shall be open at ten o'clock in the forenoon and continue open
until four o'clock in the afternoon of the same day; and the election shall be
by ballot and shall be conducted and governed in the same manner as far as may
be as township elections. The village clerk shall give notice of such elections
similar to that required for township elections. Provided, that any failure to
give the notice aforesaid shall not in any manner invalidate any elections.
Special elections may be called at any time by the trustees of said village on
the petition of ten freeholders of said village, and by giving the notice above
required, stating the object of such election. The first election under this
act shall be held on the first Tuesday of April, 1881, and W. C. Eustis, Daniel
Underwood, and George W. Dilley or any two of them shall act as judge of said
election, and shall give ten days notice of that time and place of holding said
election by posting up notices thereof in three public places in said village;
they shall canvass the votes and issue certificates of election to those
receiving the highest number of votes; and it shall be the duty of the trustees
elected in said village or a majority of them to choose annually one of said
justices of the peace as village justice. In case of absence, disability or
other disability of the village justice the other justice shall exercise the
functions and duties of the village justice and during such disability and no
longer.
   Sec. 7. Any person appointed to any office by the trustees may be removed by
said trustees or majority of them whenever they shall deem it for the interest
of said village that such removal be made and any officer elected by the people
may also be removed by said trustees or majority of them on cause being shown
for such removal, and by serving the person sought to be removed with a written
statement of said charges and containing a notice of the time and place for
said officer to appear before said trustees, which notice shall be served at
least five days before said hearing and may be enlarged on cause being shown to
enable the officer to make his defence or the complainant to procure witnesses.
   (Elections shall be by ballot.)
   Sec. 8. All elections by the people shall be by ballot and each ballot shall
contain the names of the person voted for, with the proper designation of the
office printed or written thereon, and a plurality of votes shall constitute an
election.
   (Qualification of Electors)
   Sec. 9. All persons qualified and entitled to vote for state or county
officers and have resided in the village 30 days next preceeding the election
shall be entitled to vote for any officer to be elected under this charter, and
to hold any office hereby created.
   (Elections, How Conducted?)
   Sec. 10. The elections in said village shall be held and conducted by the
trustees of said village, who shall be inspectors of election and take the
usual oath or affirmation as prescribed by the general laws of the state, to be
taken by the judges and inspectors of election and shall have power to appoint
clerks of such elections, and to administer the necessary oarhs (oath's)*.
   (Special Elections to be Held, When?)
   Sec. 11. Special elections shall be held and conducted by the trustees in
the same manner as annual electeions (elections) 2  are held and conducted in
said village.
   (Officers Removing)
   Sec. 12. Any officer removing from the village for which he was elected, or
any officer who shall refuse or neglect for ten days after notice of his
election or appointment to enter upon the discharge of the duties of his
office, shall be deemed to have vacated his office, and the trustees shall
proceed to fill the vacancy as herein prescribed.
   (Failure by People to Elect)
   Sec. 13. Should there be a failure by the people to elect any officer herein
required to be elected on the day designated, the trustees may order a new
election to be held ten days notice of the time and place being given.
   (Village Justices, Their Powers and Jurisdictions)
   Sec. 14. The justices of the peace elected in said village shall possess all
the authority, power and rights of a justice of the peace of the county, under
the laws of this state; and the justice of the peace elected, chosen and
selected by the trustees of the village, as village justice, shall have, in
addition to his general duties, exclusive jurisdiction to hear and try, all
complaints for violation of any provision or provisions of the village charter
or any ordinance, by-law, regulation, rule or regulation adopted by virtue
thereof, and of all cases cognizable before a justice of the peace in which the
village is a party, and of all writs, prosecutions, and proceedings in the
recovery of any fines, forfeiture or penalty under any by-law, ordinance,
regulation of the said village or its charter and in all cases of offenses
committed against the same. And the same village justice shall have
jurisdiction in, case of larceny, and may hear and try the same when the amount
claimed to have been stolen does not exceed the sum of $20. In all prosecutions
for assault, batteries and affrays and for all other offences not indictable
and in all civil suits or proceedings before the said village justice, the same
forms and proceeding shall be had and used where not otherwise directed, as are
established and required to be had in civil and criminal actions by the laws of
this state before a justice of the peace. And the appeals from the decisions of
said village justice shall be allowed as provided by law for the appeals from
judgments rendered by justices of the peace. In all cases for convictions for
assaults, batteries and affrays within said village, and in all cases of
convictions under any ordinances of said village for the breach of the peace,
disorderly conduct, keeping houses of ill-fame, or frequenting the same, or of
keeping or maintaining disorderly or ill-governed houses, the said village
justice shall have power in addition to the fine and penalty imposed, to compel
said offenders to give security for their good behavior and to keep the peace
for a period not to exceed six months, and in a sum not exceeding $500; the
said village justice shall have the same power and authority in the case of
contempt as justices of the peace under the laws in force. All fines and
penalties imposed by the village justice for offenses committed within village
limits, for the violation of any ordinance, bylaw, or regulation of said
village, shall belong to and be a part of the finances of said village, for
offences against the laws of the state of the county treasury.
   (Shall Report to the Trustees)
   Sec. 15.The village justice as often as the trustees shall require, report
to the village trustees all the proceedings instituted before him, in which the
village is interested, and shall at the same time if required by said trustees,
account for and pay over to the village treasurer all fines and penalties
received or collected by him belonging to said village, and said justice shall
be entitled to receive such fees in criminal cases as allowed by statute to
justices of the peace for similar services, and in case said justices shall
refuse or neglect to report to the village trustees as required in this
section, he shall be liable to be removed by such trustees as such village
justice, without requiring any other cause to be shown.
   (Further Powers of Board of Trustees)
   Sec. 16. The board of trustees shall have power at any time to require other
and further duties to be performed by any officer whose duties are herein
prescribed, not inconsistent with this act, and to appoint a marshall to be
known as village marshall who shall have full power and authority to arrest and
bring offenders before the village justice or other justice of the peace for
acts committed in said village, and said marshall shall be entitled to such
compensation for his services as said trustees shall deem proper to allow and
hold his office as such marshal during the pleasure of trustees of said village
and said trustees may appoint if necessary for the safety and good order of
citicens (citizens) 3  of said village, such other officers as they may deem
proper to aid in protecting the citizens of said village. Provided that the
trustees of the said village of Farmington shall receive no compensation for
their services.
   (What Officers are Conservators of the Peace)
   Sec. 17. The trustees of said village, justices of the peace of said
village, marshall and watchmen, shall be officers of the peace of said village,
with powers of constables at common law, and may command the peace, suppress in
a summary manner all rioting and disorderly behavior within the limits of said
village, and for such purpose may command the assistance of the by-standers and
if need be of all the citizens and all military companies and if any person,
by-stander, military officer or private shall refuse to aid in maintaining the
peace when so required each person shall forfeit and pay a fine not to exceed
$50.
   (Powers of the Trustees in Passing Ordinances)
   Sec. 18. The trustees of the village of Farmington shall have the management
and control of the finances and all the property of the village and shall
likewise in addition to the powers herein vested in them, have full power and
authority to make, enact, ordain, establish, publish, enforce, alter, modify,
amend and repeal all such ordinances, by-laws, rules and regulations for the
government and good order of the village for the suppression of vice and
intemperance, and for the prevention of crime, as they shall deem expedient;
provided, that until otherwise ordered by the trustees of said village, the
village jail of the village shall be used as a village prison; and it shall be
the duty of the marshall of said village to take into custody for safe keeping
in said jail, all persons committed thereto until discharged according to law.
The village trustees shall have power and authority to declare and impose
penalties and punishments and to enforce the same against any person or persons
who may violate any provisions of any ordinance, or by-law passed or ordained
by them; and all such ordinances, rules or by-laws are hereby declared to have
full force of the law; provided, that they be not repugnant to the constitution
and laws of the United States and laws of this state, and for these purposes
shall have authority by ordinance, resolution or by-laws.
   First--To license and regulate exhibitions of common showmen of all kids, or
the exhibition of caravans, circuses, concerts, or theatrical performances,
billiard tables, nine or ten pin alleys, bowling saloons, to grant licenses to
and regulate auctions and auctioneers, tavern keepers, and victualing house
keepers, and all persons dealing in spiritous, vinous, or fermented liquors.
Provide, that all licenses for so dealing in spirituous, vinous or fermented
liquors shall not be less than $50 per year, and no license shall be granted
for a less term than one year, and all licenses shall commence on the first day
of May of each year and terminate on the first day of May subsequent to the
granting of the same. Provided, that said trustees shall have exclusive
jurisdiction and control of all matters in the subdivision specified to the
entire exclusion of any control or right to regulate or restrain in said
matters of any board, officers, persons, or municipality of this county, and
that nothing herein contained shall be so construed as to prevent the voters of
said village from deciding for themselves whether licenses shall be granted in
said village to such persons and in such number as the trustees of said village
may think proper for the sale of spirituous, vinous, fermented or malt liquors
in less quantities than five gallons, and the village clerk is hereby required
upon the petition of ten or more legal voters of said village at any time not
less than 20 days before any annual village election to give notice at the time
of giving notice of such election that the question of license will be
submitted at said election, which question shall be determined by ballots
containing the words, "in favor of license," or "against license," as the case
may be, which ballots shall be determined and canvassed as by this act
prescribed for canvassing and determining the votes cast at said election for
village officers, and if upon such canvass it is found that such a majority of
votes casts cast at such election on that question shall be against license a
certificate of such result shall be filed with the clerk and said trustees
shall not hereafter until subsequent contrary vote grant any license for the
sale of spirituous, vinous, fermented, malt or intoxicating liquors.
Second--To restrain and prohibit all descriptions of gambling and fraudulent
devices and practices and all playing of cards, dice and other games of chance
for the purpose of gambling in said village, and to restrain any person from
selling, giving or dealing in spirituous, vinous or fermented liquors unless
duly licensed by said trustees, and to revoke any license granted for selling
the same, and any person so licensed shall allow gambling, card playing or
shaking of dice in the saloon kept by the person so licensed, or who shall keep
his saloon open on the Sabbath or allow any person to enter therein on that
day.
   Third--To prevent any riots, disorderly assemblages in said village and
provide for the arrest of and punishment of any person or persons who shall be
guilty of the same, to suppress disorderly houses, and houses of ill-fame and
provide for the arrest and punishment of keepers thereof, and to authorize the
seizure of and destruction of all instruments used for the purpose of gambling.
   Fourth--To compel the owner or owners of cellar, tallow chandler, soap, soap
factory, tannery, stable, barn, privy, sewer, or other unwholesome structure or
place, to cleanse, remove or abate the same from time to time as often as may
be necessary for the health, comfort and convenience of the inhabitants of the
village.
   Fifth--To direct the location and management of slaughter houses and
markets, and to establish rates for and license vendors of gunpowder and
regulate the storage, keeping and conveying of gunpowder or other combustible
materials.
   Sixth--To prevent the encumbering of the streets, alleys, lanes and public
grounds with carriages, carts, wagons, slays or other vehicles, or with boxes,
lumber, fire wood, posts, awnings, or and (any) 4  other material or substance
whatever.
   Seven--To prevent and punish immoderate driving or riding in the streets, to
regulate the speed of cars of locomotives in said village, and to prevent their
obstructing the streets in said village, to compel persons to fasten their
horses or other animals attached to vehicles or otherwise while standing in the
street, and to regulate places of bathing and swimming in the waters within the
village limits.
   Eight--To restrain the running at large of horses, cattle, swine, sheep, and
other domestic animals, and authorize the destraining and sale of the same and
to impose penalties on the owners of such animals for a violation of the
ordinances; Provided, that when a sale of such animals be made the proceeds
thereof after deducting the expenses of destraining, keeping advertising and
selling such animals shall be deposited in the office of the treasurer of said
village for the use and benefit of the owners thereof, if called for by such
owner within one year from date of sale.
   Nine--To prevent the running at large of dogs and may impose a tax on the
same in a summary manner when at large contrary to the ordinances of said
village.
   Ten--To prevent any person from bringing depositing or having within said
village any putrid carcass or unwholesome substance, and to require the removal
of the same by any person who shall have upon his premises any such substance
or any putrid or unsound meat flesh or fish or hides or skins of any kinds, to
authorize the removal of the same at the expense of the owners or persons
depositing the same.
   Eleventh--To establish and construct public pounds, pumps, wells, cisterns,
reservoirs and hydrants. To erect lamp posts and provide for the lighting of
the Village and control the erection of gas works or other works for lighting
the streets, public grounds and public buildings and to create alter and extend
lamp districts; to regulate hacks, cart omnibuses and the charges of hackmen,
draymen, cabmen and omnibuses in the village.
   Twelve--To establish and regulate boards of health, provide hospitals,
hospital grounds, and the regulations of births and deaths, and the returns of
bills of mortality and to regulate or prevent if deemed expedient the burial of
the dead within the village limits.
   Thirteenth--To prevent all persons from riding or driving any horse, mule,
ox or other animal on the sidewalks in said village or in any way doing damage
to said sidewalks.
   Fourteen--To prevent the discharging of fire arms or crackers and to prevent
the exhibition of any fire works in any situation which may be considered by
the trustees dangerous to the village or any property therein or annoying to
any of the citizens thereof.
   Fifteenth--To prevent open and notorious drunkenness, brawling and obscenity
in the streets or public places of the village and to provide for the arrest
and punishment of all persons who shall be guilty of the same.
   Sixteenth--To establish public markets and other public buildings and make
rules and regulations for the government of the same; to appoint suitable
officers for overseeing and regulating such markets and to restrain all persons
from interrupting or interfering with a due observance of such rules and
regulations.
   Seventeen--To license and regulate butcher shops and stands for the sale of
game, poultry, butchers meat, butter, fish and other provisions.
   Eighteen--To regulate the place and manner of selling hay and measuring and
selling fire wood, coal, peat, and lime and to appoint suitable persons to
superintend and conduct the same.
   Nineteen--To compel the owner or occupant of buildings or grounds to remove
snow, dirt or rubbish from the sidewalk, street or alley opposite thereto and
to compel the owners or occupants to remove from the lot owned or occupied by
him all such substances as the board of health shall direct and in default to
authorize the removal or destruction of the same by some officer at the expense
of the owner or occupant.
   Twentieth--To regulate and control and prevent the landing of persons from
cars, wagons, buggies or other conveyances whereon are persons afflicted with
contagious disease or disorders, and to make such disposition of such persons
as shall preserve the health of the village.
   Twenty-first--To regulate the time, manner and place of hilding (holding) 5
public auctions and vendues and sales at public outcry.
   Twenty-second--To provide for watchmen and to prescribe their number and
duties and regulate the same, and to create and regulate the police of said
village and to prescribe the number of police officers and their duties and to
regulate the same.
   Twenty-third--To provide by ordinance for a standard of weights and
measures, for the appointment of a village sealer and require all weights and
measures to be sealed by said village sealer and to provide for the punishment
of the use of false weights and measures.
   Twenty-fourth--To regulate and direct the planting of ornamental trees in
the streets, alleys and public grounds and highways of the village.
   Twenty-fifth--To remove or abate any nuisance injurious to the public health
or safety, and to remove or require to be removed and building which by reason
of dilapidation, defects in structure or any other cause may have or shall
become imminently dangerous to life or property; and to provide for the
punishment of all persons who shall cause and maintain such nuisances and to
charge the expense of removing or abating the same upon the lots upon which
said nuisance or dangerous building may stand.
   Twenty-sixth--To remove and abate any nuisance, obstruction, encroachment
upon the streets, alleys, public grounds and highways of the village.
   Twenty-seventh--To restrain and punish vagrants, mendicants, street beggars
and prostitutes and provide for the punishment of the same.
   Twenty-eighth--Fines, penalties and punishments imposed by the trustees for
the breach of any ordinance, resolution, by-law or regulation of said village
may extend to a fine not exceeding $100 and imprisonment in the village jail or
both, and to be fed on bread and water at the discretion of the village
justice; and offenders against the same may be required to give security for
their good behavior and to keep the peace for a period not exceeding six months
and in a sum not exceeding $500 and in cases in which imprisonment of the
accused is judged proper by the village justice, and the nature of the offence
is such, and the condition of the village jail is such that the village justice
deems it best that the accused be confined in the county jail of said Dakota
county, Minn., the village justice may order the accused to be imprisoned in
the county jail of said Dakota county at the expense of said village, and the
said sheriff of Dakota county shall receive the accused accordingly.
   Twenty-ninth--To regulate the width and surface line of sidewalks and to
prevent damage thereto.
   Thirtieth--To prescribe limits within which wooden buildings or buildings of
other materials that shall not be deemed fireproof, shall not be erected,
placed or repaired.
   Thirty-first--To prevent the construction, placing and condition of
chimneys, fireplaces, hearths, stoves, stovepipes, ovens, boilers, and
appurtenances used in and about any building in a dangerous manner and when
found so constructed, to caused (cause) 6  the same to be placed in a safe and
secure condition, and to prevent the deposit of ashes in unsafe places, and to
regulate and prevent the carrying on of manufacturies dangerous in causing or
promoting fires within the village.
   Thirty-second--To provide that any male person convicted of any offense
before the village justice subjecting such person to imprisonment, may be kept
at hard labor in any workhouse established by the village trustees for that
purpose, or upon the public streets or other improvements of said village or
both, until such person shall work out the amount of such fine in conformity
with any ordinance of said village.
   Thirty-third--The village trustees shall have power to authorize the
formation of fire companies, hook and ladder companies, bucket and hose
companies, and to provide for the regulation of the same, and to order such
companies to be disbanded at any time. Each member of every such company shall
be exempt from poll tax, from serving on juries and from militia duty during
the continuance of such membership.
   Sec. 19. The style of all ordinances shall be: "The trustees of the village
of Farmington do ordain:" and all ordinances, resolutions, and by- laws shall
be passed by an affirmative vote of the trustees, a quorum being present, (the
president of the board having a right to vote) by ayes and noes, and published
in a newspaper printed in said village for two successive weeks, or posted up
in three public places in said village for ten days before the same shall be in
force and shall be admitted in evidence in any court in the state without
further proof; they shall be recorded by the village clerk in books provided
for that purpose.
   Sec. 20. The trustees shall examine, audit and adjust the account of the
village treasurer, village justice and all other agents and officers of the
village at such time and times as they shall deem proper and also at the end of
each year and before the terms for which the officers of said village were
elected or appointed shall have expired; and the trustees may require each and
every such officer or agent to exhibit his books, accounts and vouchers for
such examination and settlement and if any such officer or agent shall refuse
to comply with the orders of the village trustees in the discharge of his said
duty in pursuance of this section, it shall be the duties of said trustees of
said village to declare the office of said officer vacant without requiring any
further or other cause shown for such removal.
   Sec. 21. The trustees of said village shall have power to levy upon all
taxable property of said village taxes to provide for the current rent expenses
of the government and police of the village, for the opening, maintaining and
improvement of public grounds, sidewalks, and the construction of buildings,
and the improvements of general character, for constructing and maintaining
bridges and culverts, and opening, constructing and maintaining streets and
alleys, conducting reservoirs cistern, sewers, drains and street gutters,
grading streets, and for all purposes conducive to the good order, cleanliness
and protection of the inhabitants that may be necessary to carry out and
exercise the corporate powers herein granted; Provided that no tax in any one
year shall exceed the sum of one percent of the assessed valuation of all the
property taxable in the village of Farmington.
   Sec. 22. The trustees of said village shall cause to be transmitted to the
county auditor of the county on or before the first day of October of each
year, a statement of all taxes by them levied, and such taxes shall be
collected and the payment thereof enforced with and in like manner as in state
and county taxes are paid, and the payment thereof enforced, and the county
treasurer of said county shall pay such taxes over as fast as collected, to the
treasurer of the village of Farmington.
   Sec. 23. Every male inhabitant between the ages of 21 and 50 years in said
village shall annually pay a capitation or poll tax of two days work upon the
streets, highway or other improvements, within the said village of which the
said inhabitant is a resident: All persons liable to pay such capitation or
poll tax, may in lieu of work pay to the street commissioner $1.50 per day, and
the street commissioner shall pay all moneys so received to the village
treasurer, to become a part of the general fund of said village. Provided that
the same shall be levied by the village trustees, and collected by the street
commissioner in the manner provided by the laws of this state for the
collection of highway taxes in towns by overseers of highways.
   (Trustees to Control Highways)
   Sec. 24. The trustees of said village shall have the care, supervision and
control of all public highways, bridges, streets and alleys, public squares and
grounds within the limit of said village, and shall cause all streets which may
have been opened or graded to be kept open and in repair and free from
nuisances, and the trustees of said village or a majority of them shall have
power to lay out, alter, open and vacate public squares, streets, grounds,
highways and alleys, and to widen and straighten the same. Provided that
whenever it shall be required to take private property for the purpose above
stated the trustees shall appoint three disinterested commissioners to appraise
the damages for taking said private property, who shall give to the parties
interested a reasonable notice of the time and place, when and where they will
meet to hear reasons for and against the same. The commissioners shall file
their report of the amount of damages allowed with the village clerk of said
village, and the amount allowed shall be a charge against said village.
   Sec. 25. All actions brought to recover any penalty, under this act or the
ordinances, resolutions or by-laws made by the trustees shall be brought in the
corporate name of the village, and it shall be proper to complain that the
defendant is indebted for the amount of such penalty or damage, and to refer to
the act or by-law under which the same is claimed, and to give special matter
in evidence under it, and all civil actions and cases of misdemeanor shall be
under the direction and control of the trustees, and they shall have the power
to settle and compromise, prosecute and defend all such actions on the part of
the village In actions against the village, service of process shall be on the
president of said board, and the village shall have the right of appeal as
individuals have.
   Sec. 26. Such actions may be commenced in the district court of Dakota
county, or before any justice of the peace, except such actions as the village
justice has exclusive jurisdiction, without being required to give security for
costs in any act on; and in no case shall any judgment be rendered against such
village for costs in criminal actions and no person shall be an incompetent
judge, justice or juror, by reason of being an inhabitant of such village, in
an action to which the village shall be a party; every execution issued upon
any judgment recovered therein for any penalty or for the violation of any of
the provisions of this act, or any ordinance, by-law or resolution made by
virtue thereof, may contain a clause directing in the event of the nonpayment
of the judgment, the imprisonment of the defendant in the county jail of said
county of Dakota, not exceeding 30 days if the damages and penalty recovered by
such judgment shall be ten dollars or less, and not exceeding 60 days if such
damages or penalty exceed that sum; and the sheriff of said Dakota county shall
receive and take charge of such defendant committed to said jail.
   Sec. 27. Penalties and judgments shall be paid into the village treasury. In
all cases of the imposition of any fine or penalty, or of the rendering of any
judgment by the village justice, pursuant to any ordinance or by-law of said
village, as punishment for any offence, or for the violation of any ordinance
or by-law as aforesaid, the offender shall be forthwith committed to the
village jail of said village; or if there be no such jail suitable therefor,
then the common jail of the county of Dakota, and be there imprisoned for a
term not exceeding three months, in the discretion of the village justice,
unless the said fine or penalty be sooner paid or satisfied, and from the time
of arrest of any person or persons for any offence under such ordinances or by-
laws, when such person or persons shall neglect or refuse to furnish such
reasonable bail as may be required until the time of trial, may be confined in
said village jail, or in the common jail of the county, until the hour of
trial. Provided that all the expense of keeping such prisoners if not otherwise
paid shall be paid by the village of Farmington.
   Sec. 28. All acts and parts of acts relating to the incorporation of said
village of Farmington, or amendatory thereof, or providing for the election or
appointment of any officer thereof not provided for in this act are hereby
repealed. Provided that the present officers of said village shall continue to
discharge their respective duties as defined by this act, until their
successors are elected and qualified under this act. Provided further, that
said repeal shall not in any manner affect any act done, contract made, right
accrued, or any suit or prosecution commenced prior to this act, but every such
act, contract right or preceeding shall be valid and effectual as if this act
had not been passed.
   Sec. 29. No amendment to nor alteration of this charter shall have force of
law until submitted to and ratified by a majority vote of the qualified
electors of the said village of Farmington.
   Sec. 30. This act is hereby declared to be a public act.
   Sec. 31. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage.
   Approved February 23, 1881.
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
   I hereby certify that the within instrument is a true copy of the Charter of
the Village of Farmington, Dakota County, Minnesota, as copied from the Special
Laws of Minnesota for 1872, also the amendments thereto as copied from the
Special Laws of 1873, 1875, 1876, 1877 and 1879, and codified by special act of
1881.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bd10a7d24a84a8ba78cdccb76cc5dae02a21e744/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1673.gif] 
Subscribed and sworn to before me this Twelfth day of April, 1894.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/bd10a7d24a84a8ba78cdccb76cc5dae02a21e744/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1675.gif] 
 
Notes
1 * Editor's correction.
2 * Editor's correction.
3 * Editor's correction.
4 * Editor's correction.
5 * Editor's correction.
6 * Editor's correction.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATIVE
CHAPTER 1
CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Interpretations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon adoption by the Council this City Code is hereby declared to be and shall
hereafter constitute the official City Code of the City of Farmington. Any
reference to the number of any Section contained herein shall be understood to
refer to the position of the same under its appropriate Chapter and Title
heading, and to the general penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the
Section itself, when reference is made to this City Code by title in any legal
document.
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
This City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be
received without further proof in all courts and in all administrative
tribunals of this State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent
effect 1 .
 
Notes
1 1. M.S.A., Sec. 412.191 (5).
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending this City Code shall set forth the Title, Chapter and
Section number of the Section or Sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute a sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to Sterling
Codifiers, Inc., and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for
insertion in its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such
replacement page shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each
individual copy of the City Code within thirty (30) days from the date of its
final passage.
1-1-4: INTERPRETATIONS:
In the determination of the provisions of each Section of this Code the
following rules shall be observed:
   (A)   Intent to Defraud: Whenever an intent to defraud is required in order
to constitute an offense, it shall be sufficient if an intent appears to
defraud any person.
   (B)   Liability of Employers and Agents: When the provisions of any Section
of this City Code prohibits the commission of an act, not only the person
actually doing the prohibited act or omitting the directed act, but also the
employer and all other persons concerned with or in aiding or abetting the said
person shall be guilty of the offense described and liable to the penalty set
forth. (1970 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVINGS CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are referred to herein as being still
in force or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject
to the saving clauses contained in the following Section), from which are
excluded the following ordinances which are not hereby repealed: Tax levy
ordinances; appropriation ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and
annexations; franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights
to persons or corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the
execution of a contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances;
ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public
places; improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to
elections; ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by
or from the City; and all special ordinances.
1-2-2: PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroads or railroad crossings with streets and other
public ways, or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public
utilities shall be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by
virtue of the preceding Section, excepting as this City Code may contain
provisions for such matters, in which case this City Code shall be considered
as amending such ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only.
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former ordinance,
whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any offense
committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any penalty,
forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim arising
under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such offense
or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so
incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new ordinance takes
effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform to the
ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as practicable. If
any penalty, forfeiture or punishment be mitigated by any provision of a new
ordinance, such provision maybe, by the consent of the party affected, applied
to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes effect.
This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any action now
pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City herein repealed
and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this Code shall be
deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the same
provision; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue. or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (1970 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Definitions, General
1-3-1: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code they shall have the
meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the content makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another.
CODE: Unless otherwise specifically stated shall mean this code.
CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS: Whenever any word in any section of this code importing
the plural number is used, in describing or referring to any matters, parties,
or persons, any single matter, party, or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this code by words importing the singular
number only, or the masculine gender, several matters, parties, or persons and
females as well as males and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be included;
provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to any section
of this code which contains any express provision excluding such construction
or where the subject matter or content may be repugnant thereto.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Farmington".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the city for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
KNOWINGLY: Imports only a knowledge that the facts exist which brings the act
or omission within the provisions of this code. It does not require any
knowledge of the unlawfulness of such act or omission.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
MISDEMEANOR: Any offense deemed a violation of the provisions of this code
which is a lesser offense than a felony as defined by state law.
NEGLIGENT, NEGLECT, NEGLIGENCE AND NEGLIGENTLY: Imports a want of such
attention to the nature of probable consequences of the act or omission as a
prudent man ordinarily bestows in acting in his own concern.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive or obnoxious to the health and welfare of the
inhabitants of the city; or any act or thing repugnant to, or creating a hazard
to, or having a detrimental effect on the property of another person or to the
community.
OCCUPANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this code to a city officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the city of
Farmington".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: Applied to a building or land shall include any part owner, joint owner,
tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of such
building or land.
PERSON: Shall include the singular and the plural and shall also mean and
include any person, firm, corporation, association, partnership, or any other
form of association or organization.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things in small quantities
direct to the consumer.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public square, public
places and sidewalks.
TENANT: Applied to a building or land shall include any person who occupies the
whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
in quantity to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WILFULLY: When applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted,
implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission
referred to. It does not require any intent to violate law, or to injure
another, or to acquire an advantage.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond required by law, it shall be the
proper handwriting of such person, or in case he is unable to write, by his
proper mark. (1970 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: Penalty; General
1-4-2: Default; Labor (Rep. by Ord. 015-673, 1-20-2015)
1-4-3: License
1-4-4: Application
1-4-5: Liability Of Officers
1-4-6: Enforcement
1-4-7: Reinspection
1-4-1: PENALTY; GENERAL:
A violation of any section or of any provision of this Code shall be a penal
offense and subject to the penalties therefor. Any person convicted of such
violation shall be fined not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or by
imprisonment not to exceed ninety (90) days, or both, but in either case the
costs of prosecution may be added. To the extent authorized by law, the Council
may impose civil penalties and damages for violations of City ordinances or
seek to compel compliance with City ordinances through other lawful means.
(Ord. 015-673, 1-20-2015)
1-4-2: DEFAULT; LABOR:
(Rep. by Ord. 015-673, 1-20-2015)
1-4-3: LICENSE:
When a person is convicted of a violation of any section of this Code any
license previously issued to him by the City may be revoked by the court or by
the Council. (1970 Code)
1-4-4: APPLICATION:
The penalty provided in this chapter shall be applicable to every section of
this Code the same as though it were a part of each and every separate section.
Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this Code where any duty
is prescribed or obligation imposed, or where any act which is of a continuing
nature or declared to be unlawful, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. A
separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day such duty or
obligation remains unperformed or such act continues, unless otherwise
specifically provided in this Code.
In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created by
different clauses or sections of this Code the Prosecuting Officer may elect
under which to proceed; but not more than one (1) recovery shall be had against
the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of a
license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act constitutes a
breach of any section or provision of this Code and there shall be no fine or
penalty specifically declared for such breach, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply and a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day
during or on which a breach or violation occurs or continues. (1970 Code)
1-4-5: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this Code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (1970
Code)
1-4-6: ENFORCEMENT:
The Zoning Officer, Building Official, Public Works Director, part time Peace
Officers, Reserve Officers, Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, and Animal Control
Officer within their job descriptions or as otherwise authorized by ordinance
are expressly authorized to institute in the name of the City of Farmington any
appropriate actions, civil or criminal, including the issuance of a citation in
lieu of arrest or continued detention, against a person, firm or corporation
who violates any provision of this Code. Pursuit of one (1) remedy shall not
bar or act as a limitation on any other remedy of the City of Farmington may
have at law. (Ord. 088-197, 2-1-1988)
1-4-7: REINSPECTION:
City Code violations must be remedied by the property owner and re-inspected
for compliance by the City. The property owner must pay the cost recovery fee
for Code enforcement activities as established by ordinance. (Ord. 017-727, 6-
5-2017)
CHAPTER 5
COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: City Elections, Officers And Terms Of Office
1-5-2: Meetings
1-5-3: Publication Of Council Proceedings
1-5-4: Enactment Of Ordinances
1-5-5: Specific Powers Enumerated
1-5-1: CITY ELECTIONS, OFFICERS AND TERMS OF OFFICE:
   (A)   Composition: The city council shall consist of a mayor and four (4)
council members, all of whom shall be residents of the city and shall otherwise
be qualified to hold public office pursuant to the laws of the state of
Minnesota.
   (B)   Term Of Office: The mayor shall be elected to a four (4) year term of
office, and there shall be an election of the office of mayor every four (4)
years. Council members shall be elected for a four (4) year term of office with
two (2) council members being elected at each election. The municipal election
shall conform in each and every respect to the law of the state of Minnesota.
(Ord. 015-674, 1-20-2015)
1-5-2: MEETINGS:
The regular meetings of the council shall be held on the first and third
Mondays of each month at the hour of seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. in the council
chambers of the municipal building. When a regular meeting falls on the same
day as that of an official holiday the regular meeting shall automatically be
postponed to the following day. Special meetings may be called by the mayor or
any two (2) members of the council by writing, filed with the administrator/
clerk, who shall then notify all members of the time and place of meetings at
least twenty four (24) hours before said meeting.
The mayor, or in his absence the acting mayor, shall preside over the council.
All meetings of the council shall be open to the public. Three (3) members of
the council shall constitute a quorum, although a smaller number may adjourn
from time to time.
The council shall preserve order and establish rules for its own procedure.
(Ord. 015-674, 1-20-2015)
1-5-3: PUBLICATION OF COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS:
Minutes of all council proceedings shall be kept electronically in the office
of city clerk available for inspection by any person, during normal office
hours. Minutes will not be published in the official newspaper. (Ord. 015-674,
1-20-2015)
1-5-4: ENACTMENT OF ORDINANCES:
Every ordinance shall be enacted by a majority vote of all the members of the
council except where a larger number is required by law. It shall be signed by
the mayor, attested by the clerk and published once in the official newspaper.
Every ordinance shall be properly prepared and entered as a supplement to the
official city code book, one copy of which shall be kept on file in the office
of the clerk, and every ordinance shall be suitably entitled and shall be
substantially in the style: "The City Council of the City of Farmington
ordains:". (Ord. 015-674, 1-20-2015)
1-5-5: SPECIFIC POWERS ENUMERATED:
The council shall have, among others, the following specific powers 1 :
To procure the books to be kept by the city officers and such furniture,
property, stationery, printing and office supplies as are necessary for city
purposes.
To make such contracts as may be deemed necessary or desirable to make
effective any power possessed by the council. The city may purchase personal
property through a conditional sales contract and real property through a
contract for deed under which contracts the seller is confined to the remedy of
recovery of the property in case of nonpayment of all or part of the purchase
price, which shall be payable over a period of not to exceed five (5) years.
When the contract price of property to be purchased by contract for deed or
conditional sales contract exceeds one percent (1%) of the assessed valuation
of the city, the council may not enter into such a contract for at least ten
(10) days after publication in the official newspaper of a council resolution
determining to purchase property by such a contract; and, if before the end of
that time a petition asking for an election on the proposition signed by voters
equal to ten percent (10%) of the number of voters at the last regular city
election is filed with the clerk, the city may not enter into such a contract
until the proposition has been approved by a majority of the votes cast on the
question at a regular or special election.
To construct or acquire structures needed for city purposes, to control,
protect and insure the public buildings, property and records.
To provide for the prosecution or defense of actions or proceedings at law in
which the city may be interested and to also employ counsel for said purpose.
To lay out, open, change, widen or extend streets, alleys, parks, squares and
other public ways and grounds and to grade, pave, repair, control and maintain
the same; to establish and maintain drains, canals, and sewers; to alter, widen
or straighten water courses; to lay, repair or otherwise improve or discontinue
sidewalks, paths and crosswalks. It shall have power by ordinance to regulate
the use of streets and other public grounds, to prevent encumbrances or
obstructions, and to require the owners or occupants of buildings and the
owners of vacant lots to remove any snow, ice, dirt, or rubbish from the
sidewalks adjacent thereto and in default thereof to cause such encumbrances,
obstructions or substances to be removed and the cost to be assessed against
the property as a special assessment.
To provide for lighting the city streets, buildings or grounds by gas,
electricity or other means, and to contract with anyone engaged in the business
of furnishing gas or electric service for the supply of such service to the
city and its inhabitants.
To provide for and by ordinance regulate the setting out and protection of
trees, shrubs, and flowers in the city or upon its property.
To acquire by purchase, gift, devise, condemnation or otherwise, hold and
manage cemetery grounds, to enclose, lay out and ornament such grounds and sell
and convey lots therein.
To by ordinance regulate cemeteries and the disposal of dead bodies.
To provide and by ordinance regulate the use of wells, cisterns, reservoirs,
waterworks and other means of water supply.
To establish harbor and dock limits and by ordinance regulate the location,
construction and use of piers, docks, wharves, and boat houses on navigable
waters and fix rates of wharfage. The council may also construct and maintain
public docks and warehouses and by ordinance regulate their use.
To acquire, improve and operate and by ordinance regulate tourist camps and
automobile parking facilities.
To provide free musical entertainment.
To provide hospitals.
To establish a fire department, appoint its officers and members and prescribe
their duties, and to provide fire apparatus. It shall have power to adopt such
ordinances as are reasonable and expedient to prevent, control or extinguish
fires.
To name or rename the streets and public places of the city and to number or
renumber the lots and blocks of the city or any part thereof. It may make and
record a consolidated plat of the city.
To restrain or license and regulate auctioneers, transient merchants and
dealers, peddlers, solicitors and canvassers.
To license and regulate taxicabs and automobile rental agencies.
To regulate by ordinance the keeping of animals, to restrain their running at
large, to authorize their impounding and sale or summary destruction, and to
establish pounds and to license and regulate riding academies.
To prohibit or regulate by ordinance slaughterhouses; to prevent the bringing,
depositing, or leaving within the city of any unwholesome substance, to require
the owners or occupants of lands to remove unwholesome substances therefrom and
in default thereof to provide for its removal at the expense of the owner or
occupant, which expense shall be a lien upon the property and may be collected
as a special assessment; to provide for or regulate the disposal of sewage,
garbage, and other refuse, to provide for the cleaning of, and removal of
obstructions from, any waters in the city and to prevent their obstruction or
pollution. The council may establish a board of health with all the powers of
such boards under the general laws.
To define nuisances and provide for their prevention or abatement.
To regulate and prevent noise or other disorder.
To prevent or license and regulate by ordinance the exhibition of circuses,
theatrical performances, amusements or shows of any kind, and the keeping of
billiard tables and bowling alleys, to prohibit gambling and gambling devices,
and to license, regulate or prohibit devices commonly used for gambling
purposes.
To restrain and punish by ordinance, vagrants, prostitutes, and persons guilty
of lewd conduct and to punish drunkenness.
To license and regulate the operation of public dance halls and the conduct of
public dances.
To regulate by ordinance the construction of buildings.
To license and regulate restaurants and public eating houses.
To require by ordinance the owner of any property abutting on or adjacent to
any street in which sewer and water mains have been laid to install a toilet in
any dwelling or commercial establishment upon such property and connect it with
the sewer and water mains and in default thereof to provide for the
installation of such toilet and charging the cost against the property as a
special assessment.
To provide for the government and good order of the city, the suppression of
vice and immorality, the prevention of crime, the protection of public and
private property, the benefit of residence, trade and commerce, and the
promotion of health, safety, order, convenience, and the general welfare by
such ordinances not inconsistent with the constitution and laws of the United
States or of this state, as it shall deem expedient.
When the council has sole authority to decide whether the city should join a
special district or similar independent governmental body having taxing powers
within the city, the council shall have authority to submit to the voters at a
regular or special election the question of whether the city should join such a
body. The results of the election on the question so submitted shall be
advisory to the council only and shall have no binding effect upon its decision
to join or withdraw from the special district or similar independent body.
The council shall have full authority over the financial affairs of the city,
and shall provide for the collection of all revenues and other assets, the
auditing and settlement of accounts, and the safekeeping and disbursement of
public monies. (Ord. 015-674, 1-20-2015)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA § 412.221.
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS
SECTION:
1-6-1: Mayor
1-6-2: Clerk And Treasurer
1-6-3: Assessor (Rep. 1971)
1-6-4: Justices Of The Peace (Rep. by Ord. 071-36, 7-6-1971)
1-6-5: Compensation
1-6-1: MAYOR:
The mayor shall be the presiding officer at council meetings and shall perform
such duties as are required of him by the council, provisions of the city
charter and state law. (1970 Code; amd. Ord. 162, 10-5-1967)
1-6-2: CLERK AND TREASURER:
The clerk and treasurer shall perform the following duties and such other
duties as may be required of them by the provisions of the city charter and
this code.
   (A)   Treasurer:
      1.   Receive and safely keep all monies belonging to the city; keep an
accurate account of monies received and disbursed, and report from time to time
to the council in detail such receipts and expenditures.
      2.   Financial records in electronic format, in which he or she shall
enter all money transactions of the city including the dates and amounts of all
receipts and the person from whom the money was received and all orders drawn
with their payee and object.
      3.   Treasurer is also responsible for all duties listed in Minn. Stat. §
412,141.
      4.   The city council may designate the city administrator as treasurer
or deputy treasurer.
   (B)   Clerk:
      1.   Give the required notice of each regular and special election,
record the proceedings thereof, notify officials of their election or
appointment to office, certify to the county auditor all appointments and the
results of all city elections.
      2.   Keep the following records:
         a.   Minutes in electronic format, noting therein all proceedings of
the council;
         b.   Ordinances in electronic format, in which he or she shall record
at length all ordinances passed by the council;
      3.   Act as the clerk and bookkeeper of the city, shall be the custodian
of its seal and records, shall sign its official papers, shall post and publish
such notices, ordinances and resolutions as may be required and shall perform
such other appropriate duties as may be imposed upon him or her by the council.
      4.   Clerk is further responsible for all duties listed in Minn. Stat. §
412.151.
      5.   The city council may designate the city administrator as clerk or
deputy clerk.
(1970 Code; amd. Ord. 162, 10-5-1967; Ord. 015-675, 1-20-2015; Ord. 023-772, 1-
3-2023)
1-6-3: ASSESSOR:
(Rep. 1971)
1-6-4: JUSTICES OF THE PEACE:
(Rep. by Ord. 071-36, 7-6-1971)
1-6-5: COMPENSATION:
The compensation of elected and appointed officers of the city shall be as
provided from time to time by the council and as set forth in chapter 10 of
this title. (1970 Code)
CHAPTER 7
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-7-1: Job Title
1-7-2: Appointment, Qualifications
1-7-3: Powers And Duties, Limitations
1-7-4: Bond
1-7-1: JOB TITLE:
The office of the city administrator is hereby created in the city. (Ord. 097-
391, 3-17-1997)
1-7-2: APPOINTMENT, QUALIFICATIONS:
The city administrator shall be appointed by the city council on the basis of
his or her education, training, experience and administrative qualifications.
The city administrator shall be appointed for an indefinite period of time and
shall be paid for his or her services at such a salary as the city council
deems appropriate. The city council may designate some qualified person to
perform the duties of the city administrator during his or her absence or
disability. (Ord. 097-391, 3-17-1997)
1-7-3: POWERS AND DUTIES, LIMITATIONS:
The city administrator shall be the head of the department of administration
and the chief administrative officer of the city, and pursuant to this position
shall perform the duties set out in the following subsections:
   (A)   Supervise the management and operation of the department of
administration and coordinate the administration and management of all city
departments and divisions.
   (B)   Make ministerial decisions affecting such departments and divisions
and recommend procedures to the city council for adoption, keeping in mind that
the direction and objectives of the organization is to deliver city services in
a professional, competent and cost effective manner to the public.
   (C)   Develop and issue all administrative rules, regulations and procedures
necessary to ensure the proper functioning of and coordination with all
departments and divisions. Such rules, regulations and procedures shall be
consistent with federal and state laws, Minnesota statutes, city ordinances,
and city council policy. Said rules, regulations and procedures shall be
effective upon issuance and shall remain in effect until rescinded by the city
administrator or by express action of the city council.
   (D)   The city administrator shall submit to the city council at least
thirty (30) days prior to call by the county auditor, a single consolidated
budget document which shall include statements relating to projected revenue
and proposed expenditures to be made and obligations to be incurred by the city
in the forthcoming fiscal year.
   (E)   The city administrator shall be personnel officer for the city and
shall be responsible for the implementation of city personnel policy with the
exception of final hiring and dismissal, promotions, changes to job titles, and
changes to employee compensation adjustments, other than cost of living
adjustments and step increases, of city employees as specified below.
      1.   The head of the department or division shall report to the city
administrator and shall be held accountable for his or her department's or
division's performance. Deficiencies in individual staff and department or
division performance shall be addressed by the city administrator in an
appropriate manner within the city administrator's powers, without external
interference.
      2.   The city council's policies shall be implemented by appropriate
staff under the direction of the city administrator in a fair, impartial and
consistent manner within the city administrator's powers.
      3.   The city administrator shall make final recommendations to the city
council regarding hiring and dismissal of city employees. Promotions and
changes to job titles shall be submitted to the council for approval.
      4.   The city administrator may determine solutions to conflicts or
problems based on the city's needs, individual capabilities and available
resources regarding internal administration of city affairs, including, but not
limited to, staff assignments, grievances, job responsibilities and
responsibility for completing projects in a productive, efficient and cost
effective manner.
      5.   The city administrator shall submit all band changes, pay equity
changes, and other changes in employee compensation, except cost of living
adjustments and step increases that are consistent with adopted city policies,
to the council for approval.
   (F)   The city administrator shall advise the city council on all matters
pertaining to or affecting the operation of the city government and/or the city
proper. All issues shall be adequately researched and reviewed by staff and
presented to the city administrator prior to any formal presentation to the
city council.
   (G)   The city administrator shall be responsible for the enforcement of all
laws and ordinances within the city. The city administrator shall make
recommendations for necessary changes, amendments, or repeal of existing
ordinances to the city council.
   (H)   The city administrator shall be responsible for the application of
approved financial and accounting procedures and methods employed within
departments or divisions and shall recommend accounting procedures to be
adopted by all departments or divisions. The financial status of the city
including, but not limited to, problems and deficiencies with projects
authorized by the city council, shall be reported to the city council by the
city administrator when appropriate.
   (I)   The city administrator shall be directly responsible to the city
council for the faithful and satisfactory performance of his or her duties. The
city administrator shall be responsible for managing and overseeing the
organizational implementation of the city council's policies. The city
administrator shall attend all city council meetings, provided, however, that
he or she shall not have the right to vote. The city administrator shall
perform such additional duties and attend such committee meetings as the city
council may direct.
   (J)   The city administrator shall represent the city at all official or
semiofficial functions as may be directed by the city council.
   (K)   The city planner not the city administrator shall act as zoning
officer pursuant to section
 10-3-1 of this code.
   (L)   All purchases and acquisitions made for, or in the name of, the city,
other than those made from petty cash funds, shall be made under the direction
of the city administrator unless other-wise directed by the city council. All
such purchases made shall meet the conditions set forth in the following
subsections unless otherwise directed by the city council:
      1.   Before service, equipment, or supplies may be ordered, the head of
the department or division for which said service, equipment, or supplies are
ordered must recommend that the order be placed. Any service, equipment, or
supplies to be acquired must be necessary to the operation of the department
and must be within the limits established by the department budget.
      2.   Where equipment is ordered to replace obsolete, damaged, or worn out
equipment, as appropriate, the new equipment shall be as equal in design and
function to the equipment which it replaced.
      3.   All purchases and contracting for the city must comply with the
city's Purchasing Policy as it may be amended from time to time.
      4.   All claims resulting from orders placed by the city administrator
shall be audited for payment by the city council.
      5.   Where bidding is required, bidding procedures shall be consistent
with Minnesota statutes.
   (M)   The city council expressly retains its power to disaffirm any order or
contract entered into by the city administrator on behalf of the city in the
same manner and to the same extent that such power existed prior to the
adoption of this chapter. The city administrator shall serve as the section 504
coordinator relating to accessibility requirements for disabled persons.
   (N)   The city administrator shall maintain all city accounts and develop
all reports required by the law or requested by the city council, and shall
maintain and store the official city records of all revenue collections,
disbursements, and deposits. All books and records shall be maintained in
accordance with the generally accepted accounting principles and in accordance
with classifications prescribed by the state auditor's office whenever
practicable.
   (O)   The city administrator shall perform all other duties as are required
by state statute, this code, or as the city council shall direct.
   (P)   The city administrator shall be designated as the treasurer and deputy
clerk and shall assume all duties commensurate therewith as provided by
Minnesota statutes creating and defining an optional "A" type of government.
(Ord. 097-391, 3-17-1997; amd. Ord. 003-496, 7-7-2003; Ord. 012-649, 10-15-
2012; Ord. 023-772, 1-3-2023)
1-7-4: BOND:
The city administrator shall be bonded, at city expense, through a position
bond which will indemnify the city in the amount of twenty five thousand
dollars ($25,000.00). (Ord. 097-391, 3-17-1997)
CHAPTER 8
PERMANENT IMPROVEMENT REVOLVING FUND
(Rep. by Ord. 75-21, 11-17-1975)
CHAPTER 9
URBAN AND RURAL SERVICE DISTRICTS
(Rep. by Ord. 080-94, 9-2-1980)
CHAPTER 10
SALARIES, MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS
SECTION:
1-10-1: Salaries
1-10-2: Effective Date
1-10-3: Workers' Compensation
1-10-4: Effective Date
1-10-1: SALARIES:
   (A)   The monthly gross salaries for mayor and council shall be as follows:
 
Mayor          $670.00 per month
Council member 585.00 per month
 
   (B)   The monthly salary of the Mayor shall temporarily be reduced to five
hundred eight-five dollars ($585.00) until January 31, 2024. At the end of this
period, the Mayor’s monthly salary shall return to the amount stated in Section
1-10-1(A) pursuant to Minnesota Statute section 415.11 subd. 3.
(Ord. 008-579, 2-19-2008; amd. Ord. 021-754, 1-19-2021; Ord. 022-766, 1-3-2022;
Ord. 023-771, 1-3-2023)
1-10-2: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The above salaries shall become effective on January 1, 2009. (Ord. 008-579, 2-
19-2008)
1-10-3: WORKERS' COMPENSATION:
City council members, and all board and commission members shall be included in
the Minnesota workers' compensation coverage of the city. (Ord. 015-676, 1-20-
2015)
1-10-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The above coverage shall become effective on January 1, 1989. (Ord. 089-213, 2-
21-1989)
CHAPTER 11
CITY LIMITS
SECTION:
1-11-1: City Boundaries
1-11-2: Changes; Official Map
1-11-1: CITY BOUNDARIES:
The following lands have been and are hereby established as the corporate
limits of the City:
All of Section 31, Township 114 North, Range 19 W.
(Ord. 076-35, 3-15-1976)
1-11-2: CHANGES; OFFICIAL MAP:
Changes to the boundaries of the City such as annexation, incorporation,
detachment, merger, consolidation, dissolution or separation shall be effected
only in accordance with State law and the rules and regulations of the MMC.
Such changes shall be incorporated within the Official City Map.
   (A)   Annexations: The following annexations are hereby declared to have
been effected in accordance with State law and, where applicable, the rules and
regulations of the MMC:
      1.   Upon petition of the developer of Sunnyside Subdivision and by
Ordinance 130 adopted February 10, 1958, the following described lands are
hereby declared annexed:
Lots Three (3) and Four (4) of Alex Empey's Addition according to the plat
thereof on file and of record in the office of the Register of Deeds in and for
Dakota County, Minnesota; and the South Half of the Northeast Quarter of the
Northeast Quarter (S 1/2 of NE 1/4 of NE 1/4) of Section Six (6), Township One
Hundred Thirteen (113), Range Nineteen (19), according to the Government Survey
thereof; together with all roads and highways adjoining the premises aforesaid,
or either of them; excepting from said premises the four parcels described as
follows, to-wit: (1) The North One Hundred Fifty feet (N 150') of the East
Seventy Five feet (E 75') of said Lot Three (3); (2) The North One Hundred
Fifty feet (N 150') of the West Eighty Three feet (W 83') of said Lot Three
(3); (3) The North One Hundred Fifty feet (N 150') of the East Fourteen (E 14)
rods of said Lot Four (4); and (4) the West Six (W 6) rods of said Lot Four
(4).
      2.   Upon petition of the developer of Townsedge Shopping Center and by
Ordinance No. 131 adopted the 20th day of October, 1958, the following
described lands are hereby declared annexed:
All that part of the South Half of the Southeast Quarter (S 1/2 of SE 1/4) of
Section Thirty (30), Township One Hundred Fourteen 114), Range Nineteen (19),
described as follows, to-wit: Commencing at a point 40' North and 20' East of
the Northwest corner of Lot Four (4) in Block Two (2) of Bung's Addition;
thence North 200 feet; thence East 160 feet; thence South 200 feet; thence West
160 feet to the place of beginning according to the Government Survey thereof.
      3.   Upon petition of the developer of Sanford hospital and by Ordinance
No. 151 adopted the 1st day of April, 1963, the following described lands are
hereby declared annexed:
The North One-third of the Southwest One Quarter of the Northwest One Quarter
(N 1/3 of SW 1/4 of NW 1/4), Section Thirty-two (32), Township One Hundred
Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19), excepting therefrom the West 190 feet of
the South 140 feet thereof; all according to the Government Survey thereof.
      4.   Upon petition of private citizen Thurmes by Ordinance No. 155
adopted the 26th day of April 1965, and by order of the MMC under File No. A-
700 dated the 4th day of May, 1965, the following described lands are hereby
declared annexed:
The East Seventy Nine (E 79) feet of the West Eighty Three (W 83) feet of the
North One Hundred Fifty (N 150) feet of Lot Three (3) Alex. Empey's Addition to
Farmington, according to the plat thereof now on file and of record in the
office of the Register of Deeds within and for Dakota County, Minnesota;
together with all roads and highways adjoining the premises aforesaid.
      5.   Upon petition of the developer of Chateau Manor Subdivision by
Ordinance No. 158 adopted the 25th day of October, 1965, and by order of the
MMC under File No. A-871 dated the 11th day of November, 1965, the following
described lands are hereby declared annexed:
That part of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 6, Township 113 North, Range 19 West
lying South of the North 1320 feet as measured along the East and West lines of
said Northeast 1/4 described as follows: Beginning at a point on the South line
of said Northeast 1/4, distant 440 feet West to the Southeast corner thereof;
thence North parallel with the East line of said Northeast 1/4 99 feet; thence
East parallel with the South line thereof 240 feet thence North parallel with
the East line thereof 220 feet thence West parallel with the South line thereof
to a point 413 feet West of the West right of way line of State Trunk Highway
No. 3; thence North parallel with the East line of said Northeast 1/4 100 feet;
thence East parallel with the South line thereof 256 feet; thence North
parallel with the East line thereof 20 feet; thence East parallel with the
South line thereof to the West right of way line of said State Trunk Highway
No. 3; thence Northerly, Westerly and Northerly along said West right of way
line to the North line of that part of said Northeast 1/4 lying South of the
North 1320 feet; thence West along said North line to the Southwest corner of
Sunnyside Addition to Farmington; thence South parallel with the West line of
said Northeast 1/4 639.35 feet; thence West parallel with the North line
thereof to a line 654 feet east of and parallel with the West line of said
Northeast 1/4; thence South along said parallel line to the South line of said
Northeast 1/4; thence East along said South line to the point of beginning.
      6.   Upon petition of the developer of Henderson Subdivision, by
Ordinance No. 076-32 adopted the 15th day of March, 1976, and by order of the
MMC under File No. A-992 dated the 30th day of November, 1966, the following
described lands are hereby declared annexed:
The Southerly two-thirds (S. 2/3) of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest
Quarter (SE 1/4 of NW 1/4), the West 190 feet of the South 140 feet of the
North one-third (N. 1/3) of the Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (SW
1/4 of NW 1/4), the West Half of the Southwest Quarter (W 1/2 of SW 1/4), the
Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (SE 1/4 of SW 1/4) and all that part
of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (SW 11/4 of SE 1/4) except
the South 650 feet of the East 850 feet thereof, all in Section Thirty Two
(32), Township One Hundred Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19), together with
all public streets, roads and highways within or adjoining the premises
aforesaid.
      7.   Upon petition of Tillges Realty, by Ordinance No. 163 adopted the
25th day of January, 1968, and by order of the MMC under File No. A-1266 dated
the 11th day of March, 1968, the following described lands are hereby declared
annexed:
The West 1113.91 feet of the South one-half (S 1/2) of the Northwest one-
quarter (NW 1/4) of Section Five (5), Township One Hundred Thirteen (113),
Range Nineteen (19), except the South 643.5 feet and except the North 165.0
feet of the South 808.5 feet of the West 330.0 feet thereof, including fee
title to abutting highways and subject to easement for State Highway No. 3,
according to the Government Survey thereof, containing Fifteen (15) acres, more
or less.
      8.   Upon petition of the developer of the Restwell Motel by Ordinance
No. 165 adopted the 22nd day of October, 1968, and by order of the MMC under
File No. A-1429 dated the 14th day of December, 1972, the following described
lands are hereby declared annexed:
Commencing at a point on the South line of Section 30, Township 114, Range 19 ,
Dakota County, Minnesota, due North of the Northwest corner of Lot 4, Block 1,
Bung's Addition according to the recorded plat thereof; thence North 267 feet;
thence East on a line parallel to the South line of said Section 30 to the West
line of Minnesota Highway No. 3 right of way; thence Southerly along the
highway right of way to the South line of said Section 30; thence West along
the South line of said Section 30 to the point of beginning.
      9.   Upon petition of various landowners in Lakeville township by
Ordinance No. 071-1 adopted the 22nd day of February, 1971, and by order of the
MMC under File No. A-1672 dated the 16th day of November, 1970, the following
described lands are hereby declared annexed:
Section Thirteen (13); Section Fourteen (14); the East Half (E 1/2) of Section
Fifteen (15); the East Half (E 1/2) of Section Twenty-two (22); Section Twenty-
three (23); Section Twenty-four (24); Section Twenty-five (25); Section Twenty-
six (26); the East Half (E 1/2) of Section Twenty-seven (27); the East Half (E
1/2) of Section Thirty-four; Section Thirty-five (35); and Section Thirty-six
(36); all in Township One Hundred Fourteen (114), Range Twenty (20), according
to the Government Survey thereof.
      10.   Upon petition of Lindvig, Inc. by Ordinance No. 076-33 adopted the
15th day of March, 1976, and by order of the MMC under File No. A-2078 dated
the 8th day of February, 1972, the following described lands are hereby
declared annexed:
The West 605 feet of the South 216 feet of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) of
Section 29, Township 114, Range 19, according to the United States Government
Survey thereof, subject to easement for the State Trunk Highway, and containing
three acres, more or less.
      11.   Upon petition of private citizen Pool, by Ordinance No. 074-2,
adopted the 17th day of December, 1973, and by order of the MMC under File No.
A-2023 dated the 18th day of January, 1974, the following described lands are
hereby declared annexed:
That part of the South half of the Southeast Quarter of Section 30, Township
114, Range 19, described as follows, to-wit: Commencing at a point 40 feet
North of the Northwest corner of Lot 5, Block 2, Bung's Addition, thence West
80 feet, thence North 200 feet, thence East 80 feet, thence South 200 feet, to
the point of beginning, according to the Government Survey thereof.
      12.   Upon petition of private citizen Vincent, by Ordinance No. 074-
5 dated the 4th day of February, 1974, and by order of the MMC under File No.
A-1728 dated the 5th day of April, 1974, the following described lands are
hereby declared annexed:
East 75 feet of North 150 feet of Lot 3 Alex Empey's Addition to Farmington,
according to the recorded plat thereof. (Ord. 076-35, 3-15-76)
      13.   Upon receipt of petition for annexation by Robert and Lorraine
Adelmann, fee owners and Dakota Electric Association, option holders, dated
August 30, 1976, and upon receipt of approval and waiver from the Castle Rock
Town Board dated October 12, 1976, under Minnesota Municipal Board Docket
Number A-3010, the following described lands are hereby declared annexed to and
become a part of the Municipality of Farmington:
That part of the West half of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/4) of Section 6,
Township 113, Range 19, lying North of the railroad right of way through said
tract, Dakota County, Minnesota. (Ord. 076-46, 11-1-76)
      14.   Upon receipt of petition for annexation of Robert A. and Jeannine
Erickson, fee owners, dated April 7, 1980 and upon receipt of approval and
waiver by the Empire Town Board dated April 10, 1980, under Minnesota Municipal
Board Docket Number A-3693, the following described lands are hereby annexed to
and become a part of the Municipality of Farmington:
Commencing at a point 290.4 feet East of the West line of 5th Street extended
in the City of Farmington and 150 feet North of the South line of Section 30,
Township 114, Range 19; thence South and parallel with the West line of 5th
Street extended a distance of 128 feet; thence West parallel with the South
line of said Section 30 a distance of 4.9 feet; thence deflecting to the right
along a curve with a central angle of 16°120" and a radius of 263.03 feet a
distance of 74.98 feet; thence deflecting to the left on a curve with a central
angle of 2°18'51.76" and a radius of 307.03 feet a distance of 12.4 feet;
thence deflecting to the left on a curve with a central angle of 14°01'08.24"
and a radius of 307.03 feet a distance of 75.12 feet; thence West parallel with
the South line of Section 30 a distance of 117.02 feet; thence North along the
west line of 5th Street extended a distance of 105 feet; thence East along a
line parallel to the South line of Section 30 a distance of 290.4 feet which is
the point of beginning. (Ord. 081-101, 2-2-81)
      15.   Upon receipt of petition for annexation from Mr. and Mrs. O.T.
Nordseth, et al, dated January 13, 1981, and upon receipt of approval and
waiver from the Empire Townboard dated March 5, 1981, and upon adoption by the
City Council of the City of Farmington of Ordinance No. 081-113, on March 11,
1981, shown under Minnesota Municipal Board Docket No. A-3795, that there is
hereby annexed to the City of Farmington all the land lying and being in the
County of Dakota and State of Minnesota, described as follows, to-wit:
The Southwest Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (SW1/4 of SW1/4) of Section
Thirty (30), Township One Hundred Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19); the
Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (SE1/4 of SW1/4) of Section Thirty
(30), Township One Hundred Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19); and that part
of the Southwest Quarter of the Southeast Quarter (SW1/4 of SE1/4) of Section
Thirty (30), Township One Hundred Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19), lying
Westerly of the right-of-way of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul & Pacific
Railroad; containing 94 acres, more or less, according to the government survey
thereof together with all public roads and highways within or adjoining the
premises aforesaid. (Ord. 081-113, 3-11-81)
      16.   Upon receipt of petition for annexation of LaVerne and Steven
Frandrup, Contract for Deed buyers, dated September 4, 1981 and upon receipt of
approval and waiver by the Empire Town Board dated September 9, 1981 under
Minnesota Municipal Board Docket No. A-3854, the following described lands are
hereby annexed to and become a part of the Municipality of Farmington:
That part of the South half of the Southeast Quarter (S1/2 of SE1/4) of Section
Thirty (30), Township One Hundred Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19);
commencing 40' North of the Northwest corner of Lot Five (5), Block Two (2),
Bung's Addition to the City of Farmington; thence North 200 feet; thence East
80 feet; thence South 200 feet; thence West 80 feet to the place of beginning,
subject to existing easements. (Ord. 081-118, 9-8-81)
      17.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to Minnesota Statutes §414.033(5), to wit:
The South 200 feet of the West 80 feet of the East 940 feet of the South 1/2 of
the Southeast 1/4 of Section 30, Township 114, Range 19 West, all in Dakota
County, Minnesota. (Ord. 090-226, 1-16-90)
      18.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to Minnesota Statutes §414.033(5), to wit:
The East Eighty (E.80) feet of the following described tract of land, to wit:
All that part of the South Half of the Southeast Quarter (S1/2 of SE1/4) of
Section Thirty (30), Township One Hundred Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19),
described as follows: Commencing at a point 40 feet North of the Northwest
corner of Lot 5 (5) in Block Two (2) of Bung's Addition, thence North 200 feet,
thence East 320 feet, thence South 200 feet, thence West 320 feet to the place
of beginning. Subject to and together with an Easement over the South 40 feet
of the last described tract for road purposes. (Ord. 092-271, 7-6-92)
      19.   That part of the SE1/4 of the SE1/4 of Section 30, Twp 114, R19,
described as follows:
Beginning at intersection of W line of 5th Street, City of Farmington,
extended, and the Section line between Sections 30 and 31, Twp 114, R19, then
Easterly along the S line of said Section 30 a distance of 290.4 feet which is
the point of beginning then Easterly along the S line of said Section 30 to a
point which lies 940 feet W of the SE corner of said Section 30; thence N and
parallel to the E line of said Section 30 a distance of 200 feet; then W and
parallel to the S line of said Section 30 to a point which lies 200 feet N of
the point of beginning thence S 200 feet to the point of beginning except any
portion of the above described property lying within all that part of S1/2 of
SE1/4 of Section 30, Twp 114, R19, described as follows, to wit: Commencing at
a point 40 feet N and 80 feet W of the NW corner of Lot 5, Block 2, Bung's
Addition, thence W 80 feet, thence N 200 feet, thence E 80 feet, thence S 200
feet to the place of beginning. (Ord. 092-272, 7-6-92)
      20.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to Minnesota Statutes 414.033(5), to wit:
PARCEL #07-00600-013-27
The West Half of the Northwest Quarter (W1/2 of NW1/4) of Section 6, Township
113 North, Range 19 West, Dakota County, Minnesota EXCEPTING therefrom railroad
right of way and ALSO EXCEPTING a tract of land described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the East line of the said West Half of the
Northwest Quarter (W1/2 of NW1/4) and the Southeasterly right of way of the
Milwaukee Railroad, said point lying 1,392.40 feet South of the Northeast
corner of the said West Half of the Northwest Quarter (W1/2 of NW1/4); thence
South along said East line a distance of 320.0 feet; thence deflecting to the
right at an angle of 104o 44' 30" a distance of 393.50 feet to a point on the
Southeasterly right of way; thence Northeasterly along said right of way a
distance of 440.0 feet, more or less, to the point of beginning. ALSO EXCEPTING
therefrom a tract of land North and West of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul
and Pacific Railroad right of way, already annexed to the City of Farmington.
Subject to road and utility easements of record, if any. Containing in all
75.43 acres, more or less according to the Government Survey thereof.
PARCEL #07-00600-010-28
All that part of the East 1/2 of the Northwest Quarter of Section 6, T 113, R
19, lying west of the right of way of the Iowa and Minnesota Division of the
Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul Railway Company and south of the right of way of
the Farmington and Mankato Line of said Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul Railway
Company as are now located across said lands, being about twelve acres more or
less, being the same lands conveyed to the within Grantee by William Nicolay
and Belle Nicolay his wife by Warranty Deed dated October 1st, 1901 and
recorded on the 8th day of October, 1901, in Book 70 of Deeds; on page 447 of
the records of Dakota County, State of Minnesota (Recorded April 29, 1905, in
Book 117, Page 320).
A strip, belt, or piece of land, one hundred feet wide, extending across in the
northeasterly and southwesterly direction of all that part of the East half of
the Northwest Quarter of Section 6, Township 113, Range 19, which lies west of
the right of way of the Iowa and Minnesota Division of the Chicago, Milwaukee,
St. Paul and Pacific Railway Company. The center of said strip being marked on
the ground by a line of stakes, marked (L) together with the strip of land
twenty five feet wide adjoining the right of way of said Iowa and Minnesota
Division of said Railway, extending from the North line of said premises herein
before described to the point where said right of way running northeasterly and
southwesterly leaves said main line of said Railway, all in Dakota County,
Minnesota. (Recorded October 8, 1901, in Book 110, Page 303).
PARCEL #07-00600-010-29
A strip, belt, or piece of land one hundred feet wide, extending across from
the East side to the West side of the west Half of the West Half of the
Northwest Quarter of Section 6, Township 113, Range 19, in the County of
Dakota, State of Minnesota. Hereby conveying a strip of land fifty feet wide on
each side of the centerline of the Railway of said Company, as now located and
established across said land. (Recorded June 16th, 1902, in Book 1902, in Book
109, Page 155).
A strip, belt or piece of land, one hundred feet wide, extending across from
the East side to the West side of the East Half of the West Half of the
Northwest Quarter of Section 6, Township 113, Range 19, in the County of
Dakota, State of Minnesota. Hereby conveying a strip of land fifty feet wide on
each side of the centerline of the Railway of said Company, as now located and
established across said land. (Recorded June 16th, 1902, in Book 109, Page
157).
A tract of land in the West Half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 6,
Township 113, Range 19, described as follows: Beginning at the intersection of
the East line of said West Half of the Northwest Quarter and the southeasterly
right of way line of the Milwaukee Railroad, said point lying 1,392.4 feet
south of the Northeast corner of said West Half of the Northwest Quarter;
thence south and along said East line a distance of 320.0 feet; thence
deflecting to the right at an angle of 104 degrees 44 minutes 30 seconds a
distance of 393.5 feet to a point on said southeasterly right of way; thence
northeasterly along said right of way a distance of 440 feet more or less to
the point of beginning. Containing 1.32 acres. (Recorded February 7, 1966, in
Book 264, Page 351). (Ord. 092-281, 8-17-92)
      21.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to Minnesota Statutes section 414.033:
That part of the NW 1/4 of Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, Dakota County,
Minnesota, described as follows: Commencing at the NW corner of said NW 1/4 of
Section 32; thence South 89o50'12" East (assumed bearing) along the North line
of said NW 1/4 of Section 32 a distance of 59.45 feet; thence South 1o38'57"
West a distance of 500.32 feet to a point on the southerly right of way line of
the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company and the easterly
right of way line of State Trunk Highway No. 3, said southerly right of way
line being 50.00 feet perpendicularly southerly of and parallel to the main
track of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company as now
located which is the point of beginning, then North 74o15'36" East along said
south right of way line of railroad a distance of 1430.00 feet; thence South
15o44'24" East a distance of 466.00 feet; thence South 74o15'36" West a
distance of 717.58 feet; thence North 87o35'18" West a distance of 819.20 feet,
more or less, to the east right of way line of said State Trunk Highway No. 3;
thence North 1o38'57" East along said east right of way line a distance of
220.88 feet to the point of beginning, according to the Government Survey
thereof.
This is Abstract Property.
Plat and Parcel No. 12-03200-010-80.
(Ord. 093-299, 2-16-93)
      22.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to Minnesota Statutes § 414.033, to wit:
The SE 1/4 of the NW 1/4 of Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, EXCEPT the N.
66 feet thereof and also EXCEPT the S. 435.60 feet of the N. 501.60 feet of the
East 300 feet thereof. Containing 35 acres, more or less.
(Ord. 093-301, 4-5-93)
      23.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to Minnesota Statutes § 414.033, to wit:
The NE 1/4 of the SW 1/4 of Section 32, Township 114, Range 19. Containing 40
acres, more or less.
(Ord. 093-302, 4-5-93)
      24.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to Minnesota Statutes § 414.033, to wit:
         a.   The West 350 feet of the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of the
Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two (32), Township One Hundred
Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19) West, Dakota County, Minnesota.
         b.   The West 350 feet of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) of the
Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two (32), Township One Hundred
Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19) West, Dakota County,Minnesota.
         c.   The South 435.6 feet of the North 501.60 feet of the East 100.00
feet of the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of
Section Thirty-Two, Township One Hundred Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19)
according to the government survey thereof containing 1.0 acres.
         d.   The West 350 feet of the South Half (S 1/2) of the Northeast
Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two (32), Township One Hundred Fourteen
(114) North, Range Nineteen (19) West Dakota County, Minnesota.
         e.   The East 400 feet of the West 1828.3 feet of the Southeasterly
100 feet of that part of the South Half of the Southwest Quarter (S 1/2 of SW
1/4) lying Northerly of the right of way line of the Chicago, Milwaukee and
Saint Paul Railroad, in Section Twenty-Nine (29), Township One Hundred Fourteen
(114) North, Range Nineteen (19) West Dakota County, Minnesota.
         f.   That part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (SE
1/4 of SW 1/4) commencing at a point 665 feet north and 1828.3 feet East of the
Southwest corner of Section Twenty- Nine (29), Township One Hundred Fourteen
(114) Range Nineteen (19); thence south and parallel with the Section line 554
feet to the northerly line of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul railway right
of way as now located; thence Easterly along said right of way to a point 200'
West of the East line of said quarter; Thence North 500 feet parallel with the
East line of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) thence easterly parallel with the
Northerly line of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul Railroad right of way to
the East line of the SW 1/4; thence North 484.28 feet along the East line;
thence West on the Quarter line at 416.24 feet; thence South 649.90 feet.
         g.   The West 100 feet of the East 133 feet of the south half of the
North half and the West 150 feet of the East 188 feet of the North half of the
North half of the Southwest Quarter (N 1/2 of the SW 1/4) of Section Twenty-
Nine (29), Township One Hundred Fourteen (114) Range Nineteen (19), according
to the United States Government Survey thereof, Dakota County, Minnesota.
         h.   That part of the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) Section Twenty- Nine
(29), Township One Hundred Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19) described as
follows: Beginning at the centerline of County State Aid Highway Number 66 and
the West line of the Northeast Quarter of Section 29; thence Southerly 605 feet
along the West line of the Northeast Quarter of Section 29; to a point 60 feet
North of the South Line of the Northeast Quarter of Section 29; thence at right
angles east 133 feet; thence North 295 feet parallel with the West line of the
Northeast Quarter; thence 690 feet east parallel with the South line of the
Northeast 1/4 thence North 490 feet more or less parallel with the West line of
the Northeast Quarter; to the centerline of CSAH 66; thence Southwesterly along
the centerline of CSAH 66 to the point of beginning and there terminating,
according to the United States Government Survey thereof and situated in Dakota
County, Minnesota.
         i.   That part of the West 750 feet of the West half (W 1/2) of the
Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section Twenty-Nine (29), Township One Hundred
Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19) lying south of the North 906.6 feet and
lying North of the center line of CSAH No. 66; EXCEPT that part thereof
described as follows: commencing at a point on the North quarterline of said
Section 29 which bears south 180 degrees, 1709.07 feet from the North Quarter
corner of said Section 29; thence North 77 degrees 50 minutes East a distance
of 511.33 feet; thence South parallel with the North/South Quarter line of said
Section 29, 201.00 feet to the centerline of CSAH 66; thence westerly along
said centerline to the North/South quarter line of said Section 29; thence
North to the North quarter corner thereof and there terminating. Also EXCEPT
the following described parcel: commencing at a point on the North quarterline
of said Section 29 which bears South 180 degrees, 906.6 feet from the North
quarter corner of said Section 29; thence North 90 degrees East a distance of
311.38 feet; thence Southwesterly a distance of 381.92 feet to a point in the
North quarterline of said Section 29 which bears south 180 degrees, 1134.34
feet South of the North quarter corner of said Section 29; thence North along
said North quarterline to the point of beginning. Also EXCEPT any part thereof
which lies within the following tract: That part of the SW 1/4 of the NE 1/4 of
said Section 29 described as follows: Commencing at a point on the North
quarterline of said Section 29, which point bears South 180 degrees 00 minutes,
1709.09 feet from the North quarter corner of said Section 29; thence North 77
degrees 50 minutes East a distance of 413.51 feet to the point of beginning of
the tract to be described; thence South and parallel with said North quarter
line a distance of 208.00 feet more or less to the centerline of CSAH No. 66;
thence North 77 degrees 50 minutes East along said centerline a distance of
110.00 feet, thence North at right angles a distance of 204.00 feet; thence in
a Westerly direction 98.00 feet more or less to the point of beginning.
         j.   That part of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE
1/4 of NW 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two (32), Township One Hundred Fourteen (114)
Range Nineteen (19) Dakota County, Minnesota described as follows: Commencing
at the Northeast corner of said NE 1/4 of NW 1/4; thence southerly along the
east line of said NE 1/4 of the NW 1/4 a distance of 245.36 feet more or less,
to its intersection with a line parallel with and 516.00 feet southerly of, as
measured at right angles to the centerline of the main track of the Chicago,
Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad; thence continuing South along said
East line a distance of 379.50 feet to the point of beginning of the line to be
described; Thence deflecting 90 degrees right and Westerly a distance of
1044.79 feet; hereinafter referred to as Point "A"; thence deflecting 90
degrees right and Northerly a distance of 85.28 feet, more or less to its
intersection with said line which is parallel with and 516.00 feet southerly
of, as measured at right angles to the centerline of said railroad, thence
Southwesterly along said parallel line a distance of 288.51 feet more or less
to the West line of said NE 1/4 of NW 1/4, thence South along said West line
110 feet, thence Northeasterly 288 feet more or less to Point "A"; thence
Easterly 400 feet along the North line of the property, thence deflecting 90
degrees right and south a distance of 71.2 feet, thence along a line
Southeasterly 650.4 feet more or less to its intersection with the East line of
said NE 1/4 of NW 1/4; thence north along said line 156.80 feet to the point of
beginning, together with the property South and East of County Road 72.
         k.   That part of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) of Section Twenty-
Nine (29) Township One Hundred Fourteen (114) Range Nineteen (19) and that part
of the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two (32) Township (114)
Range (19) Dakota County, Minnesota described as follows: Commencing at the
Northwest corner of said Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two (32)
thence South 89 degrees 58 minutes 38 seconds East, assumed bearing along the
North line thereof 59.46 feet, thence South 01 degrees 30 minutes 31 seconds
West 500.32 feet to the intersection of the East right of way line of State
Trunk Highway 3 and the Southerly right of way line of railroad, said Southerly
right of way line being 50.00 feet at right angles to the centerline of the
main track of said railroad, thence North 74 degrees 07 minutes 10 seconds East
along said southerly railroad right of way line 1430.00 feet to the point of
beginning; thence South 15 degrees 52 minutes 50 seconds East 466.00 feet,
thence North 74 degrees 07 minutes 10 seconds East, parallel with and 516.00
feet Southerly of said main track centerline, 190.6 feet, then West 136.3 feet,
thence North 01 degrees 30 minutes 31 seconds East 533.8 feet more or less to
the North line of the railroad; thence South 74 degrees 07 minutes 10 seconds
West along said Northerly railroad right of way line 182 feet; thence Southerly
to the point of beginning and there terminating. Subject to a permanent
easement for ingress and egress described as follows: That part of the
Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) of Section Twenty-Nine (29) Township One Hundred
Fourteen (114) Range Nineteen (19) and that part of the NW 1/4 of Section 32
Township One Hundred Fourteen (114) Range Nineteen (19) Dakota County,
Minnesota described as follows: Commencing at the Northwest corner of said
Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two (32) thence South 89 degrees
58 minutes 38 seconds East, assumed bearing along the North line thereof 59.46
feet, thence South 01 degrees 30 minutes 31 seconds West 500.32 feet to the
intersection of the East right of way line of State Trunk Highway No. 3 and the
Southerly right of way line of railroad, said Southerly right of way line being
50.00 feet at right angles to the center line of the main track of said
railroad, thence North 74 degrees 07 minutes 10 second East along said
southerly railroad right of way line 1430.00 feet; thence North 01 degrees 30
minutes 31 seconds East 25 feet to the point of beginning; thence North 74
degrees 07 minutes 10 seconds East 182 +/- feet; Thence North 01 degrees 30
minutes 31 seconds East 50 feet; thence South 74 degrees 07 minutes 10 seconds
West 182 +/- feet; thence South 01 degrees 30 minutes 31 seconds West 50 feet
to the point of beginning and there terminating.
         l.   That part of the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two
(32), Township One Hundred Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19), Dakota County,
Minnesota, described as follows: Commencing at the Northeast corner of said
Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4); thence Southerly along the East line thereof a
distance of 245.36 feet, more or less to the intersection with a line parallel
with and 516.0 feet Southerly of, as measured at right angles to, the
centerline of the main track of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific
Railroad; thence continuing Southerly along said East line a distance of 379.5
feet; thence deflecting 90 degrees right and Westerly a distance of 466 feet to
the point of beginning; thence continuing Westerly a distance of 578.79 feet;
thence deflecting 90 degrees right and Northerly a distance of 85.20 feet more
or less, to the intersection with said line which is parallel with and 516.0
feet southerly of, as measured at right angles to the main track of the
Railroad; thence North 74 degrees 07 minutes 10 seconds East, 140.6 feet along
said line parallel with the Railroad; thence Easterly 342.5 feet to a point 120
feet North of the south line of the property; thence Southeast 111.80 feet more
or less to a point 60 feet north of the point of beginning; thence South to the
point of beginning and there terminating.
         m.   The West 150 feet of the South 190 feet of the North half of the
Northeast Quarter of Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, Dakota County,
Minnesota. (Ord. 094-337, 10-17-1994)
      25.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to Minnesota Statutes § 414.033, to wit:
         a.   The West 350 feet of the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of the
Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of Section Thirty Two (32), Township One Hundred
Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19) West, Dakota County, Minnesota.
         b.   The West 350 feet of the South Half (S 1/2) of the Northeast
Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, Dakota County,
Minnesota.
         c.   That part of the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4), Section 29, Township
114, Range 19, described as follows: Beginning at the Southwest corner of said
Northeast Quarter of Section 29; thence North along the West line of said
Northeast Quarter 60 feet; thence at right angles East 50 feet; thence at right
angles East 50 feet; thence at right angles South 60 feet parallel with the
West line of said Northeast Quarter; thence at right angles West 50 feet along
the South line of said Northeast Quarter of Section 29 to the point of
beginning and there terminating. Subject to a permanent easement for ingress
and egress described as follows: That part of the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4),
Section 29, Township 114, Range 19 described as follows: Beginning at the
Southwest corner of said Northeast Quarter of Section 29; thence North along
the West line of said Northeast Quarter 60 feet; thence at right angles East 50
feet; thence at right angles South 60 feet parallel with the West line of said
Northeast Quarter; thence at right angles West 50 feet along the South line of
said Northeast Quarter of Section 29 to the point of beginning and there
terminating, subject to existing road easements, according to the recorded plat
thereof, and situated in Dakota County, Minnesota. (Ord. 094-341, 12-5-94)
      26.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to Minnesota Statutes § 414.033, to wit:
         a.   The West 350 feet of the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of the
Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two (32), Township One Hundred
Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19) West, Dakota County, Minnesota.
         b.   The West 350 feet of the South Half (SW 1/2) of the Northeast
Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two (32), Township One Hundred Fourteen
(114), Range Nineteen (19), Dakota County, Minnesota.
         c.   The South 435.6 feet of the North 501.60 feet of the East 100.00
feet of the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of
Section Thirty-Two, Township One Hundred Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19)
Dakota County, Minnesota according to the government survey thereof containing
1.0 acres.
         d.   The East 400 feet of the West 1828.3 feet of the Southeasterly
100 feet of that part of the South Half of the Southwest Quarter (S 1/2 of SW
1/4) lying Northerly of the right of way line of the Chicago, Milwaukee and
Saint Paul Railroad, in Section Twenty-Nine (29), Township One Hundred Fourteen
(114) North, Range Nineteen (19) West Dakota County, Minnesota.
         e.   That part of the Southeast Quarter of the Southwest Quarter (SE
1/4 of SW 1/4) commencing at a point 665 feet north and 1828.3 feet East of the
Southwest corner of Section Twenty- Nine (29), Township One Hundred Fourteen
(114) Range Nineteen (19), Dakota County, Minnesota; thence south and parallel
with the Section line 554 feet to the northerly line of the Chicago, Milwaukee
and St. Paul railway right of way as now located; thence Easterly along said
right of way to a point 200' West of the East line of said quarter; Thence
North 500 feet parallel with the East line of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4)
thence easterly parallel with the Northerly line of the Chicago, Milwaukee and
St. Paul Railroad right of way to the East line of the SW 1/4; thence North
484.28 feet along the East line; thence West on the Quarter line 416.24 feet;
thence South 649.90 feet; thence West 376.44 feet to the place of beginning.
         f.   The West 100 feet of the East 133 feet of the south half of the
North half and the West 150 feet of the East 183 feet of the North half of the
North half of the Southwest Quarter (N 1/2 of the SW 1/4) of Section Twenty-
Nine (29), Township One Hundred Fourteen (114) Range Nineteen (19), according
to the United States Government Survey thereof, Dakota County, Minnesota.
         g.   That part of the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) Section Twenty- Nine
(29), Township One Hundred Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19) described as
follows: Beginning at the centerline of County State Aid Highway Number 66 and
the West line of the Northeast Quarter of Section 29; thence Southerly 605 feet
along the West line of the Northeast Quarter of Section 29 to a point 60 feet
North of the South Line of the Northeast Quarter of Section 29; thence at right
angles east 133 feet; thence North 295 feet parallel with the West line of the
Northeast Quarter; thence 690 feet east parallel with the South line of the
Northeast 1/4 thence North 490 feet more or less parallel with the West line of
the Northeast Quarter; to the centerline of CSAH 66; thence Southwesterly along
the centerline of CSAH 66 to the point of beginning and there terminating,
according to the United States Government Survey thereof and situated in Dakota
County, Minnesota.
         h.   That part of the Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section 29,
Township 114, Range 19 described as follows: Beginning at the Southwest corner
of said Northeast Quarter of Section 29; thence North along the West line of
said Northeast Quarter 60 feet; thence at right angles East 50 feet; thence at
right angles South 60 feet parallel with the West line of said Northeast
Quarter; thence at right angles West 50 feet along the South line of said
Northeast Quarter of Section 29 to the point of beginning and there
terminating, situated in Dakota County, Minnesota.
         i.   That part of the West 750 feet of the West half (W 1/2) of the
Northeast Quarter (NE 1/4) of Section Twenty-Nine (29), Township One Hundred
Fourteen (114), Range Nineteen (19) lying south of the North 906.6 feet and
lying North of the center line of CSAH No. 66; EXCEPT that part thereof
described as follows: commencing at a point on the North quarterline of said
Section 29 which bears south 180 degrees, 1709.07 feet from the North Quarter
corner of said Section 29; thence North 77 degrees 50 minutes East a distance
of 511.33 feet; thence South parallel with the North/South Quarter line of said
Section 29, 201.00 feet to the centerline of CSAH 66; thence westerly along
said centerline to the North/South quarter line of said Section 29; thence
North to the North quarter corner thereof and there terminating. Also EXCEPT
the following described parcel: commencing at a point on the North quarterline
of said Section 29 which bears South 180 degrees, 906.6 feet from the North
quarter corner of said Section 29; thence North 90 degrees East a distance of
311.38 feet; thence Southwesterly a distance of 381.92 feet to a point in the
North quarterline of said Section 29 which bears south 180 degrees, 1134.34
feet South of the North quarter corner of said Section 29; thence North along
said North quarterline to the point of beginning. Also EXCEPT any part thereof
which lies within the following tract: That part of the SW 1/4 of the NE 1/4 of
said Section 29 described as follows: Commencing at a point on the North
quarterline of said Section 29, which point bears South 180 degrees 00 minutes,
1709.07 feet from the North quarter corner of said Section 29; thence North 77
degrees 50 minutes East a distance of 413.51 feet to the point of beginning of
the tract to be described; thence South and parallel with said North quarter
line a distance of 208.00 feet more or less to the centerline of CSAH No. 66;
thence North 77 degrees 50 minutes East along said centerline a distance of
110.00 feet, thence North at right angles a distance of 204.00 feet; thence in
a Westerly direction 98.00 feet more or less to the point of beginning.
         j.   That part of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE
1/4 of NW 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two (32), Township One Hundred Fourteen (114)
Range Nineteen (19) Dakota County, Minnesota described as follows: Commencing
at the Northeast corner of said NE 1/4 of NW 1/4; thence southerly along the
east line of said NE 1/4 of the NW 1/4 a distance of 245.36 feet more or less,
to its intersection with a line parallel with and 516.00 feet southerly of, as
measured at right angles to the centerline of the main track of the Chicago,
Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad; then continuing South along said East
line a distance of 379.50 feet; Thence deflecting 90 degrees right and Westerly
a distance of 1044.79 feet to the point of beginning of the tract to be
described hereinafter referred to as Point "A"; thence deflecting 90 degrees
right and Northerly a distance of 85.28 feet, more or less to its intersection
with said line which is parallel with and 516.00 feet southerly of, as measured
at right angles to the centerline of said railroad, thence Southwesterly along
said parallel line a distance of 288.51 feet more or less to the West line of
said NE 1/4 of NW 1/4, thence South along said West line 110 feet, thence
Northeasterly 288 feet more or less to Point "A" and there terminating; and
that part of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE 1/4 of NW 1/4)
of Section Thirty-two (32) Township (114) Range (19) Dakota County, Minnesota,
described as follows: Commencing at the Northeast corner of said NE 1/4 of NW
1/4; thence southerly along the east line of said NE 1/4 of the NW 1/4 a
distance of 245.36 feet more or less, to its intersection with a line parallel
with and 516.00 feet southerly of, as measured at right angles to the
centerline of the main track of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific
Railroad; then continuing South along said East line a distance of 379.50 feet
to the point of beginning of the tract to be described; Thence deflecting 90
degrees right and Westerly to a point 400 feet east of Point A; thence
deflecting 90 degrees right and South a distance of 71.2 feet, thence along a
line Southeasterly 650.4 feet more or less to its intersection with the East
line of said NE 1/4 of NW 1/4; thence north along said line 156.80 feet to the
point of beginning and there terminating, together with the property South and
East of County Road 72.
         k.   That part of the Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) of Section Twenty-
Nine (29) Township One Hundred Fourteen (114) Range Nineteen (19) and that part
of the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two (32) Township (114)
Range (19) Dakota County, Minnesota described as follows: Commencing at the
Northwest corner of said Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two (32)
thence South 89 degrees 58 minutes 38 seconds East, assumed bearing along the
North line thereof 59.46 feet, thence South 01 degrees 30 minutes 31 seconds
West 500.32 feet to the intersection of the East right of way line of State
Trunk Highway 3 and the Southerly right of way line of railroad, said Southerly
right of way line being 50.00 feet at right angles to the centerline of the
main track of said railroad, thence North 74 degrees 07 minutes 10 seconds East
along said southerly railroad right of way line 1430.00 feet to the point of
beginning; thence South 15 degrees 52 minutes 50 seconds East 466.00 feet,
thence North 74 degrees 07 minutes 10 seconds East, parallel with and 516.00
feet Southerly of said main track centerline, 190.6 feet, then West 136.3 feet,
thence North 01 degrees 30 minutes 31 seconds East 533.8 feet more or less to
the North line of the railroad; thence South 74 degrees 07 minutes 10 seconds
West along said Northerly railroad right of way line 182 feet; thence Southerly
to the point of beginning and there terminating. Subject to a permanent
easement for ingress and egress described as follows: That part of the
Southwest Quarter (SW 1/4) of Section Twenty-Nine (29) Township One Hundred
Fourteen (114) Range Nineteen (19) and that part of the Northwest Quarter (NW
1/4) of Section Thirty-two (32) Township (114) Range (19) Dakota County,
Minnesota described as follows: Commencing at the Northwest corner of said
Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two (32) thence South 89 degrees
58 minutes 38 seconds East, assumed bearing along the North line thereof 59.46
feet, thence South 01 degrees 30 minutes 31 seconds West 500.32 feet to the
intersection of the East right of way line of State Trunk Highway No. 3 and the
Southerly right of way line of railroad, said Southerly right of way line being
50.00 feet at right angles to the centerline of the main track of said
railroad, thence North 74 degrees 07 minutes 10 second East along said
southerly railroad right of way line 1430.00 feet; thence North 01 degrees 30
minutes 31 seconds East 25 feet to the point of beginning; thence North 74
degrees 07 minutes 10 seconds East 182 +/- feet; Thence North 01 degrees 30
minutes 31 seconds East 50 feet; thence South 74 degrees 07 minutes 10 seconds
West 182 +/- feet; thence South 01 degrees 30 minutes 31 seconds West 50 feet
to the point of beginning and there terminating.
         l.   That part of the Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4) of Section Thirty-Two
(32), Township (114), Range (19), Dakota County, Minnesota, described as
follows: Commencing at the Northeast corner of said Northwest Quarter (NW 1/4);
thence Southerly along the East line thereof a distance of 245.36 feet, more or
less to the intersection with a line parallel with and 516.0 feet Southerly of,
as measured at right angles to, the centerline of the main track of the
Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad; thence continuing Southerly
along said East line a distance of 379.5 feet; thence deflecting 90 degrees
right and Westerly a distance of 466 feet to the point of beginning; thence
continuing Westerly a distance of 578.79 feet; thence deflecting 90 degrees
right and Northerly a distance of 85.20 feet more or less, to the intersection
with said line which is parallel with and 516.0 feet southerly of, as measured
at right angles to the main track of the Railroad; thence North 74 degrees 07
minutes 10 seconds East, 140.6 feet along said line parallel with the Railroad;
thence Easterly 342.5 feet to a point 120 feet North of the south line of the
property; thence Southeast 111.80 feet more or less to a point 60 feet north of
the point of beginning; thence South to the point of beginning and there
terminating.
         m.   The West 150 feet of the South 590 feet of the North half of the
Northeast Quarter of Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, Dakota County,
Minnesota.
(Ord. 094-342, 12-19-1994)
      27.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to MSA section 414.033:
         a.   The East 80 feet of the West 740.55 feet of the South 193 feet of
the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 32, Township 114,
Range 19 West, Dakota County, Minnesota;
         b.   The East 84.44 feet of the South 193 feet of the Northwest
Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, Dakota
County, Minnesota;
TOGETHER WITH:
The West 10 feet of the South 193 feet of the Northeast Quarter of the
Northwest Quarter of Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, Dakota County,
Minnesota;
         c.   Lot 6 of Dooley Addition, according to the plat thereof on file
and of record in the office of the Registrar of Titles in and for the County of
Dakota, State of Minnesota;
         d.   The West 90 feet of the East 174.44 feet of the South 6 acres of
the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 32, Township 114,
Range 19, according to the United States Government Survey thereof and situate
in Dakota County, Minnesota;
         e.   That part of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of
Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, Dakota County, Minnesota, described as
beginning at a point on the south line thereof 580.55 feet East along the said
south line from the Southwest corner of the said Northwest Quarter of the
Northwest Quarter, thence North parallel with the West line of the said
Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter 193 feet; thence East parallel with
the South line of said Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter 80 feet;
thence South parallel with the West line of the said Northwest Quarter of the
Northwest Quarter 193 feet to the South line of said Northwest Quarter of the
Northwest Quarter; thence West along the South line of said Northwest Quarter
of said Northwest Quarter 80 feet to the point of beginning and there
terminating.
(Ord. 097-406, 11-3-1997)
      28.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to MSA section 414.033:
The North Half of the Southwest Quarter of Section 29, Township 114, Range 19,
Dakota County, Minnesota, EXCEPT the West 100 feet of the East 133 feet of the
South Half of the North Half of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 29 and
the West 150 feet of the East 183 feet of the North Half of the North Half of
the Southwest Quarter of said Section 29 and EXCEPT that portion of the North
Half of the Southwest Quarter of said Section 29 lying north and west of CSAH
66.
(Ord. 095-363, 11-6-1995)
      29.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to MSA section 414.033:
         a.   The West 80 feet of the East four (4) acres of the South six (6)
acres of the South half (S1/2) of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest
Quarter (NW1/4 of NW1/4) of Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, and the East 89
feet of the West 169 feet of the East four (4) acres of the South six (6) acres
of the South half (S1/2) of the NW1/4 of the NW1/4 of Section 32, Township 114,
Range 19, all in Dakota County, Minnesota;
         b.   That part of the Northwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NW1/
4 of NW1/4) of Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, described as beginning at a
point on the south line thereof 740.55 feet East along the said south line from
the southwest corner of the said NW1/4 of the NW1/4, thence North parallel with
the West line of the said NW1/4 of NW1/4 193 feet; thence East parallel with
the south line of said NW1/4 of NW1/4 320 feet; thence South parallel with the
West line of said NW1/4 of NW1/4 193 feet to the south line of the said NW1/
4 of NW1/4, thence West along the south line of said NW1/4 of NW1/4 320 feet to
the point of beginning, according to the Government Survey thereof.
(Ord. 095-367, 12-18-1995)
      30.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to MSA section 414.033:
All that part of the North 1/2 of the SE 1/4 of Section 29, Township 114, Range
19, lying Southerly and Southeasterly of the centerline of County State Aid
Highway No. 66 as now traveled and its Westerly extension, except the West
100.00 feet of the East 133.00 feet of the South 1/2 of the North 1/2 of said
SW 1/4 and also except the West 150.00 feet of the East 183.00 feet of the
North 1/2 of the North 1/2 of said SW 1/4;
AND
All that part of the South 1/2 of said SW 1/4 described as follows: Beginning
at a point on the West line of said SW 1/4, 658.00 feet North of the SW corner
of said SW 1/4, thence running East 1077.00 feet, thence due North 662.00 feet
to the North line of said South 1/2 of the SW 1/4; thence West 1077.00 feet to
the West line of said SW 1/4; thence South along said West line to the point of
beginning, except that part thereof lying South of the North line of the South
665.00 feet of said SW 1/4.
(Ord. 096-381, 10-21-1996)
      31.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to MSA section 414.033:
The South 435.6 feet of the North 501.60 feet of the West 200.00 feet of the
East 300.00 feet of the Southeast Quarter (SE1/4) of the Northwest Quarter
(NW1/4) of Section Thirty Two (32), Township One Hundred Fourteen (114), Range
Nineteen (19) according to the government survey thereof.
(Ord. 097-401, 9-15-1997)
      32.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to MSA section 414.033:
That part of the north fourteen (14) acres of the South Half of the Northwest
Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (S1/2, NW1/4, NW1/4) of Section Thirty Two,
Township 114 North, Range 19 West, Town of Farmington, Dakota County,
Minnesota, lying southerly of the following described line:
Commencing at the northwest corner of said Northwest Quarter of Section 32;
thence South 89 degrees 50 minutes and 12 seconds east (assumed bearing) along
the North line of said Northwest Quarter of Section 32 a distance of 59.45
feet; thence South 1 degree 38 minutes 57 seconds West a distance of 500.32
feet to a point on the southerly right of way line of the former Chicago,
Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad Company and the easterly right of way
line of the S.T.H. No. 3, said southerly right of way line being 50.00 feet
perpendicularly southerly of and parallel to the former main track of the
aforementioned railroad company; thence North 74 degrees 15 minutes 36 seconds
East along said south right of way line at railroad a distance of 1430.00 feet;
thence South 15 degrees 44 minutes and 24 seconds east a distance of 466.00
feet, to the point of beginning of the line to be described; thence South 74
degrees 15 minutes and 36 seconds West a distance of 717.58 feet; thence North
87 degrees 35 minutes and 18 seconds West to the West line of the
aforementioned Northwest Quarter of Section 32.
(Ord. 097-402, 9-15-1997)
      33.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the City of
Farmington pursuant to MSA section 414.033:
Parcel 1: That part of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE 1/
4 of NW 1/4) of Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, Dakota County, Minnesota,
lying southerly and westerly of the following described line: Commencing at the
northeast corner of said NE 1/4 of NW 1/4; thence southerly along the East line
of said NE 1/4 of NW 1/4 a distance of 245.36 feet, more or less, to its
intersection with a line parallel with and 516.00 feet southerly of, as
measured at right angles to the centerline of the main track of the Chicago,
Milwaukee, St. Paul, and Pacific Railroad; thence continuing South along said
East line a distance of 379.50 feet to the point of beginning of the line to be
described; thence deflecting 90 degrees right and Westerly a distance of
1044.79 feet; thence deflecting 90 degrees right and northerly a distance of
85.28 feet, more or less, to its intersection with said line which is parallel
with and 516.00 feet southerly of, as measured at right angles to the
centerline of said Railroad; thence southwesterly along said parallel line a
distance of 288.51 feet, more or less, to the west line of said NE 1/4 of NW 1/
4, said line there terminating. Except the East 66.00 feet thereof. And also
except the West 10.00 feet the South 193.00 feet thereof. And also except that
part of the Northeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter (NE 1/4 of NW 1/4) of
Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, Dakota County, Minnesota, described as
follows: Commencing at the northeast corner of said NE 1/4 of NW 1/4; thence
southerly along the East line of said NE 1/4 of NW 1/4 a distance of 245.36
feet, more or less, to its intersection with a line parallel with and 516.00
feet southerly of, as measured at right angles to the centerline of the main
track of the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul, and Pacific Railroad; thence
continuing South along said East line a distance of 379.50 feet to the point of
beginning of the line to be described; thence deflecting 90 degrees right and
Westerly a distance of 1044.79 feet hereinafter referred to a Point "A"; thence
deflecting 90 degrees right and northerly a distance of 85.28 feet, more or
less, to its intersection with said line which is parallel with and 516.00 feet
southerly of, as measured at right angles to the centerline of said Railroad;
thence southwesterly along said parallel line a distance of 288.51 feet, more
or less, to the west line of said NE 1/4 of NW 1/4; thence South along said
West line 110 feet; thence Northeasterly 288 feet, more or less, to Point "A";
thence easterly 400 feet along the North line of the Property; thence
deflecting 90 degrees right and south a distance of 71.2 feet; thence along a
line southeasterly 650.4 feet, more or less, to its intersection with the East
line of said NE 1/4 of NW 1/4; thence North along said line 156.80 feet to the
point of beginning; together with the property south and east of County Road
72.
Parcel 2: A tract of land in that part of the Northeast Quarter of the
Northwest Quarter (NE 1/4 of NW 1/4) of Section Thirty-two (32) Township (114)
Range (19) Dakota County, Minnesota, described as follows: Commencing at the
Northeast corner of said NE 1/4 of NW 1/4; thence southerly along the east line
of said NE 1/4 of the NW 1/4 a distance of 245.36 feet more or less, to its
intersection with a line parallel with and 516.00 feet southerly of, as
measured at right angles to the centerline of the main track of the Chicago,
Milwaukee, St. Paul and Pacific Railroad; then continuing South along said East
line a distance of 379.50 feet; thence deflecting 90 degrees right and Westerly
a distance of 1044.79 feet to the point of beginning; thence deflecting 90
degrees right and Northerly a distance of 85.28 feet, more or less to its
intersection with said line which is parallel with and 516.00 feet southerly
of, as measured at right angles to the centerline of said railroad; thence
Southwesterly along said parallel line a distance of 288.51 feet more or less
to the West line of said NE 1/4 of NW 1/4, thence South along said West line
110 feet, thence Northeasterly 288 feet more or less to the point of beginning
and there terminating.
(Ord. 098-411, 1-5-1998)
      34.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the city of
Farmington pursuant to MSA section 414.033:
The West 2200 feet of the South one-half (S1/2) of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/
4) of section 32, Township 114, Range 19, Dakota County, EXCEPTING therefrom
the West 350 feet thereof. Containing 56.12 Acres more or less.
(Ord. 001-461, 4-16-2001)
      35.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the city of
Farmington pursuant to MSA section 414.033:
The West 990 feet of the Southwest Quarter (SW1/4) of Section 19, Township 114,
Range 19, Dakota County.
   (Ord. 001-462, 4-16-2001)
      36.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the city of
Farmington pursuant to MSA section 414.033:
The West 2200 feet of the North One-half (N1/2) of the Northeast Quarter (NE1/
4) of Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, Dakota County, EXCEPTING therefrom
the North 416 feet of the West 732.98 feet, AND ALSO EXCEPTING therefrom the
West 150 feet of the South 590 feet thereof. Containing 57.71 acres more or
less.
(Ord. 001-463, 4-16-2001)
      37.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the city of
Farmington pursuant to MSA section 414.033:
Parcel A: The West 2 acres of the South 6 acres of the South half of the
Northwest quarter of the Northwest quarter of Section 32, Township 114, Range
19, EXCEPTING THEREFROM a tract of land described as follows:
Commencing at the Northwest corner of the said West 2 acres of the South 6
acres of the South half of the Northwest quarter of the Northwest quarter of
said Section Thirty-two; thence East 170 feet; thence South 60 feet; thence
West 170 feet; thence North 60 feet to the place of beginning.
Parcel B: All that part of the Northwest quarter of the Northwest quarter of
Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, described as follows: Commencing at the
Northwest corner of the South 6 acres of the South half of the Northwest
quarter of the Northwest quarter, thence East 170 feet, thence South 60 feet,
thence West 170 feet, thence North 60 feet to the place of beginning, according
to the Government Survey thereof.
(Ord. 001-465, 6-18-2001)
      38.   The property described below is hereby annexed to the city of
Farmington pursuant to MSA section 414.033:
The Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 113,
Range 19, Dakota County, Minnesota.
EXCEPT:
The South 255.60 feet of the East 255.60 feet of said Southeast Quarter of the
Northwest Quarter, the West 629.00 feet of the East 950.62 feet of the South
346.26 feet of said Southeast Quarter of the Northwest Quarter, and the South
346.26 feet lying West of the East 1016.62 feet of said Southeast Quarter of
the Northwest Quarter.
AND
The Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter of Section 5, Township 113,
Range 19, Dakota County, Minnesota.
EXCEPT:
The North 132.00 feet of the South 610.50 feet of the West 330.00 feet of said
Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter, the South 478.50 feet of the West
165.00 feet of said Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter, the East 227.60
feet of the West 457.06 feet of the South 478.00 feet of said Southwest Quarter
of the Northwest Quarter, the East 65.00 feet of the West 230.00 feet of the
North 181.50 feet of the South 476.50 feet of said Southwest Quarter of the
Northwest Quarter, the East 65.00 feet of the West 230.00 feet of the South
264.00 feet of said Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter, that part of
the West 1113.91 feet lying North of the South 643.50 feet of said Southwest
Quarter of the Northwest Quarter, and that part of said Southwest Quarter of
the Northwest Quarter described as follows: beginning at a point on the West
line of said Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter distant 643.50 feet
North of the Southwest Corner of said Southwest Quarter of the Northwest
Quarter; thence East 330.00 feet; thence South 33.00 feet; thence West 330.00
feet; thence North 33.00 feet to the point of beginning.
ALSO EXCEPTING:
1.69 acres of said Southwest Quarter of the Northwest Quarter for road
purposes.
(Ord. 004-517, 9-7-2004)
FA192   1-12
CHAPTER 12
OFFICIAL DEPOSITORY
SECTION:
1-12-1: Official Depository
1-12-1: OFFICIAL DEPOSITORY:
The City Council shall, at its annual meeting, designate the official
depository(ies) by resolution. The Treasurer, or any other proper officer, is
hereby ordained, required and directed to keep monies belonging or in care of
the City in the above named depository. (Ord. 088-199, 3-7-88)
FA192   1-13
CHAPTER 13
OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER
SECTION:
1-13-1: Official Newspaper
1-13-1: OFFICIAL NEWSPAPER:
The City Council shall, at its annual meeting, designate the official newspaper
by resolution, and such notices, declarations, ordinances and other matters
requiring official publication shall be published in said newspaper. (Ord. 088-
199, 3-7-88)
CHAPTER 14
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
SECTION:
1-14-1: Partial Payment Of Special Assessments
1-14-2: Deferment Of Special Assessments
1-14-1: PARTIAL PAYMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
The city hereby authorizes the partial prepayment of special assessments
certified pursuant to the provisions of Minnesota Statutes Annotated chapter
429. The owner of any property upon which a special assessment has been levied
may, at any time prior to certification of the assessment or the first
installment thereof to the county auditor, pay the whole assessment or may
partially prepay any portion, not less than one hundred dollars ($100.00), of
said assessment, with interest accrued to the date of payment, to the city
treasurer; provided, that no interest shall be charged if the entire assessment
is paid within thirty (30) days of the adoption of the assessment. (Ord. 006-
561, 8-21-2006)
1-14-2: DEFERMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
The city council may defer the payment of any special assessment on homestead
property owned by an individual who qualifies under one of the hardship
criteria set forth in subsection (C) of this section.
   (A)   Application For Deferral Of Assessments: Application for deferral of
special assessments shall be made at any time after the adoption of the
assessment roll by filling out an application form available from the finance
department at Farmington City Hall.
If the application for a deferral is approved, the city will notify the Dakota
County treasurer-auditor and a notice of the deferral will be recorded with the
Dakota County recorder pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Annotated section
435.194. (Ord. 006-561, 8-21-2006)
   (B)   Duration And Renewal: A deferral, if granted, shall be effective for a
period of one year. An application form will be sent out each year to reapply
for the deferment. The application must be returned within thirty (30) days of
receipt of said application. Renewal applications will be approved by the city
administrator for those cases whereby the original conditions for qualification
remain substantially unchanged. (Ord. 015-679, 2-2-2015)
   (C)   Hardship Determination: A hardship is deemed to exist if the applicant
meets all of the following conditions:
      1.   The requested deferral is for homestead property owned by a person
sixty five (65) years of age or older, or retired by virtue of a permanent and
total disability.
Permanent and/or total disability shall be determined by the applicant
demonstrating to the city's satisfaction that he or she qualifies for
"permanent and total disability" for workers' compensation, social security, or
other federal or state program. An applicant must substantiate the retirement
by reason of permanent and/or total disability by providing a sworn affidavit
by a licensed medical doctor attesting that the applicant is unable to be
gainfully employed because of a permanent and/or total disability.
      2.   The average annual payment for all assessments levied against the
subject property exceeds one percent (1%) of the adjusted gross income of the
individual as evidenced by the applicant's most recent federal income tax
return. The average annual payment of an assessment shall be the total cost of
the assessment divided by the number of years over which it is spread.
If the applicant's income appears to make them ineligible for the deferment,
but they believe a hardship would occur if the special assessment had to be
paid, they can apply to the city council for special consideration for a
deferment.
      3.   The total special assessment (principal plus interest for term of
assessment) exceeds one thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
   (D)   Exceptional And Unusual Circumstances: Notwithstanding the foregoing
provisions of this section, the city council, upon recommendation by the city
administrator, may pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Annotated section 435.193
determine a hardship based on exceptional and unusual circumstances not covered
by the conditions in subsection (C) of this section. Any determination shall be
made in a nondiscriminatory manner, and shall not give the applicant an
unreasonable preference or advantage over other applicants.
   (E)   Interest Rate: Unless otherwise provided under the resolution adopting
the special assessment, all assessments deferred under this section shall bear
interest at the rate of eight percent (8%) per annum.
   (F)   Termination Of Deferral: Deferral of special assessments under this
section shall terminate upon the occurrence of any one of the following events:
      1.   The death of the property owner when there is no surviving spouse
who is eligible for deferment.
      2.   The sale, transfer or subdivision of all or any part of the
property.
      3.   The loss of homestead status for the property.
      4.   The failure of the applicant to file a renewal application within
the time prescribed in subsection (B) of this section.
      5.   The property owner is no longer meeting the hardship eligibility
requirements of subsection (C) or (D) of this section.
Property owners who have been granted a deferral under this section have a
continuing obligation to notify the city clerk of any changes in their
eligibility for deferment. Upon termination of deferral, all deferred
assessments plus applicable interest will become immediately due and payable
and the city clerk shall notify the Dakota County auditor and the Dakota County
recorder of the termination of deferral. The city council may, at its
discretion, provide for payment of the sums in installment payments in
accordance with the terms of the original assessment.
(G)   Certify Taxes Paid: The city of Farmington requires, as part of the
necessary information on an application, and as a condition of a grant of
approval that an applicant for an amendment to an official control established
pursuant to MSA sections 462.351 to 462.364, or for a permit or other approval
required under an official control established pursuant to those sections, to
certify that there are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments,
penalties, interest and/or municipal utility fees due on the parcel to which
the application relates. In the case of taxes, assessments, penalties and
interest the certification shall consist of a statement from the Dakota County
treasurer-auditor. Property taxes which are being paid under the provisions of
a stipulation, order or confession of judgment, or which are being appealed as
provided by law, are not considered delinquent for purposes of this subsection
if all required payments due under the terms of the stipulation, order,
confession of judgment, or appeal have been paid.
If there are delinquencies due as stated above on the parcel for which an
approval is being sought, the city council shall attach as a condition to the
approval being sought, a condition that said approval shall not be effective
until the delinquent amounts have been paid in full.
   Application and Authorization
      For Delayed Payment of Tax on Special Assessments
STATE OF MINNESOTA
COUNTY OF DAKOTA      Date                20      
TO: County Auditor, Dakota County, Minnesota
I, the undersigned, declare under penalties of perjury
That I reside at    
 
That I am not less than 65 years of age or permanently and totally disabled or
otherwise qualified for deferral of assessment under the City of Farmington
City Code
That I am the owner of the property legally described as:
      
         Property Identification No.:                           
That my interest in the ownership of the above property was acquired on
             , 19       ,
And is as follows:
1. Sole ownership (Enter yes, if applicable)    
2. Joint Tenancy, held with    
3. Other undivided interest (Specify)    
      Address    
That on January 2, 20       , or June 1, 20       , I owned and occupied the
above property as my homestead and such occupancy began on                ,
20        . That the installments for improvements on the special assessments
duly adopted in ordinance by the City Council of Farmington as of
                    , 20          , which have been allocated against the
subject property would create an undue personal hardship on my behalf and I
respectfully request that payment be delayed and that such installments be so
deferred for the years 20         to 20        .
                                                
      Signature of owner
   FOR CITY USE ONLY
I,                      , Clerk of the City of Farmington in Dakota County,
State of Minnesota, do hereby certify that the application of
                                            , above named, has been duly
reviewed and that in accordance with the minutes of official record in the
chambers was duly         APPROVED or        DENIED as of              ,
20        .
That in accordance with approval granted, the special assessments listed below
on the affiants subject property levied for annual collection in the amounts
and for the years shown be so deferred with interest at the annual rate shown
until such time as it is deemed that applicant no longer qualifies or the
property loses its eligibility.
 
                  Years Of     
Name of       Total collection  Interest
Assessment SA# Amt.  (Inclusive) Rate
 
(Ord. 006-561, 8-21-2006)
   CHAPTER 15
CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION
SECTION:
1-15-1: Employment And Volunteer Applicant Criminal History Background
Investigation
1-15-2: License And Permit Applicant Criminal History Background Investigation
1-15-1: EMPLOYMENT AND VOLUNTEER APPLICANT CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND
INVESTIGATION:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota's computerized
criminal history information for specified noncriminal purposes of employment
and volunteer background checks.
   (B)   Criminal History Employment And Volunteer Background Investigations:
The Farmington police department is hereby authorized and required, as the
exclusive entity within the city, to do a criminal history background
investigation on applicants for volunteers and regular part time or full time
employees of the city and other positions that work with children or vulnerable
adults, unless the city's hiring authority concludes that a background
investigation is not needed.
In conducting the criminal history background investigation in order to screen
volunteers and applicants, the police department is authorized to access data
maintained in the Minnesota bureau of criminal apprehension computerized
criminal history information system in accordance with BCA policy. Any data
that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the police department
under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or his or her
designee. A summary of the results of the computerized criminal history data
may be released by the police department to the hiring authority, including the
city council, the city administrator, or other city staff involved in the
hiring process.
Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must authorize the police
department, by written consent, to undertake the investigation and to release
the information to the city council, city administrator, and other city staff
as appropriate. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
Minnesota statutes chapter 13 regarding the collection, maintenance and use of
the information. Except for the positions set forth in Minnesota statutes
section 364.09, the city will not reject an applicant for employment on the
basis of the applicant's prior conviction unless the crime is directly related
to the position of employment sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross
misdemeanor, or misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the
applicant's request on this basis, the city administrator shall notify the
applicant, in writing, of the following:
      1.   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
      2.   The applicable complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
Minnesota statutes section 364.06;
      3.   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment; and
      4.   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reallocation. (Ord. 013-658, 2-4-2013)
1-15-2: LICENSE AND PERMIT APPLICANT CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to Minnesota's computerized
criminal history information for specified noncriminal purposes of licensing
background checks.
   (B)   Criminal History License Background Investigations: The police
department is hereby authorized and required, as the exclusive entity within
the city, to do a criminal history background investigation on the applicants
for city permits, licenses, and other approvals, unless the city's licensing
authority concludes that a background investigation is not needed.
In conducting the criminal history background investigation in order to screen
license applicants, the police department is authorized to access data
maintained in the Minnesota bureau of criminal apprehension computerized
criminal history information system in accordance with BCA policy. Any data
that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the police department
under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or his or her
designee. A summary of the results of the computerized criminal history data
may be released by the police department to the licensing authority, including
the city council, the city administrator, or other city staff involved in the
license approval process.
Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must authorize the police
department by written consent to undertake the investigation. The written
consent must fully comply with the provisions of Minnesota statutes chapter 13
regarding the collection, maintenance and use of the information. Except for
the positions set forth in Minnesota statutes section 364.09, the city will not
reject an applicant for a license on the basis of the applicant's prior
conviction unless the crime is directly related to the license sought and the
conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor with a jail
sentence. If the city rejects the applicant's request on this basis, the city
shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
      1.   The grounds and reasons for the denial.
      2.   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
Minnesota statutes section 364.06.
      3.   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license.
      4.   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication. (Ord. 013-658, 2-4-2013)
FA192   1-16.txt
CHAPTER 16
ABSENTEE BALLOT BOARD
SECTION:
1-16-1: Establishment
1-16-2: Composition And Duties
1-16-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
Pursuant to the provisions of Minnesota Statutes Annotated section 203B.13, the
council of the city hereby establishes an absentee ballot board in the city.
Said absentee ballot board will encompass the entire city for the purpose of
receiving all absentee ballots for any primary or general election, or special
referendum held within the municipality. The absentee ballot board shall be
under the direct charge and supervision of the city clerk, and the place for
receiving and examining all returned absentee ballots shall be at the
Farmington City Hall, Farmington, MN 55024. (Ord. 000-453, 9-18-2000)
1-16-2: COMPOSITION AND DUTIES:
Said absentee ballot board shall consist of an election board designated by the
city clerk. The board's duties shall be as follows:
   (A)   Receive all absentee ballot return envelopes for each precinct in the
municipality.
   (B)   Examine all returned absentee ballot envelopes and accept or reject
absentee ballots as in the manner provided in Minnesota Statutes Annotated
section 203B.12. (Ord. 000-453, 9-18-2000)
   (C)   Feed accepted absentee ballots into vote tabulator and include in vote
totals. (Ord. 015-677, 1-20-2015)
FA192   2t.txt
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
CIVIL DEFENSE ORGANIZATION
(Rep. by Ord. 015-680, 2-2-2015)
FA192   2-2.txt
CHAPTER 2
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Established
2-2-2: Initial Appointments
2-2-3: Criteria Adopted
2-2-4: Effective Date
2-2-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
Under authority of Minnesota Statutes 462.354 there is hereby established an
advisory Planning Commission to make recommendations to the Council for the
future development of land so as to ensure a safer, more pleasant and more
economical environment for residential, commercial, industrial and public
activities and to promote the public health, safety, morals and general
welfare. (Ord. 080-87, 4-7-1980)
2-2-2: INITIAL APPOINTMENTS:
Initial appointments were made to accomplish the rotation of overlapping terms
described in subsection
 2-2-3(E) of this chapter. (Ord. 080-87, 4-7-1980)
2-2-3: CRITERIA ADOPTED:
The following criteria are hereby adopted:
   (A)   Members; Officers: The commission shall consist of five (5) members
who shall choose annually from among themselves a Chairman and a Vice Chairman.
   (B)   Designated Seats: All seats are undesignated.
   (C)   Appointment: Members shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (D)   Qualifications: Members shall be citizens of the United States and
shall be residents of the City.
   (E)   Terms Of Office: Members shall be appointed for two (2) year terms
each beginning on February 1 providing for a rotation of two (2) members one
year and three (3) members the next, et seq.
   (F)   Vacancies: A vacancy shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired
term. (Ord. 080-87, 4-7-1980)
   (G)   Compensation: Effective February 1, 2018, members shall receive thirty
dollars ($30.00) per meeting attended in addition to reasonable personal
expenses. (Ord. 018-738, 3-19-2018)
   (H)   Removal: Members may be removed from office for cause by a four-fifths
(4/5) vote of the Council.
   (I)   Oath Of Office: Prior to assuming the duties to which first appointed
each member shall take an oath of office. (Ord. 080-87, 4-7-1980)
2-2-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter becomes effective upon adoption by the Council and upon subsequent
publication in the official newspaper. (Ord. 080-87, 4-7-1980)
FA192   2-3.txt
CHAPTER 3
BOARD OF CENSORS
(Rep. by Ord. 72-1, 1-2-1972)
FA192   02-04.TXT
CHAPTER 4
ZONING BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT 1
(Rep. by Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
FA192   2-5.txt
 
Notes
  1. See sections
1 10-3-3,
  10-3-9 and
  10-3-10 of this code.
CHAPTER 5
WATER COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-5-1: Commission Established
2-5-2: Initial Appointments
2-5-3: Criteria Adopted
2-5-4: Effective Date
2-5-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
It is hereby recognized that in the city there was created in August of 1911 a
"water board" which it is herein reaffirmed, did and continues to exist as an
independent administrative utilities commission under the provision of
Minnesota Statutes Annotated 412.341. The commission shall have jurisdiction
over the municipal water system only and shall have all of the powers granted
to it under Minnesota Statutes Annotated 412.361. (Ord. 080-88, 4-7-1980)
2-5-2: INITIAL APPOINTMENTS:
Initial appointments were made to accomplish the rotation of overlapping terms
described in subsection
2-5-3(E) of this chapter. (Ord. 080-88, 4-7-1980)
2-5-3: CRITERIA ADOPTED:
The following criteria are hereby adopted:
   (A)   Members; Officers: There shall be three (3) members who shall choose
annually from among themselves a president and all of whom shall appoint a
secretary who will be a city employee. (Ord. 015-682, 2-2-2015)
   (B)   Designated Seats: All seats are undesignated unless a member of the
city council is appointed to the one seat allowed for this purpose.
   (C)   Appointing Authority: All members shall be appointed by the city
council.
   (D)   Qualifications: All members shall be citizens of the United States and
shall be residents of the city.
   (E)   Terms Of Office: All members shall be appointed for three (3) year
terms beginning on February 1 providing for the rotation of one member each
year.
   (F)   Vacancy: A vacancy shall be filled by the council for the unexpired
term. (Ord. 080-88, 4-7-1980)
   (G)   Compensation: Members shall receive a salary as fixed by the council
in the annual budget. (Ord. 015-682, 2-2-2015)
   (H)   Removal: Members may be removed from office for cause by a four-fifths
(4/5) vote of the council.
   (I)   Oath Of Office: Prior to assuming the duties to which first appointed,
each member shall take an oath of office. (Ord. 080-88, 4-7-1980)
2-5-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This ordinance becomes effective upon adoption by the council and upon
subsequent publication in the official newspaper. (Ord. 080-88, 4-7-1980)
FA192   2-6.txt
CHAPTER 6
PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6-1: Commission Established
2-6-2: Initial Appointments
2-6-3: Criteria Adopted
2-6-4: Effective Date
2-6-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
Under authority of Minnesota Statutes Annotated 412.111 there is hereby
established an advisory Park and Recreation Commission the purpose of which
shall be to make recommendations to the City Council on all matters of broad
policy relating to the acquisition, development, maintenance and operation of
park and recreation facilities and programs. (Ord. 080-89, 4-7-1980)
2-6-2: INITIAL APPOINTMENTS:
Initial appointments were made to accomplish the rotation of overlapping terms
described in subsection
2-6-3(E) of this chapter. (Ord. 080-89, 4-7-1980)
2-6-3: CRITERIA ADOPTED:
The following criteria are hereby adopted:
   (A)   Members; Officers: The commission shall consist of five (5) members
who shall choose from among themselves a Chairman and a Vice Chairman.
   (B)   Designated Seats: All seats are undesignated.
   (C)   Appointment: The members shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (D)   Qualifications: Members shall be citizens of the United States and
shall be residents of the City. (Ord. 080-89, 4-7-1980)
   (E)   Terms: Terms shall be staggered so that there shall be continuity on
the commission. Members shall be appointed for three (3) year terms each
beginning on February 1, providing for a rotation of two (2) members one year,
one member the next year and two (2) members the following year, et seq.
Effective with this subsection and beginning with appointments in 2004, the
following shall occur: One member shall be appointed for a two (2) year term
and two (2) members shall be appointed for a three (3) year term. Each
subsequent appointment to follow shall be for a three (3) year term, unless an
appointment is made to fill a vacancy then the appointment shall be made for
the unexpired term. (Ord. 003-500, 10-6-2003)
   (F)   Compensation: Effective February 1, 2018, members shall receive thirty
dollars ($30.00) per meeting attended in addition to reasonable personal
expenses. (Ord. 018-738, 3-19-2018)
   (G)   Removal: Members may be removed from office by a four- fifths (4/5)
vote of the Council.
   (H)   Vacancies: A vacancy shall be filled by the Council for the unexpired
terms.
   (I)   Oath Of Office: Prior to assuming the duties to which first appointed
each member shall take an oath of office. (Ord. 080-89, 4-7-1980)
2-6-4: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter becomes effective upon adoption by the Council and upon subsequent
publication in the official newspaper. (Ord. 080-89, 4-7-1980)
FA192   2-7.txt
CHAPTER 7
CATV ADVISORY COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-7-1: Commission Established And Purpose
2-7-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED AND PURPOSE:
Pursuant to that joint powers agreement dated August 16, 1999, the Apple
Valley, Farmington, Rosemount cable commission is appointed as the city's CATV
advisory commission in compliance with Minnesota Statutes Annotated chapter 238
and title 8, chapter 8 of this code, with the duty to monitor the performance
of cable franchisees within the city and to advise and make recommendations to
the city council concerning matters related thereto. (Ord. 015-684, 2-2-2015)
FA192   2-8.txt
CHAPTER 8
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
SECTION:
2-8-1: Authority Established
2-8-2: Governance Provisions
2-8-1: AUTHORITY ESTABLISHED:
It is hereby recognized that in the City there was created, March 18, 1974, a
housing and redevelopment authority. Effective upon adoption of an enabling
resolution as required by Minnesota Statutes Annotated section 469.091, all
programs, projects, activities and personnel of the housing and redevelopment
authority are transferred to the economic development authority (EDA).
The EDA is authorized to exercise on behalf of the City the powers conferred by
Minnesota Statutes Annotated sections 462C.01 to 462C.08 including power to
issue and sell single- family housing revenue bonds.
The EDA shall, upon request of the City Council, make periodic status reports
to the City Council regarding any action(s) undertaken pursuant to the power(s)
conferred hereby. (Ord. 005-541, 8-15-2005)
2-8-2: GOVERNANCE PROVISIONS:
The following provisions regarding governance of the authority are hereby
adopted:
   (A)   Members; Officers: The authority shall consist of five (5) Council
members, who are residents of Farmington who shall choose from among themselves
a Chair, Vice Chair and other officers as required by law.
   (B)   Designated Seats: Five (5) seats shall be held by sitting members of
the City Council.
   (C)   Qualifications: Members shall be citizens of the United States and
residents of the City.
   (D)   Terms Of Office: The term of the Council members shall be concurrent
with the Council members' City Council terms and shall expire at the same time
as the members' Council term of office.
   (E)   Compensation: Effective February 1, 2018, members of the authority who
are Council members shall serve without pay, but may be reimbursed for
reasonable personal expenses. Members of the authority who are not Council
members shall receive thirty dollars ($30.00) per meeting in addition to
reasonable personal expenses.
   (F)   Oath Of Office: Prior to assuming the duties to which first appointed,
each member shall take an oath of office. (Ord. 015-702, 10-19-2015, eff. 2-1-
2016; amd. Ord. 018-738, 3-19-2018; Ord. 019-743, 2-4-2019; Ord. 021-755, 2-1-
2021; Ord. 021-763, 9-7-2021)
CHAPTER 9
REFORESTATION ADVISORY COMMISSION
(Rep. by Ord. 008-591, 10-20-2008)
CHAPTER 10
RAMBLING RIVER CENTER ADVISORY BOARD
SECTION:
2-10-1: Board Established
2-10-2: Appointments
2-10-3: Criteria Adopted
2-10-1: BOARD ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established, a Rambling River Center Advisory Board (Advisory
Board), the purpose of which shall be to make recommendations to the Park and
Recreation Advisory Commission on all matters of broad policy regarding
activities, programs and operations of the Rambling River Center. The Park and
Recreation Advisory Commission shall advance a recommendation to the City
Council on these matters. (Ord. 012-644, 5-21-2012)
2-10-2: APPOINTMENTS:
Members shall apply to and be appointed by the City Council as described in
subsections
2-10-3(D) and (G) of this chapter. (Ord. 012-644, 5-21-2012)
2-10-3: CRITERIA ADOPTED:
The following criteria are hereby adopted:
   (A)   Members; Officers: The Advisory Board shall consist of seven (7)
members who shall choose from among themselves a Chair and a Vice Chair.
   (B)   At Large Seats: All seats shall be at large. Membership should reflect
the goals and concerns of the Rambling River Center.
   (C)   Qualifications: Members shall be citizens of the United States and
shall reside in the City of Farmington, Empire, Castle Rock or Eureka
Townships. Members need not be senior citizens.
   (D)   Terms: Terms shall be staggered so that there shall be continuity on
the Advisory Board. Members shall be appointed for a three (3) year term, each
beginning on February 1, providing for a rotation of two (2) members one year,
two (2) members the next year and three (3) members the following year, et seq.
Members may be reappointed. (Ord. 012-644, 5-21-2012)
   (E)   Compensation: Effective February 1, 2018, members shall receive thirty
dollars ($30.00) per meeting attended in addition to reasonable personal
expenses. (Ord. 018-738, 3-19-2018)
   (F)   Removal: Members may be removed by the City Council. The City Council
may consider any recommendations from the Advisory Board or the Park and
Recreation Advisory Commission regarding the removal of any members.
   (G)   Vacancies: A vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the term by
the City Council per City Council policy 101-05-1997.
   (H)   Budget: The Park and Recreation Director or designee shall review the
annual operating and capital budget with the Advisory Board. (Ord. 012-644, 5-
21-2012)
FA192   2-11.txt
CHAPTER 11
HERITAGE PRESERVATION COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-11-1: Declaration Of Public Policy And Purpose
2-11-2: Definitions
2-11-3: Heritage Preservation Commission Powers And Duties
2-11-4: Designation Of Farmington Heritage Landmarks
2-11-5: Design Review
2-11-6: Violations And Penalty
2-11-7: Repository For Documents
2-11-1: DECLARATION OF PUBLIC POLICY AND PURPOSE:
The Farmington City Council hereby declares as a matter of public policy that
the preservation, protection, perpetuation and use of buildings, sites,
structures, objects, and districts having special historical interest or value
is a matter of public necessity, and is required in the interest of the health,
safety, welfare and prosperity of the people. The purpose of this Chapter is
to:
   (A)   Safeguard the heritage of the City by preserving buildings, sites,
structures, objects and districts which reflect elements of the City's
historical, architectural, archaeological, or cultural heritage;
   (B)   Protect and enhance the City's appeal to residents, visitors and
tourists, and serve as a support and stimulus to business and industry;
   (C)   Foster civic pride in the beauty and notable accomplishments of the
past; and
   (D)   Promote the preservation, protection and use of historic buildings,
sites, structures, objects and districts for the education and general welfare
of the people of the City. (Ord. 099-422, 2-16-1999)
2-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings respectively ascribed to them by this Section:
BUILDING: A construction created principally to shelter a form of human
activity, such as a house, commercial building, school, or church.
CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS: The documentation provided by the Heritage
Preservation Commission which evidences approval of activities proposed for a
Farmington Heritage Landmark.
DESIGN REVIEW: The process of finding out whether proposed changes to an
historic property meet standards of appropriateness.
DISTRICT: A discrete, geographically definable area possessing a concentration,
linkage or continuity of buildings, sites, structures or objects united
historically by plan or physical development.
FARMINGTON HERITAGE LANDMARK: An historic property so designated by resolution
of the City Council.
HISTORIC PROPERTY: Any building, site, structure or object that is significant
in history, architecture, archaeology or culture.
OBJECT: A construction that is primarily artistic in nature or relatively small
in scale and that is associated with a specific historic setting or
environment.
SIGNIFICANCE: The historic preservation value and importance of an historic
property to the history, architecture, archaeology, or culture of the City of
Farmington, the State of Minnesota, or the United States.
SITE: The location of a prehistoric or historic occupation or activity that
possesses historic, cultural, or archaeological value.
STRUCTURE: Constructions made for purposes other than creating human shelter,
such as bridges, roadways, silos, and grain elevators.
SURVEY: The process of identifying and gathering information on historic
properties. (Ord. 099-422, 2-16-1999)
2-11-3: HERITAGE PRESERVATION COMMISSION POWERS AND DUTIES:
   (A)   Members: The City of Farmington Heritage Preservation Commission
(hereinafter the "HPC") shall consist of up to five (5) voting members, adult
residents of the City, to be appointed by the City Council. HPC members shall
include professionals in the disciplines of history, architecture,
architectural history, archaeology, planning, or related disciplines and such
other persons as have demonstrated interest or knowledge of historic
preservation. Ex officio, nonvoting members of the HPC shall include a
representative of the Dakota County Historical Society, the Farmington
Historical Society, and a member of the Farmington Planning Commission. As an
alternative to appointing a separate Commission, the City Council may assign
the powers and duties of the HPC to the Planning Commission, in which case the
terms of office, organization and compensation provisions of this Chapter shall
not apply and the provisions of Chapter 2 of this Title will apply.
   (B)   Terms Of Office: All appointments for voting members shall be made for
a term of three (3) years. Members may be reappointed. Term expiration shall be
staggered so that no more than three (3) positions shall be filled each year.
Members shall continue to hold office until their successors have been
appointed.
   (C)   Organization: The HPC shall elect from its members such officers as it
may deem necessary. The HPC shall have the power to designate and appoint from
its members various committees. The HPC shall make such bylaws as it may deem
advisable and necessary for the conduct of its affairs, for the purpose of
carrying out the intent of this chapter, which are not inconsistent with the
laws of the City and the State.
   (D)   Program Assistance: To accomplish the intent and purpose of this
chapter, the City shall provide the HPC with staff support and technical
assistance.
   (E)   Powers And Duties: Unless otherwise specified herein, the powers and
duties of the HPC shall be as follows:
      1.   Conduct a continuing survey of historic properties in the City which
the HPC has reason to believe are or will be eligible for designation as
Farmington heritage landmarks.
      2.   Nominate properties for designation as heritage landmarks.
      3.   Review and comment upon permit applications and plans relating to
heritage landmarks.
      4.   Increase public awareness of historic preservation and historic
properties.
      5.   Make recommendations to the City Council concerning grants and gifts
from Federal and State agencies, private groups and individuals and the
utilization of budgetary appropriations for historic preservation programs.
      6.   Prepare a comprehensive historic preservation plan for the City.
      7.   Make an annual report containing a statement of its activities and
plans to the City Council.
      8.   Any other functions which may be designated by ordinance or motion
of the City Council.
   (F)   Compensation: Effective February 1, 2018, members shall receive thirty
dollars ($30.00) per meeting attended in addition to reasonable personal
expenses. (Ord. 099-422, 2-16-1999; Ord. 015-687, 2-2-2015; Ord. 018-738, 3-19-
2018; Ord. 019-747, 9-3-2019)
2-11-4: DESIGNATION OF FARMINGTON HERITAGE LANDMARKS:
   (A)   Eligibility Criteria: The following criteria shall guide the HPC and
the City Council in evaluating properties for designation as Farmington
heritage landmarks:
      1.   The quality of significance in history, architecture, archaeology,
and culture is present in buildings, sites, structures, objects and districts
that possess integrity of location, design, setting, materials, workmanship,
feeling, and association, and:
(a) That are associated with specific events or a pattern of events that have
made a significant contribution to the broad patterns of our history; or
(b) That are associated with the lives of persons or groups significant in our
past; or
(c) That embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or method of
construction, or that represent the work of a master builder, or that possess
high artistic values, or that represent a significant and distinguishable
entity those components may lack individual distinction; or
(d) That have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important in
prehistory or history.
      2.   The singular physical appearance, historic character or aesthetic
value of an established or familiar feature of a neighborhood or community
within the city.
   (B)   Findings Of Significance: The HPC shall determine if a historic
property is eligible for designation as a Farmington heritage landmark and
issue a written finding of significance.
   (C)   Council Designation, Hearings: The city council, upon recommendation
of the HPC, may by resolution designate a Farmington heritage landmark. Prior
to such designation, the city council shall hold a public hearing, notice of
which shall have been published in the official newspaper at least ten (10)
days prior to the date of the hearing and mailed notice sent to the owner(s) of
the property which is proposed to be designated a heritage landmark and to all
owners of property lying adjacent to the historic property.
   (D)   Communication With The Minnesota Historical Society: Prior to
designating a Farmington heritage landmark, the city shall forward information
concerning the proposed designation to the Minnesota Historical Society for
review and comment in accordance with Minnesota Statutes Annotated section
471.193.
   (E)   Designation Of Heritage Landmarks On The Zoning Map: The city shall
place designated Farmington heritage landmark properties on the official city
zoning map. (Ord. 099-422, 2-16-1999)
2-11-5: DESIGN REVIEW:
   (A)   Review Of Permits: The HPC shall review and make recommendations to
the city council concerning the issuance of city permits to do any of the
following in relation to a property designated as a Farmington heritage
landmark:
      1.   Demolition of a historic building or structure.
      2.   Moving a historic building, structure, or object.
      3.   New construction of a principal building or accessory structure.
   (B)   Alterations: The HPC shall determine whether the proposed activity
will alter, disturb, deface or materially change the appearance or use of a
heritage landmark. The HPC may recommend to the city council conditions for
permit approval that it deems reasonable and appropriate.
   (C)   Certificate Of Appropriateness: No permit will be issued by the city
unless a certificate of appropriateness has been granted by the HPC. A copy of
the certificate of appropriateness shall be attached to the permit when issued,
and a copy filed with the city building official. A certificate of
appropriateness shall become void twenty four (24) months after issuance unless
a city permit has been issued.
   (D)   Development Projects: Every application for a preliminary or final
plat, variance or conditional use permit in relation to a significant historic
property in the city shall be reviewed by the HPC and their recommendation
shall be forwarded to the planning commission for consideration in making their
recommendation to the city council. In determining whether or not a project
will have an adverse effect upon a significant historic property, the HPC shall
consider the following factors:
      1.   Whether the development will substantially alter the appearance of a
historic building, site, structure, object or district so as to remove the
features which distinguish the historic property as a heritage landmark; and
      2.   Whether the use of the property will destroy, disturb or endanger a
known or suspected archaeological feature.
   (E)   Design Review Standards And Guidelines: The secretary of the
interior's standards for the treatment of historic properties shall be the
required basis for permit review decisions. The city may adopt design review
guidelines; in the absence of such guidelines, design review decisions will be
based upon the current secretary of the interior guidelines for preservation,
rehabilitation, restoration and reconstruction.
   (F)   Outside Technical Advice: The HPC may seek technical advice from
outside its members on any design review.
   (G)   Appeals: Any party aggrieved by a decision of the HPC shall, within
ten (10) days of the HPC's action approving or denying a certificate of
appropriateness, have a right to appeal such decision to the city council. When
denying a certificate of appropriateness, the HPC shall advise the permit
applicant of their right to file a written notice with the city administrator
requesting city council review of the action taken by the HPC. Upon receipt of
the notice of appeal, the city administrator shall transmit one copy to the
HPC. (Ord. 099-422, 2-16-1999)
2-11-6: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
It shall be a misdemeanor to alter, disturb, deface or materially change the
appearance or use of a designated Farmington heritage landmark without a
certificate of appropriateness. (Ord. 099-422, 2-16-1999)
2-11-7: REPOSITORY FOR DOCUMENTS:
The office of the city administrator is designated as the repository for all
reports, studies, minutes, and other documents produced by the HPC. (Ord. 099-
422, 2-16-1999)
FA192   3t.txt
TITLE 3
BUSINESS REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
MOBILE HOMES AND MOBILE HOME PARKS
(Rep. by Ord. 082-132, 7-26-1982)
fa192   3-2
CHAPTER 2
BEER
SECTION:
3-2-1: Definitions
3-2-2: License Required
3-2-3: Application
3-2-4: License Fees
3-2-5: Granting of License; Regulations
3-2-6: Sales; Closing Hours
3-2-7: Minors
3-2-8: Financial Responsibility
3-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Chapter,except where the context otherwise requires,
the terms defined herein shall have the meanings given them:
NONINTOXICATING MALT LIQUOR: The term "nonintoxicating malt liquor" shall mean
any malt liquor containing not less than one-half of one percent (.5%) alcohol
by volume nor more than three and two-tenths percent (3.2%) alcohol by weight
and is a fermented malt beverage.
COMMISSIONER: The word "Commissioner" shall mean the Liquor Control
Commissioner.
ON-SALE: The term "on-sale" shall mean any sale of nonintoxicating malt liquor
to be consumed on the licensed premises.
OFF-SALE: The term "off-sale" shall mean any sale of nonintoxicating malt
liquor to be consumed off the premises.
BONA FIDE CLUB: The term "bona fide club" shall mean an organization organized
for social purposes, business purposes, for intellectual improvement, or for
the promotion of sports where the serving of nonintoxicating malt liquor is
incidental to and not the main purpose of the club 1 . (1970 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. M.S.A., Sec. 340.001.
3-2-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall deal in, vend or dispose of, by sale or gift, any
nonintoxicating malt liquor without first having been licensed so to do by the
Council.
3-2-3: APPLICATION:
Any person desiring to sell nonintoxicating malt liquors in the City shall, in
writing, make application to the Council and at that time deposit the license
fee fixed therefor with the Clerk, which fee shall be returned to the applicant
if the application is denied. (Ord. 96, 3-30-33)
3-2-4: LICENSE FEES:
   (A)   Retail on-sale licenses shall permit the licensee to sell such
nonintoxicating malt liquors for consumption on the licensed premises, and the
license fee therefor shall be an annual sum to be set by the Council. On-sale
licenses shall be granted only to drugstores, restaurants, hotels, bona fide
clubs and establishments for the sale of @nonintoxicating malt beverages,
cigars, cigarettes, all forms of tobacco, beverages and soft drinks at retail.
   (B)   Retail off-sale licenses shall permit the licensee to sell
nonintoxicating malt liquors in original packages for consumption off the
premises only, and the license fee therefor shall be an annual sum to be set by
the Council. (Ord. 141, 3-5-62; amd. 1970 Code)
3-2-5: GRANTING OF LICENSE; REGULATIONS:
The Council may grant or deny any such application, and if granted may be
revoked by the Council at any time without any hearing or notice to the
licensee.
No "on-sale" license shall be granted permitting the sale of any such malt
liquor on any premises within the corporate limits of the City unless such
location is specifically approved by the Council. The provisions of Title 10 as
pertaining to Zoning shall not apply to the location of premises used for the
sale of malt liquor; nor shall any license be granted to an applicant unless he
is the actual owner or proprietor of the place where such malt liquors are
intended to be sold; nor shall any license be granted to other than drug
stores, restaurants, hotels or bona fide clubs; provided, however, that "off-
sale" licenses may be granted a person who for one year prior to the granting
of a license has maintained a mercantile business upon the premises described
in said license as the place where such malt liquors are intended to be sold.
(Ord. 96, 3-30-33 amd. 1970 Code)
3-2-6: SALES; CLOSING HOURS:
No sale of nonintoxicating malt liquor shall be made between the hours of one
o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on any weekday Monday through
Saturday inclusive. Neither shall any sale of such liquor be made on an( Sunday
between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and twelve o'clock (12:00) noon,
nor between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
on the day of any Statewide election. (12-27-71)
3-2-7: MINORS:
It shall be unlawful for any:
   (A)   Licensee or his employee to sell or serve nonintoxicating malt liquor
to any minor or to permit any minor to consume nonintoxicating malt liquor on
the licensed premises or to permit any minor to loiter or to remain in the room
where nonintoxicating malt liquor is being sold or served unless accompanied by
his parent or legal guardian;
   (B)   Person other than the parent or legal guardian to procure
nonintoxicating malt liquor for any minor;
   (C)   Person to induce a minor to purchase or procure nonintoxicating malt
liquor;
   (D)   Minor to misrepresent his age for the purpose of obtaining
nonintoxicating malt liquor;
   (E)   Minor to consume any nonintoxicating malt liquor unless in the company
of his parent or guardian;
   (F)   Minor to have in his possession any nonintoxicating malt liquor, with
intent to consume same at a place other than the household of his parent or
guardian. Possession of such nonintoxicating malt liquor at a place other than
the household of his parent or guardian shall be prima facie evidence of intent
to consume the same at a place other than the household of his parent or
guardian. (1970 Code)
3-2-8: FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
Every person licensed to sell at retail intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating
malt liquor at on-sale or off-sale shall demonstrate proof of financial
responsibility with regard to liability imposed by Title 3, Chapter 12, Section
9 of the Farmington City Code as a condition of the issuance or renewal of his
license, provided that this Section shall not apply to on-sale nonintoxicating
malt liquor licenses with gross sales of less than ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) of nonintoxicating malt liquor per year and off-sale
nonintoxicating malt liquor license with sales of less than twenty thousand
dollars ($20,000.00) per year; and also provided that the holder of such
nonintoxicating malt liquor license shall provide the City of Farmington
Administrator a sworn affidavit which verifies that the prior year's gross
sales of on-sale nonintoxicating malt liquor did not exceed ten thousand
dollars ($10,000.00) or off-sale nonintoxicating malt liquor did not exceed
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00). Such affidavit shall also include a
statement that at such time during the term of the license period gross sales
of on-sale nonintoxicating malt liquors shall equal ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) or off-sale nonintoxicating malt liquor gross sales shall equal
twenty thousand dollars ($20,000.00), all further sales of nonintoxicating malt
liquors shall cease for the duration of the licensing period. Every retailer
licensed to sell nonintoxicating malt liquor shall maintain records and
inventory control of sales of nonintoxicating malt liquors which will
accurately reflect the gross amount of such sales, and such records shall be
available at all reasonable times to the City for inspection and review. (Ord.
083-157, 12-19-83)
fa192   3-3
CHAPTER 3
JUNK YARDS
SECTION:
3-3-1: Definitions
3-3-2: Business Prohibited
3-3-3: Abandonment of Vehicles, Prohibited
3-3-4: Leaving of Wrecked, @Nonoperating Vehicles on Street
3-3-5: Disposition of Wrecked or Discarded Vehicles
3-3-6: Enforcement
3-3-7: Penalty
3-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
JUNK BUSINESS: The term "junk business" shall mean the purchase or collection
of articles which from their worn condition are rendered useless for the
purpose for which they were made, whether consisting of rags, iron, brass,
lead, copper, rope, bottles, bones, tinware, rubber, bagging or other
materials.
JUNK YARD or AUTOMOBILE WRECKING YARD: The terms "junk yard" or "automobile
wrecking yard" shall mean any lot or other area used for the dismantling or
scrapping of old automobiles or other motor vehicles.
PERSON: The term "person" shall mean any person, firm, partnership,
association, corporation, company or organization of any kind.
VEHICLE: The term "vehicle" shall mean any object designed to transport persons
or property with or without motive power.
STREET or HIGHWAY: The terms "street" or "highway" shall mean the entire width
between the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part
thereon is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
PROPERTY: The term "property' shall mean any real property within the City
which is not a street or highway.
3-3-2: BUSINESS PROHIBITED:
No person shall engage in the junk business in the City, nor shall any person
maintain a junk yard or automobile wrecking yard in the City.
3-3-3: ABANDONMENT OF VEHICLES, PROHIBITED:
No person shall abandon any vehicle within the City and no person shall leave
any vehicle at any place within the City for such time and under such
circumstances as to cause such vehicle reasonably to appear to have been
abandoned.
3-3-4: LEAVING OF WRECKED, @NONOPERATING VEHICLES ON STREET:
No person shall leave any partially dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked or junked
vehicle on any street or highway within the City.
3-3-5: DISPOSITION OF WRECKED OR DISCARDED VEHICLES:
No person in charge or control of any property within the City, whether as
owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall allow any unlicensed
vehicle, or any partially dismantled, nonoperating, junked or discarded vehicle
to remain on such property longer than seventy two (72) hours; and no person
shall leave any such vehicle on any property within the City for a longer time
than seventy two (72) hours; except that this Section shall not apply with
regard to a vehicle in an enclosed building, a vehicle on the premises of a
business enterprise operated in a lawful place and manner,, when necessary to
the operating of such business enterprise, or a vehicle in an appropriate
storage place or depository maintained in a lawful place and manner by the
City.
3-3-6: ENFORCEMENT:
The Police Department or any members thereof, are hereby authorized to remove
or have removed any vehicle left at any place within the City which reasonably
appears to be in violation of this Chapter or lost, stolen or unclaimed or
disposed of.
3-3-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, each day such violation is committed or permitted to continue
shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punishable as such. (6-21-71)
FA192   3-4.txt
CHAPTER 4
FOOD HANDLERS
(Rep. by Ord. 76-41, 5-16-1976)
FA192   3-5.txt
CHAPTER 5
RUBBISH HAULERS
(Rep. by Ord. 80-96, 9-15-1980)
FA192   3-6.txt
CHAPTER 6
MOVING BUILDINGS
(Rep. by Ord. 77-55, 5-23-1977)
FA192   3-7.txt
CHAPTER 7
DISTRIBUTION OF TOBACCO RELATED PRODUCTS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Purpose
3-7-2: Definitions And Interpretations
3-7-3: License
3-7-4: Application For License Or Permit
3-7-5: Basis For Denial Of License
3-7-6: Prohibited Sales
3-7-7: Vending Machines
3-7-8: Self-Service Sales
3-7-9: Responsibility
3-7-10: Compliance Checks And Inspections
3-7-11: Other Illegal Acts
3-7-12: Violations
3-7-13: Penalties
3-7-14: Exceptions And Defenses
3-7-15: Severability And Saving Clause
3-7-16: Sale Of Electronic Delivery Device; Packaging
3-7-1: PURPOSE:
Because the city recognizes that many persons under the age of twenty-one (21)
years purchase or otherwise obtain, tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco
related devices; and such sales are violations of both state and federal laws,
and persons under the age of eighteen (18) possess and use tobacco, tobacco
products, and tobacco related devices and because smoking has been shown to be
the cause of several serious health problems which subsequently place a
financial burden on all levels of government; this chapter shall be intended to
regulate the sale, possession, and use of tobacco, tobacco products, and
tobacco related devices for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing
laws, to protect minors against the serious effects associated with the illegal
use of tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices, and to further
the official public policy of the state in regard to preventing young people
from starting to smoke as stated in Minnesota Statutes Annotated 144.391. (Ord.
097-407, 11-3-1997; Ord. 020-750, 2-18-2020)
3-7-2: DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The singular shall include
the plural and the plural shall include the singular. The masculine shall
include the feminine and neuter, and vice versa. The term "shall" means
mandatory and the term "may" means permissive. The following terms shall have
the definitions given to them:
COMPLIANCE CHECKS: The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices
are following and complying with the requirements of this chapter. Compliance
checks shall involve the use of minors as authorized by this chapter.
Compliance checks shall also mean the use of minors who attempt to purchase
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices for educational, research
and training purposes as authorized by state and federal laws. Compliance
checks may also be conducted by other units of government for the purpose of
enforcing appropriate federal, state or local laws and regulations relating to
tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE: Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance intended for human consumption that can be used
by a person to simulate smoking in the delivery of nicotine or any other
substance through inhalation of vapor from the product. Electronic delivery
device includes any component part of a product, whether or not marketed or
sold separately. Electronic delivery device does not include any product that
has been approved or certified by the United States food and drug
administration for sale as a tobacco cessation product, as a tobacco dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is marketed and sold for such an
approved purpose.
INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED: The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco product
wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, single cans or other packaging of
snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this definition shall not be
considered individually packaged.
LOOSIES: The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette.
MINOR: Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of twenty-one (21)
years.
MOVABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any form of business operated out of a truck, van,
automobile, or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a fixed
address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for sales
transactions.
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products, or
tobacco related devices are available for sale to the general public. Retail
establishments shall include, but not be limited to, grocery stores,
convenience stores, and restaurants.
SALE: Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING: Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products, or
tobacco related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices, without the assistance
or intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee. The assistance or
intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco related device between the customer and the licensee or
employee. Self-service merchandising shall not include vending machines. (Note:
Under the FDA tobacco regulations adopted in 1996, self-service sales are
interpreted as being any sale where there is not an actual physical exchange of
the tobacco between the clerk and the customer.)
TOBACCO OR TOBACCO PRODUCTS: Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including, but not limited to, cigarettes; cigars; pipe tobacco; snuff; fine
cut or other chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated; plug cut;
crimp cut; ready rubbed and other smoking tobacco; snuff flowers; cavendish;
shorts; plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos; refuse scraps, clippings,
cuttings and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in such manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing or smoking.
TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES: Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling papers,
or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used in a manner which
enables the chewing, sniffing or smoking of tobacco or tobacco related
products.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens, or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco related device. (Ord. 097-407, 11-3-1997; amd. Ord. 015-688, 3-2-2015;
Ord. 020-750, 2-18-2020)
3-7-3: LICENSE:
No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco
related device without first having obtained a license to do so from the city.
   (A)   Application: An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
related products, or tobacco related devices shall be made on a form provided
by the city. The application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the
applicant's residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name
of the business for which the license is sought, and any additional information
the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed application, the city
clerk shall forward the application to the council for action at its next
regularly scheduled council meeting. If the clerk shall determine that an
application is incomplete, he or she shall return the application to the
applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
   (B)   Action: The council may either approve or deny the license, or it may
delay action for such reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
council shall approve the license, the clerk shall issue the license to the
applicant. If the council denies the license, notice of the denial shall be
given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant's right to appeal the
council's decision.
   (C)   Term: All licenses issued under this Chapter shall be valid for up to
one calendar year from the date of issue, but all licenses issued under this
Chapter shall expire on December 31 of each year.
   (D)   Revocation Or Suspension: Any license issued under this Chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in Sections
3-7-12 and
3-7-13 of this Chapter.
   (E)   Transfers: All licenses issued under this Chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the Council.
   (F)   Moveable Place Of Business: No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this Chapter.
   (G)   Display: All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   (H)   Renewals: The renewal of a license issued under this Section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for renewal
shall be made at least thirty (30) days but not more than sixty (60) days
before the expiration of the current license. The issuance of a license issued
under this Chapter shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute right of
the applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the
license. (Ord. 097-407, 11-3-1997)
3-7-4: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE OR PERMIT:
Unless otherwise provided, applications for a license or permit shall be made
in writing to the City Clerk and applicants shall state the location of the
proposed activity and such other facts as may be required for or be applicable
to the granting of such license or permit. (Ord. 097-407, 11-3-1997)
3-7-5: BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license
under this Chapter; however, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the
existence of any particular ground for denial does not mean that the City must
deny the license. If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it
shall be revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the
license under this Section.
   (A)   The applicant is under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   (B)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five (5) years of any
violation of a Federal, State or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products, or tobacco-related devices.
   (C)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco-related devices revoked within the preceding twelve (12) months of the
date of application.
   (D)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information.
   (E)   The applicant is prohibited by Federal, State or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation, from holding such a license. (Ord. 097-407, 11-
3-1997)
3-7-6: PROHIBITED SALES:
It shall be a violation of this Chapter for any person to sell or offer to sell
any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco- related device:
   (A)   To any person under the age of twenty-one (21) years.
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in this Chapter.
   (C)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premises in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco-related device
between the licensee or the licensee's employee, and the customer.
   (D)   By means of "loosies" as defined in Section
3-7-2 of this Chapter.
   (E)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process.
   (F)   By any other means, to any other person, or in any other manner or
form prohibited by Federal, State or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation. (Ord. 097-407, 11-3-1997; Ord. 020-750, 2-18-2020)
3-7-7: VENDING MACHINES:
It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this Chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-related devices by the means of a
vending machine unless minors are at all times prohibited from entering the
licensed establishment. (Ord. 097-407, 11-3-1997)
3-7-8: SELF-SERVICE SALES:
It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this Chapter to allow the sale of
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco- related devices by any means whereby the
customer may have access to such items without having to request the item from
the licensee or the licensee's employee and whereby there is not a physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, or the tobacco-related device between
the licensee or his or her clerk and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco
products, and tobacco-related devices shall either be stored behind a counter
or other area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage
unit not left open and accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-related devices at the time this Chapter
is adopted shall comply with this Section within fourteen (14) days. (Ord. 097-
407, 11-3-1997)
3-7-9: RESPONSIBILITY:
All licensees under this Chapter shall be responsible for the actions of their
employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-
related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of such an item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
Section shall be construed as prohibiting the City from also subjecting the
clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this Chapter, State or
Federal law, or other applicable law or regulation. (Ord. 097-407, 11-3-1997)
3-7-10: COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS:
All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the City police or other
authorized City official during regular business hours. From time to time, but
at least once per year, the City shall conduct compliance checks by engaging,
with the written consent of their parents or guardians, minors over the age of
fifteen (15) years but less than twenty-one (21) years, to enter the licensed
premises to attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-related
devices. Minors used for the purpose of compliance checks shall be supervised
by City-designated law enforcement officers or other designated City personnel.
Minors used for compliance checks shall not be guilty of unlawful possession of
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco-related devices when such items are
obtained as part of the compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks
shall attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting the minor's age,
and all minors lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all
questions about the minor's age asked by the licensee or his or her employee
and shall produce any identification, if any exists, for which he or she is
asked. Nothing in this Section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by
State or Federal laws for educational, research, or training purposes, or
required for the enforcement of a particular State or Federal law. (Ord. 097-
407, 11-3-1997; Ord. 020-750, 2-18-2020)
3-7-11: OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS:
Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
Chapter:
   (A)   For any person to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco-related device to any minor.
   (B)   For any minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco-related device. This subsection shall not apply to minors
lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (C)   For any minor to smoke, chew, sniff, or otherwise use any tobacco,
tobacco product, or tobacco-related device.
   (D)   For any minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain
any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco- related device, and it shall be a
violation of this Chapter for any person to purchase or otherwise obtain such
items on behalf of a minor. It shall further be a violation for any person to
coerce or attempt to coerce a minor to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain
or use any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco-related device. This subsection
shall not apply to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (E)   For any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of
a false form of identification, whether the identification is that of another
person or one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with
to represent an age older than the actual age of the person. (Ord. 097-407, 11-
3-1997)
3-7-12: VIOLATIONS:
   (A)   Notice: Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged violator
shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his or her
right to be heard on the accusation.
   (B)   Hearings: If a person accused of violating this chapter so requests, a
hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be published and
provided to the accused violator.
   (C)   Hearing Officer: The city shall serve as the hearing officer.
   (D)   Decision: If the hearing officer determines that a violation of this
chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officer's reasons for
finding a violation and the penalty imposed under section
3-7-13 of this chapter, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be
provided to the accused violator. Likewise, if the hearing officer finds that
no violation occurred or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, such
findings shall be recorded and a copy provided to the acquitted accused
violator.
   (E)   Appeals: Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer shall be
filed in the district court for the city in which the violation occurred.
   (F)   Misdemeanor Prosecution: Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking a prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter. If the city elects to seek misdemeanor prosecution, no
administrative penalty shall be imposed.
   (G)   Continued Violation: Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 097-
407, 11-3-1997)
3-7-13: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Licensees: Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or whose
employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged an administrative
fine of seventy five dollars ($75.00) for a first violation of this chapter;
two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a second offense at the same licensed
premises within a twenty four (24) month period; and two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) for a third or subsequent offense at the same location within a
twenty four (24) month period. In addition, after the second offense the
license shall be suspended for not less than three (3) days; after the third
offense the license shall be suspended for not less than seven (7) days.
   (B)   Other Individuals: Other individuals, other than minors regulated by
subsection (C) of this section, found to be in violation of this chapter shall
be charged an administrative fee of fifty dollars ($50.00).
   (C)   Misdemeanor: Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from
seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of this chapter. (Ord.
097-407, 11-3-1997)
3-7-14: EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES:
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco, tobacco
products, or tobacco related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully
recognized religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremony. It shall be an
affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter for a person to have
reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law. (Ord. 097-407, 11-
3-1997)
3-7-15: SEVERABILITY AND SAVING CLAUSE:
If any section or portion of this chapter shall be found unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, that
finding shall not serve as an invalidation or affect the validity and
enforceability of any other section or provision of this chapter. (Ord. 097-
407, 11-3-1997)
3-7-16: SALE OF ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE; PACKAGING:
   (A)   For purposes of this section, "child resistant packaging" is defined
as set forth in code of federal regulations, title 16, section 1700.15(b)(1),
as in effect on January 1, 2015, when tested in accordance with the method
described in code of federal regulations, title 16, section 1700.20, as in
effect on January 1, 2015.
   (B)   The sale of any liquid, whether or not such liquid contains nicotine,
that is intended for human consumption and use in an electronic delivery
device, as defined in this chapter or Minnesota statutes section 609.685,
subdivision 1, that is not contained in packaging that is child resistant, is
prohibited. All licensees under this chapter must ensure that any liquid
intended for human consumption and use in an electronic delivery device is sold
in child resistant packaging.
   (C)   A licensee that fails to comply with this section is subject to
administrative penalties under Minnesota statutes section 461.12, subdivision
2. (Ord. 015-688, 3-2-2015)
FA192   3-8.txt
CHAPTER 8
THEATERS
(Rep. 8-16-1971)
FA192   3-9.txt
CHAPTER 9
TRANSIENT MERCHANTS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 76-42, 8-16-1976)
 
Notes
1 1. See Ch. 3-18, Peddlers, Solicitors and Transient Merchants.
CHAPTER 10
TAXICABS
(Rep. by Ord. 017-729, 8-21-2017)
CHAPTER 11
CONSUMPTION OF LIQUOR ON PUBLIC THOROUGHFARES
SECTION:
3-11-1: Definition
3-11-2: Penalty
3-11-3: Enforcement
3-11-4: Prohibition
3-11-5: Exceptions
3-11-1: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this Ordinance "intoxicating liquor" is as defined in Title 3,
Chapter 12, of the City Code and "nonintoxicating malt liquor" is as defined in
Title 3, Chapter 2, of the City Code.
3-11-2: PENALTY:
Any person violating this Ordinance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall
be punishable as such.
3-11-3: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the responsibility of the Farmington Police Department to enforce
this Ordinance.
3-11-4: PROHIBITION:
It is unlawful for any person to drink or to display in an open container any
intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating malt liquor upon any public street,
alley, sidewalk, walkway or thoroughfare within the City limits of Farmington.
3-11-5: EXCEPTIONS:
The City Council may, at its discretion grant an exception to this Ordinance
for a specified period of time, by proclamation to accommodate a public civic
or municipal activity, community-wide, such as a celebration or festival. (Ord.
074-7, 11-4-74)
fa192   3-11A
CHAPTER 11A
BOTTLE CLUBS
SECTION:
3-11A-1: Permit Applications
3-11A-2: Fees
3-11A-3: Disqualifications
3-11A-4: Regulation of Establishments Granted Permits
3-11A-5: Cancellation
3-11A-1:   PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
The provisions of M.S. 1967, Section 340.119, as amended, are hereby adopted by
reference for the regulations pertaining to permits for the consumption and
display of intoxicating liquor.
3-11A-2:   FEES:
In addition to the fee provided by statute, the City Council may impose a fee
in such an amount as may be established from time to time, but not to exceed
three hundred dollars ($300.00).
3-11A-3:   DISQUALIFICATIONS:
   (A)   Federal Tax Stamp: No permit will be issued to holders of Federal
Retail Liquor Dealer's Special Tax Stamps. Answers to questions on the
Commissioner's application form relating to such stamps will be compared with
records in the Commissioner's office supplied by the Federal Internal Revenue
Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to consume or display, or allow consumption or
display of intoxicating liquor on any premises of a private club or public
place between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M.
   (C)   No application from any person who has been convicted of a violation
of law concerning the sale of intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating malt
beverages within the past five (5) years will be considered.
3-11A-4:   REGULATION OF ESTABLISHMENTS GRANTED PERMITS:
   (A)   Private Club: In clubs that qualify for a permit, bottles of
intoxicating liquor may be left on the club bar by members for serving only to
the owner-member and his bona fide guests, but said bottle or bottles shall not
be stored at the bar in the owner's absence. Before the owner leaves the
premises he shall remove his own bottle or bottles from the bar and place them
in his individual locker, or take them from the premises.
   (B)   Public Places: In any public place granted a permit, no bottle of
intoxicating liquor shall be given to the bar attendant or any employee for
serving to the owner of the bottle. All bottles in such public places shall be
kept in plain sight by the owner and shall be in his possession and under his
control at all times.
   (C)   No intoxicating liquor may be stored on the premises of any public
place holding a permit under this Section. The purchase of intoxicating liquor
by a licensee, manager or employee of a private club or public place acting as
agent for the member or patron is prohibited.
   (D)   No minors shall be permitted to loiter or remain on any premises
licensed under Minn. St. 1967, Section 340.119, unless accompanied by parent or
guardian.
   (E)   The transfer of permits issued in accordance with Minn. St. 1967,
Section 340.119, is prohibited unless such transfer is approved by the
Commissioner. Any change in the location, ownership or corporation will
constitute a transfer for the purposes of this Article.
3-11A-5:   CANCELLATION:
Any violations of these regulations will constitute grounds for cancellation of
the permit. (Ord. 077-58, 6-20-77)
FA192   3-12.txt
CHAPTER 12
ON-SALE LIQUOR; SALE OF
SECTION:
3-12-1: State Law Provisions Adopted
3-12-2: Definitions
3-12-3: License Required
3-12-4: Types Of Licenses
3-12-5: License Application
3-12-5-1: Contents Of Initial Application
3-12-5-2: Renewal Applications
3-12-5-3: Execution Of Application
3-12-6: Granting Licenses
3-12-6-1: Investigation
3-12-6-2: Hearing Requirements
3-12-6-3: Granting License; Vote Required
3-12-6-4: Issuance; Transfer; Buildings Under Construction
3-12-6-5: Report To State
3-12-7: License Fees
3-12-7-1: Fees Established
3-12-7-2: Payment Of Fees
3-12-7-3: Refunds
3-12-7-4: Change Of Ownership; Exception
3-12-8: Conditions Of License
3-12-8-1: Compliance With Laws
3-12-8-2: Posting License
3-12-8-3: Responsibility Of Licensee; Hours, Orderly Conduct
3-12-8-4: Hours Of Operation
3-12-8-5: Beverage Restrictions
3-12-8-6: Ownership Of Equipment
3-12-8-7: Display Of Liquor
3-12-8-8: Prohibited Conditions
3-12-8-9: Right Of Inspection
3-12-8-10: Continued Validity Of License
3-12-8-11: Special Conditions
3-12-9: Security
3-12-9-1: Bonds, Insurance Or Deposit Required (Rep. by Ord. 089-222, 10-16-
1989)
3-12-9-2: Surety Of Insurance Companies (Rep. by Ord. 089-222, 10-16-1989)
3-12-9-3: Terms Of Bond (Rep. by Ord. 089-222, 10-16-1989)
3-12-9-4: Procedure For Use Of Cash Or Government Bonds (Rep. by Ord. 089-222,
10-16-1989)
3-12-9-5: Proof Of Financial Responsibility
3-12-10: Public Character Of Liquor Sales
3-12-11: Persons Ineligible For License
3-12-12: Restrictions Involving Minors
3-12-12-1: Prohibited Acts
3-12-12-2: Misrepresenting Age
3-12-12-3: Identification Requirements
3-12-13: Revocation Of License
3-12-13-1: Grounds For Revocation
3-12-13-2: Inactive License
3-12-13-3: Hearing; Notice
3-12-14: Building Changes; Report Required
3-12-15: Presumptive Civil Penalties
3-12-1: STATE LAW PROVISIONS ADOPTED:
The provisions of Minnesota statutes, chapter 340A, as amended, with reference
to the definition of terms, application for license, conditions of license,
restrictions of consumption, provisions on sales, condition of bonds of
licenses, hours of sale, and all other matters pertaining to the retail sale,
distribution and consumption of intoxicating liquor are hereby adopted and made
a part of this chapter as if fully set out herein, except as hereinafter
modified. (Ord. 015-703, 10-19-2015)
3-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
given them herein.
RESTAURANT: Any establishment other than a hotel, under the control of a single
proprietor or manager having appropriate facilities for the serving of meals,
and where, in consideration of payment therefor, meals are regularly served at
tables to the general public, and which employs an adequate staff to provide
the usual and suitable service to its guests, and the principal part of the
business of which is the service of foods. Such establishment shall designate a
specific area for dining which shall have facilities for seating not less than
fifty (50) guests at one time. Tables in said dining area shall be set with
appropriate silverware or flatware, dishes, glassware, condiments, and the like
to accommodate guests of the establishment. No intoxicating beverage shall be
served or consumed at tables in the dining area except in conjunction with and
as an accompaniment to meals ordered and served. No cover charge, entry fee,
admission charge or similar monetary cost shall be collected by or paid to the
establishment for guests who utilize the dining area. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983,
eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
With the exception of the municipally owned liquor store and except as provided
in Minnesota statutes 340A, no person shall directly or indirectly deal in,
sell, keep for sale or deliver any intoxicating liquor without first having
received a license to do so as provided in this chapter; nor shall any private
club or public place, directly or indirectly or upon any pretense or by any
device, allow the consumption or display of intoxicating liquor or serve any
liquid for the purpose of mixing with intoxicating liquor without first having
obtained a license therefor from the city as provided in this chapter, except
as otherwise expressly provided in this chapter. Except as otherwise expressly
provided herein, the provisions of this chapter regulating licensed
establishments shall also apply to municipally owned liquor establishments.
(Ord. 015-703, 10-19-2015)
3-12-4: TYPES OF LICENSES:
   (A)   On-Sale Intoxicating Liquor License: "On-sale" intoxicating liquor
license shall be granted only to hotels and restaurants for the sale of "on-
sale" liquor.
      1.   Initial Investment Required: No on-sale licenses shall be granted to
any person who does not have invested or does not propose to invest in the
business, including, but not limited to, all fees, site development,
construction costs, utilities, furnishings and fixtures, but exclusive of land
costs, an amount of at least one hundred fifty thousand dollars ($150,000.00)
based upon current construction costs. The required amount shall be annually
adjusted upward or downward by the city council to reflect changes in
construction costs as reflected in commonly accepted construction cost indexes.
In the case of multipurpose buildings such as motels and hotels, only that
portion of the building directly attributable to the preparation, handling,
storing or serving of food and liquor shall be considered in determining the
value of the investment. The council may provide for an independent appraisal,
at applicant's expense, as an aid in determining the value of said premises. In
the event this requirement as to investment is not complied with within one
year from the date of issuance of the license, the license may be revoked.
      2.   Renewal: The minimum investment for the renewal of licenses issued
prior to the effective date of this provision shall be the investment required
when the license was first issued plus any subsequent investment voluntarily
made.
      3.   Transfer: A licensee to whom an existing license is transferred
shall not be required to increase the investment in the business beyond that
required when the license was first issued plus any subsequent investment
voluntarily made. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
   (B)   "Special Club Licenses": Special on-sale licenses shall be issued only
to clubs in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota statutes 340A. (Ord.
015-703, 10-19-2015)
   (C)   "On-Sale Sunday Liquor Sale License": On-sale Sunday liquor sale
licenses may be issued to establishments holding an on-sale liquor license or
club license and which have facilities for serving not less than fifty (50)
guests at one time. Such license shall permit the sale of liquor to be consumed
on the premises between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight on Sundays in conjunction with the serving of food. A
separate application for such license shall be made to the city in the same
manner as applications for other licenses to sell intoxicating liquor are made
hereunder. (Ord. 015-697, 5-18-2015)
   (D)   "Bottle Club License": Bottle club licenses may be issued to bottle
clubs and business establishments in accordance with the provisions of
Minnesota statutes 340A for the consumption or display of intoxicating liquor
or the serving of any liquid for the purpose of mixing with intoxicating
liquor. This subsection shall not apply to any person or premises otherwise
licensed by the city for the sale of intoxicating liquor. (Ord. 015-703, 10-19-
2015)
   (E)   "Wine License": Wine licenses shall be granted only to restaurants for
the sale of wine not exceeding fourteen percent (14%) alcohol by volume, for
consumption on the premises only, in conjunction with the sale of food.
A holder of an on-sale wine license who is also licensed to sell 3.2 percent
malt liquors at on-sale pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Annotated section
340A.411, and whose gross receipts are at least sixty percent (60%)
attributable to the sale of food, is authorized to sell intoxicating malt
liquors at on-sale without an additional license. (Ord. 012-648, 10-15-2012)
   (F)   "Cocktail Room License": Cocktail room licenses may be granted to the
holder of a microdistillery license in accordance with Minnesota statutes 340A.
A cocktail room license authorizes on-sale of distilled liquor produced by the
distiller for consumption on the premises of, or adjacent to, one distillery
location owned by the distiller. A microdistillery may be issued an off-sale
license subject to the limitations and requirements specified in state law.
   (G)   "Brewpub License": Brewpub licenses may be granted to a brewery for a
restaurant operated on the premises in accordance with Minnesota statutes 340A.
A brewpub off-sale malt liquor license may be issued, with approval of the
commissioner, subject to the requirement of Minnesota statutes 340A.
   (H)   "Taproom License": Taproom licenses may be granted to a brewery
licensed in accordance with Minnesota statutes 340A for on-sale of malt liquor
produced by the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to one
brewery location owned by the brewer. The license issued by the city may
authorize the licensee to conduct on-sale business on Sundays. The brewer may
be issued a license in accordance with state law for off-sale of malt liquor at
its licensed premises that has been produced and packaged by the brewer. (Ord.
015-703, 10-19-2015)
3-12-5: LICENSE APPLICATION:
3-12-5-1: CONTENTS OF INITIAL APPLICATION:
   (A)   General: In addition to the information which may be required by the
forms of the commissioner of public safety, the application shall contain
information as required by the city administrator and approved by resolution of
the city council. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-5-2: RENEWAL APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   License Period, Expiration: Each license shall be issued for a maximum
period of one year. All licenses expire on December 31 of each year.
   (B)   Time Of Making Application: Applications for the renewal of an
existing license shall be made at least sixty (60) days prior to the date of
the expiration of the license, and shall state that everything in the prior
application remains true and correct except as otherwise indicated. If, in the
judgment of the council, good and sufficient cause is shown by any applicant
for his failure to file for a renewal within the time period provided, the
council may, if the other provisions of this chapter are complied with, grant
the application. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-5-3: EXECUTION OF APPLICATION:
If the application is by a natural person, it shall be signed and sworn to by
such person; if by a corporation, by an officer thereof; if by a partnership,
by one of the partners; if by an unincorporated association, by the operating
officer or managing officer thereof. If the applicant is a partnership, the
application, license and bond or insurance policy shall be made and issued in
the name of all partners. It shall be unlawful to make any false statement in
an application. Applications shall be filed with the city clerk. (Ord. 083-156,
12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-6: GRANTING LICENSES:
3-12-6-1: INVESTIGATION:
At the time of making application, the applicant shall in writing authorize the
Farmington police department to investigate all facts set out in the
application and do a personal background and criminal record check on the
applicant. The applicant shall further authorize the police department to
release information received from such investigation to the city council.
Should the city council deny the applicant's request for a license due,
partially or solely, to the applicant's prior conviction of a crime, the city
council shall notify the applicant in writing of the following information:
   (A)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
   (B)   The applicable complaint and grievance procedure as set forth in
Minnesota statutes section 364.06;
   (C)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for a license; and
   (D)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered upon
reapplication. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-6-2: HEARING REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Notice Of Hearing: Upon receipt of the written report and
recommendation by the police department, and within twenty (20) days
thereafter, the clerk shall cause to be published in the official newspaper ten
(10) days in advance, a notice of hearing to be held by the council, setting
forth the date, time and place when the hearing will be held, the name of the
applicant, the premises where the business is to be conducted. (Ord. 089-216,
6-19-1989)
   (B)   Hearing On Renewal Application: No less than ten (10) nor more than
thirty (30) days after the date for submitting renewal applications, the
council shall hold a public hearing. Notice of the time and place of the
meeting and the fact that renewal applications will be considered shall be
published in the official newspaper ten (10) days in advance of the hearing.
   (C)   Cost Of Hearings: The cost of all hearings except uncontested, routine
renewal hearings shall be borne by the applicant. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983,
eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-6-3: GRANTING LICENSE; VOTE REQUIRED:
After such investigation and hearing, the council shall grant or refuse the
application in its discretion. A three-fifths (3/5) vote of the council shall
be required for the granting of a license. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-
1984)
3-12-6-4: ISSUANCE; TRANSFER; BUILDINGS UNDER CONSTRUCTION:
   (A)   Issuance Of License: Each license shall be issued to the applicant
only.
   (B)   License Issued For Exact Location; Transfer: Each license shall be
issued only for the exact rooms and square footage described in the
application. No license may be transferred to another person or to another
place without the approval of the council and without a new application having
been filed.
   (C)   Premises Under Construction: When a license is granted for premises
where the building is under construction or otherwise not ready for occupancy,
the clerk shall not issue the license until notified by the building inspector
that the building is ready for occupancy. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-
1984)
3-12-6-5: REPORT TO STATE:
The clerk shall, within ten (10) days after the issuance of any license under
this chapter, submit to the commissioner of public safety the full name and
address of each person granted a license, the true name, the effective license
date, and the date of expiration of the license. He shall also submit to the
commissioner of public safety any change of address, transfer, cancellation or
revocation of any license by the council during the license period. (Ord. 083-
156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-7: LICENSE FEES:
3-12-7-1: FEES ESTABLISHED:
   (A)   Annual Fees: The annual fees for licenses and investigations shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 083-156,
12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-7-2: PAYMENT OF FEES:
   (A)   Annual Fees: The license fee for a new license shall be the quarterly
amount paid before the application for the license is accepted. The annual
license fee for the renewal of an existing license shall be paid one-fourth (1/
4) thereof at least forty five (45) days prior to the expiration of the
existing license and the remaining three-fourths (3/4) in equal installments on
March 31, June 30, and September 30 of the year for which the license is
issued. The first one-fourth (1/4) of the license fee must be paid in full
before the application for a renewal of an existing license is accepted. All
fees shall be paid into the general fund of the city. Upon rejection of any
application for a license or upon withdrawal of an application before approval
of the issuance by the council, the license fee shall be refunded to the
applicant except where rejection is for a wilful misstatement in the
application. (Ord. 015-688, 3-2-2015)
   (B)   Timely Payment Of Fees Required: In the event that the licensee will
not make or tender the quarterly payments on or before the due dates as
specified in subsection (A) of this section, the license shall automatically be
suspended without a hearing as of the day following the date upon which the
fees are due, and said license shall remain suspended until all fees past due
shall be paid to the city. (Ord. 085-171, 12-2-1985)
3-12-7-3: REFUNDS:
No part of the fee paid for any license shall be refunded except as authorized
under Minnesota statutes section 340.112. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-
1984)
3-12-7-4: CHANGE OF OWNERSHIP; EXCEPTION:
Where a new application is filed as a result of incorporation by an existing
licensee and the ownership control and interest in the license are unchanged,
no additional investigation fee will be required. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983,
eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-8: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
3-12-8-1: COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS:
   (A)   City And State Laws: Every license shall be granted subject to the
conditions of this ordinance and of any other applicable ordinance of the city
and/or state law.
   (B)   Consumption And Display: No person shall mix or prepare intoxicating
liquor for consumption in any public place not licensed in accordance with the
ordinances of the city and the laws of the state of Minnesota.
   (C)   Area Of License: No license shall be effective beyond the areas
approved in the license for which it was granted. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983,
eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-8-2: POSTING LICENSE:
The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place in the licensed
establishment at all times. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-8-3: RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE; HOURS, ORDERLY CONDUCT:
Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his place of business
including conduct and activity off the premises attributable to the business.
(Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-8-4: HOURS OF OPERATION:
The provisions of Minnesota statutes chapter 340, with reference to the hours
of sale are hereby adopted and made a part of this chapter as if fully set out
herein. Persons other than employees of the licensee may not be in the premises
from thirty (30) minutes after the sale of nonintoxicating malt liquor is
prohibited until thirty (30) minutes before the sale is permitted. (Ord. 083-
156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-8-5: BEVERAGE RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   No intoxicating liquor shall be sold or furnished or delivered to any
obviously intoxicated person, to any known habitual drunkard, to any minor, or
to any person to whom the sale is prohibited by state law. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-
1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-8-6: OWNERSHIP OF EQUIPMENT:
No equipment or fixture in any licensed place shall be owned in whole or part
by any manufacturer or distiller of intoxicating liquor except such as shall be
expressly permitted by state law. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-8-7: DISPLAY OF LIQUOR:
No "on-sale" liquor establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-
1-1984)
3-12-8-8: PROHIBITED CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Prostitution: No licensee shall knowingly permit the licensed premises
or any room in those premises or any adjoining building directly under his
control to be used by prostitutes.
   (B)   Controlled Substances: No licensee shall knowingly permit the sale,
possession or consumption of controlled substances on the licensed premises in
violation of Minnesota statutes chapter 152.
   (C)   Gambling Prohibited: Gambling is prohibited unless licensed in
accordance with title 3, chapter 19 of this code. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983,
eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-8-9: RIGHT OF INSPECTION:
   (A)   Premises: Any police officer, building inspector or any properly
designated officer or employee of the city shall have the unqualified right to
enter, inspect and search the premises of any licensee hereunder at any time
without a warrant.
   (B)   Records: The business records of the licensee, including federal and
state tax returns, shall be available for inspection by the city at all
reasonable times upon written request. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-8-10: CONTINUED VALIDITY OF LICENSE:
   (A)   The licensed premises must be operated and managed by the license
holder. The license holder may not allow a prospective or actual buyer to
manage or operate the premises until that person is licensed.
   (B)   Licenses issued to corporations shall be valid only so long as there
is no change in the officers or ownership interest of the corporation, unless
such change is approved by the council, in which event said license shall
continue in force until the end of the then current license year.
   (C)   Licenses issued to associations or partnerships shall be valid only so
long as there is no change in the partnership or association agreement or in
the ownership of said partnership or association unless such change is approved
by the council, in which event said license shall continue in force until the
end of the then current license year.
   (D)   License holders shall submit written notice to the clerk of any such
changes described herein on or before thirty (30) days prior to the effective
date of any such change. Notwithstanding the definition of "interest" as given
in this chapter in the case of a corporation, the licensee shall notify the
clerk when a person not listed in the application acquires an interest which,
together with that of a spouse, parent, brother, sister or child, exceeds five
percent (5%) and shall give all information about said person as is required of
a person pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983,
eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-8-11: SPECIAL CONDITIONS:
At the time a license or license renewal is issued, the city may attach special
conditions to the license to protect the welfare of the community. Violation of
any of the conditions shall be grounds for revocation of the license. (Ord.
083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-9: SECURITY:
3-12-9-1: BONDS, INSURANCE OR DEPOSIT REQUIRED:
(Rep. by Ord. 089-222, 10-16-1989)
3-12-9-2: SURETY OF INSURANCE COMPANIES:
(Rep. by Ord. 089-222, 10-16-1989)
3-12-9-3: TERMS OF BOND:
(Rep. by Ord. 089-222, 10-16-1989)
3-12-9-4: PROCEDURE FOR USE OF CASH OR GOVERNMENT BONDS:
(Rep. by Ord. 089-222, 10-16-1989)
3-12-9-5: PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
All applications for any type of liquor license to be issued or renewed after
March 1, 1983, must as a condition to the issuance of the license, demonstrate
financial responsibility with regard to liability imposed by MSA section
340.95, to the city and the commissioner of the Minnesota department of public
safety. Proof of financial responsibility may be given by filing one of the
following:
   (A)   A certificate that there is in effect an insurance policy or pool
providing the following minimum coverages:
      1.   Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) because of bodily injury to any
one person in any one occurrence and, subject to the limit for one person, in
the amount of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) because of bodily
injury to two (2) or more persons in any one occurrence, and in the amount of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) because of injury to or destruction of
property of others in any one occurrence.
      2.   Fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for loss of means of support of
any one person in any one occurrence, and, subject to the limit for one person
one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for loss of means of support of two
(2) or more persons in any one occurrence; or
   (B)   A bond of a surety company with the minimum coverages as provided in
subsection (A) of this section; or
   (C)   A certificate of the state treasurer that the licensee has deposited
with him one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) in cash or securities which
may legally be purchased by savings banks or for trust funds having a market
value of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00).
If the insurance or other evidence of financial responsibility lapses during
the terms of any on sale or off sale liquor license issued under this chapter,
then such lapse shall act as an automatic suspension of the license issued
hereunder. Notice of cancellation of a liquor liability insurance policy shall
serve as notice to the licensee of the impending suspension. If evidence of
compliance with the financial responsibility requirement is not presented to
the city clerk or other licensing authority before the termination is
effective, the license shall be deemed suspended immediately upon lapse. (Ord.
083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-10: PUBLIC CHARACTER OF LIQUOR SALES:
No sales of intoxicating liquor shall be made to or in guest rooms of hotels
unless the rules of such hotel provide for the service of meals in guest rooms;
nor unless the sale of such intoxicating liquor is made in the manner on sales
are required to be made; nor unless such sale accompanies and is incidental to
the regular service of meals to guests therein; not unless the rules of such
hotel and the description, location and number of such guest rooms are fully
set out in the application for a license. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-
1984)
3-12-11: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE:
   (A)   State Law: No license shall be granted to or held by any person made
ineligible for such a license by state law.
   (B)   Manager Required: No license shall be granted to a corporation that
does not have an operating officer who is eligible pursuant to the provisions
of this chapter.
   (C)   Real Party In Interest: No license shall be granted to a person who is
the spouse of a person ineligible for a license pursuant to the provisions of
subsection (A) of this section or who, in the judgment of the council, is not
the real party in interest or beneficial owner of the business operated, or to
be operated, under the license.
   (D)   Residency Requirements; Renewal: A license will not be renewed if, in
the case of an individual, the licensee is not a resident of the state of
Minnesota at the time of the date for renewal; if, in the case of a
partnership, the managing partner is not a resident of the state at the time of
the renewal; or in the case of a corporation, if the operating officer is not a
resident of the state at the time of the date of renewal. The time for
establishing residency within the state may, for good cause, be extended by the
council.
   (E)   "Interest" Defined: The term "interest" as used in this section
includes any pecuniary interest in the ownership, operation, management or
profits of a retail liquor establishment, but does not include: bona fide
loans; bona fide fixed sum rental agreements; bona fide open accounts or other
obligations held with or without security arising out of the ordinary and
regular course of business of selling or leasing merchandise, fixtures or
supplies to such establishment; or an interest of five percent (5%) or less in
any corporation holding a city liquor license. A person who receives monies
from time to time directly or indirectly from a licensee, in the absence of a
bona fide consideration therefor and excluding bona fide gifts or donations,
shall be deemed to have a pecuniary interest in such retail license. In
determining "bona fide", the reasonable value of the goods or things received
as consideration for the payment by the licensee and all other facts reasonably
tending to prove or disprove the existence of any purposeful scheme or
arrangement to evade the prohibition of this section shall be considered.
   (F)   Financial Claims Due And Owing: No license shall be granted or renewed
for operation on any premises on which real estate taxes, assessments, or other
financial claims of the city or of the state are due, delinquent, or unpaid. If
an action has been commenced pursuant to the provisions of MSA chapter 278
questioning the amount or validity of taxes, the council may on application by
the licensee waive strict compliance with this provision; no waiver may be
granted, however, for taxes or any portion thereof, which remain unpaid for a
period exceeding one year after becoming due unless such one year period is
extended through no fault of the licensee. (Ord. 001-467, 11-5-2001)
3-12-12: RESTRICTIONS INVOLVING MINORS:
3-12-12-1: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   (A)   No Sale To Minors: No licensee, his agent or employee shall serve or
dispense upon the licensed premises any intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating
malt liquors to a person under the legal drinking age; nor shall such licensee,
or his agent or employee, permit any such person to be furnished or consume any
such liquors on the licensed premises; nor shall such licensee, his agent or
employee, permit any such person to be delivered to any such liquors.
   (B)   Delivery To Minors: No person under the legal drinking age shall
receive delivery of intoxicating liquor.
   (C)   Open Bottle Or Receptacle: No person shall consume intoxicating liquor
or have in his possession any bottle or receptacle containing intoxicating
liquor which is open while in the parking area of any shopping center or other
commercial establishment. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-12-2: MISREPRESENTING AGE:
No minor shall misrepresent his age for the purpose of obtaining intoxicating
liquor or nonintoxicating malt liquor, nor shall he enter any premises licensed
for the retail sale of intoxicating liquor or nonintoxicating malt liquor for
the purpose of purchasing or having served or delivered to him for consuming
any such intoxicating liquor or beer, nor shall any such person purchase,
attempt to purchase, consume or have another person purchase for him any
intoxicating liquor or beer. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-12-3: IDENTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Identification Required: Any person shall, upon demand of the
licensee, his employee or agent, produce and permit to be examined a current
driver's license or nonqualification certificate issued by the state department
of public safety. In the case of a foreign national, a valid passport may be
used as an alternative to the foregoing methods of identification.
   (B)   Prima Facie Evidence: In every prosecution for a violation of the
provisions of this section relating to the sale or furnishing of intoxicating
liquor or nonintoxicating malt beverages to minors, and in every proceeding
before the council with respect thereto, the fact that the minor involved has
obtained and presented to the licensee, his employee or agent, a driver's
license or passport, nonqualification certificate issued by the department of
public safety, from which it appears that said person was not a minor and was
regularly issued such identification card, shall be prima facie evidence that
the licensee, his agent or employee is not guilty of a violation of such a
provision and shall be conclusive evidence that a violation, if one has
occurred, was not wilful or intentional. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-
1984)
3-12-13: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
3-12-13-1: GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION:
The council may suspend or revoke any license for the sale of intoxicating
liquor for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   False or misleading statements made on a license application or
renewal, or failure to abide by the commitments, promises, or representations
made to the city council.
   (B)   Violation of any special conditions under which the license was
granted.
   (C)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   Creation of a nuisance on the premises or in the surrounding area.
   (E)   Violation of any state or federal law regulating the sale of
intoxicating liquor or controlled substances. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-
1-1984)
3-12-13-2: INACTIVE LICENSE:
The city council may revoke the liquor license of any establishment granted a
license that is not under construction and exhibiting satisfactory progress
toward completion within six (6) months from its issuance, or any establishment
that ceases operation for a period of six (6) months. A hearing shall be held
to determine what progress has been made toward opening or reopening the
establishment, and if satisfactory progress is not demonstrated, the council
may revoke the license. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-13-3: HEARING; NOTICE:
Revocation or suspension of a liquor license by the council shall be preceded
by a public hearing conducted in accordance with MSA 15.0418 to 15.0426. The
city council may appoint a hearing examiner or may conduct a hearing itself.
The hearing notice shall give at least ten (10) days' notice of the time and
place of the hearing and shall state the nature of the charges against the
licensee. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-14: BUILDING CHANGES; REPORT REQUIRED:
Proposed enlargement, substantial alteration which, in the city's opinion,
changes the character of the establishment or extension of premises previously
licensed shall be reported to the clerk at or before the time application is
made for a building permit for any such change. The enlargement, substantial
alteration or extension shall not be allowed unless the council approves an
amendment to the liquor license. (Ord. 083-156, 12-5-1983, eff. 1-1-1984)
3-12-15: PRESUMPTIVE CIVIL PENALTIES:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish a standard by
which the city council determines the amount of civil fines and length of
license suspensions and the propriety of revocations, and shall apply to all
premises licensed under this title or state law authorizing liquor licenses.
These penalties are presumed to be appropriate. The council may deviate from
the presumptive penalty where the council finds that there exist substantial
reasons making it appropriate to deviate, such as, but not limited to, a
licensee's efforts in combination with the state or city to prevent the sale of
alcohol to minors. When deviating from these standards, the council will
provide written findings that support the penalty selected. (Ord. 006-549, 2-6-
2006)
   (B)   Presumed Penalties For Violations: The presumed penalties for
violations are as follows (unless specified, numbers below indicate a
combination of civil fine and consecutive days' suspension):
Type Of Violation 1st Violation 2nd Violation  3rd Violation  4th Violation
                                Within 2 Years Within 3 Years Within 4 Years
Type Of Violation  1st Violation  2nd Violation  3rd Violation  4th Violation
                                  Within 2 Years Within 3 Years Within 4 Years
Commission of a
felony related to  Revocation     n/a            n/a            n/a
the licensed
activity
Sale of alcoholic
beverages while    Revocation     n/a            n/a            n/a
license is under
suspension
Sale of alcoholic
beverages to                                                  
underage person:
  On-sale                                        $1,000.00/21
 intoxicating     $250.00/3 days $500.00/7 days days           Revocation
  liquor
 On-sale beer and $250.00/3 days $500.00/7 days $1,000.00/21   Revocation
  wine                                           days
 Off-sale beer    $250.00/3 days $500.00/7 days $1,000.00/21   Revocation
  and wine                                       days
Sale of beverages                                $1,000.00/21
to obviously       $250.00/3 days $500.00/7 days days           Revocation
intoxicated person
After hours sale                                 $1,000.00/21
of alcoholic       $250.00/3 days $500.00/7 days days           Revocation
beverages
After hours
display or
consumption of     2 days         4 days         12 days        Revocation
alcoholic
beverages
Refusal to allow
government
inspectors or      5 days         15 days        Revocation     n/a
police admission
to inspect
premises
Illegal gambling   3 days         7 days         21 days        Revocation
on premises
Failure to take
reasonable steps
to stop person
from leaving       2 days         4 days         12 days        Revocation
premises with
alcoholic
beverages
Sale of
intoxicating
liquor where only  $500.00/5 days $1,000.00/21   Revocation      
licensed for 3.2                  days
percent malt
liquor
 
The penalty for violations without a presumptive penalty shall be determined by
the city council. (Ord. 015-688, 3-2-2015)
   (C)   Multiple Violations: At a licensee's first appearance before the
council, the council must act upon all of the violations that have been alleged
in the notice sent to the licensee. The council in that case must consider the
presumptive penalty for each violation under the first appearance column in
subsection (B) of this section. The occurrence of multiple violations is
grounds for deviation from the presumed penalties in the council's discretion.
   (D)   Subsequent Violations: Violations occurring after the notice of
hearing has been mailed, but prior to the hearing, must be treated as a
separate violation and dealt with as a second appearance before the council,
unless the city administrator and licensee agree in writing to add the
violation to the first appearance. The same procedure applies to the second,
third, or fourth appearance before the council.
   (E)   Subsequent Appearances: Upon a second, third, or fourth appearance
before the council by the same licensee, the council must impose the
presumptive penalty for the violation or violations giving rise to the
subsequent appearance without regard to the particular violation or violations
that were the subject of the first or prior appearance. However, the council
may consider the amount of time elapsed between appearances as a basis for
deviating from the presumptive penalty imposed by this section.
   (F)   Computation Of Violations: Multiple violations are computed by
checking the time period of the three (3) years immediately prior to the date
of the most current violation, and a licensee will be determined to be the same
as a previous licensee if any person involved with the license for a previous
violation continues to own any interest in the premises or business when the
subsequent violation occurs.
   (G)   Other Penalties: Nothing in this section shall restrict or limit the
authority of the council to suspend up to sixty (60) days, revoke the license,
impose a civil fee not to exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.00), to impose
conditions, or take any other action in accordance with law; provided, that the
license holder has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing in the manner
provided in this chapter. (Ord. 006-549, 2-6-2006)
fa192   3-13
CHAPTER 13
PROHIBITING NUDITY IN LIQUOR ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-13-1: Purpose
3-13-2: Definition
3-13-3: Prohibited Acts
3-13-4: Violation
3-13-1: PURPOSE:
   (A)   The City hereby ordains that it is in the best interest of the public
health, safety and general welfare of the people of the City that "nudity", as
defined in this Chapter, be prohibited upon the premises of licensed
intoxicating liquor, nonintoxicating malt liquor, and bottle club
establishments so as to best protect and assist the owners and operators and
employees of these premises, as well as patrons and the public in general.
   (B)   The City ordains that the standards herein are reflective of the
prevailing community standards of the City. This Chapter is intended to prevent
harm stemming from the physical immediacy and combination of alcohol, nudity
and sex. The City also desires to prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual
harassment and the City also finds that these activities may increase various
criminal conduct such as prostitution, sexual assault, and disorderly conduct.
(Ord. 095-349, 2-21-95)
3-13-2: DEFINITION:
For purposes of this Chapter, "nudity" means the showing of any human male or
female genitalia, pubic area, or buttocks with less than fully opaque covering,
or the showing of the human female breasts with less than fully opaque covering
of any portion thereof below the top of the areola, or the depiction of covered
male genitalia in a discernible turgid state. (Ord. 349, 2-21-95)
3-13-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
It shall be unlawful for the holder of any intoxicating liquor license,
nonintoxicating malt liquor license, or bottle club license or the operator of
any of such licensed establishments within the City to permit or to allow
nudity in the licensed premises. (Ord. 095-349, 2-21-95)
3-13-4: VIOLATION:
A violation of this Chapter is a misdemeanor, and is justification for
revocation or suspension of any intoxicating liquor license, nonintoxicating
malt liquor license, or bottle club license. (Ord. 095-349, 2-21-95)
FA192   3-14.TXT
CHAPTER 14
"ON-PREMISES" SALE OF INTOXICATING LIQUORS ON SUNDAY
SECTION:
3-14-1: Definition
3-14-2: Sales Permitted
3-14-3: Special License Required
3-14-4: License Fee
3-14-5: Application For License
3-14-6: Effective Date
3-14-7: Violation, Penalty
3-14-8: Enforcement
3-14-1: DEFINITION:
For the purpose of this ordinance and insofar as they apply the definitions
expressed in section
 3-12-1 of this title are the same. (Ord. 074-8, 11-11-1974)
3-14-2: SALES PERMITTED:
Those establishments which are hotels, restaurants or clubs as defined in MSA
340A.101 and which have facilities for serving not less than thirty (30) guests
at one time and to which on- sale licenses have been issued or hereby may be
issued for the sale of intoxicating liquors, may serve intoxicating liquors
between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to twelve o'clock (12:00)
midnight. No sale or service of intoxicating liquors shall be allowed between
twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on Mondays except
that sales and service of intoxicating liquors may be allowed between twelve
o'clock (12:00) midnight and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. on Monday, January 1,
2001. (Ord. 000-454, 9-18-2000)
3-14-3: SPECIAL LICENSE REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any such establishment, directly or indirectly, to
sell or serve such intoxicating liquors as provided in section
 3-14-2 of this chapter, without first having obtained a special license from
the city of Farmington. (Ord. 074-8, 11-11-1974)
3-14-4: LICENSE FEE:
The license fee for the issuance of such special license shall be established
by resolution by the city council as amended from time to time. (Ord. 074-8,
11-11-1974; amd. Ord. 082-128, 3-15-1982)
3-14-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Application for the special license shall be made to the city of Farmington in
the same manner as application for other licenses to sell intoxicating liquor
are made. The provisions of MSA 340.112 shall apply to such license. (Ord. 074-
8, 11-11-1974)
3-14-6: EFFECTIVE DATE:
The effective dates of the special license shall be from January 1 to December
31 of any given year. Except as is provided in section
3-14-4 of this chapter, there shall be no prorated discount of the annual fee
to accommodate the issuance of a special license between the normal effective
dates. (Ord. 074-8, 11-11-1974)
3-14-7: VIOLATION, PENALTY:
The special license may be revoked by the city of Farmington for cause. Any
person violating any of the provisions of this ordinance shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 074-8, 11-11-1974)
3-14-8: ENFORCEMENT:
Responsibility for the enforcement of this ordinance shall be the particular
responsibility of the Farmington police department. (Ord. 074-8, 11-11-1974)
FA192   3-15.txt
CHAPTER 15
SAUNAS AND MASSAGE SERVICES
SECTION:
3-15-1: Purpose
3-15-2: Definitions
3-15-3: License Required
3-15-4: Application
3-15-5: Execution Of Application
3-15-6: Fees
3-15-7: Persons Ineligible For A License
3-15-8: Grant Of Licenses
3-15-9: License Not Transferable
3-15-10: Conditions Of License
3-15-11: Suspension
3-15-12: Revocation
3-15-13: Appeal
3-15-14: Duration Of License
3-15-15: Regulations
3-15-16: Therapeutic Massage Distinguished
3-15-17: Health And Disease Control
3-15-18: Construction And Maintenance Requirements
3-15-19: Restrictions Involving Minors
3-15-20: Inspection
3-15-21: Identification Of Employees
3-15-22: Violations
3-15-23: Hours
3-15-24: Enforcement
3-15-1: PURPOSE:
This chapter regulating, protecting and promoting the public health, safety and
general welfare of the people of the city of Farmington by regulating the
operation and licensing of saunas and therapeutic massage in the city. (Ord.
090-229, 2-5-1990)
3-15-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the terms defined in this section shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them:
MASSAGE SERVICE: A business offering or providing massages to others where a
fee is charged and whether or not the massage services are rendered at the
licensed location.
MASSAGE THERAPIST: A person who practices therapeutic massage.
OPERATE: To own, manage or conduct.
SANITARY: Free from the vegetative cells of pathogenic micro- organisms.
SAUNA: Means and includes a steam bath or heating bathroom used for the purpose
of bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning,
relaxing or reducing agent.
THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE: The method of treating the superficial parts of the human
body by rubbing, pressing, stroking, kneading, tapping, pounding, vibrating or
stimulating with the hands or any instrument for the exclusive purposes of
relaxing, physical fitness or beautification and for no other purposes.
THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE BUSINESS: Any establishment or place providing to the
public at large therapeutic massage services, other than a hospital,
sanatorium, rest home, nursing home, boarding home or other institution for the
hospitalization and care of human beings duly licensed under the provisions of
Minnesota statutes 144.50 through 144.69.
WITHIN THE CITY: Includes physical presence as well as telephone referral
situations, such as a "phone a message" type operation, in which the business
premises, although not actually located within the city, serves as a point of
assignment of employees who respond to requests for services from within the
city. (Ord. 090-229, 2-5-1990)
3-15-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Except as authorized by state law, no person in the city of Farmington shall
engage in the business of operating an enterprise defined in section
3-15-2 of this chapter, either exclusively or in connection with any other
business enterprise, without first obtaining a license issued by the city. A
person engaged in the business of operating a massage enterprise on the date
this chapter becomes effective shall apply for a license within sixty (60) days
of the effective date hereof. (Ord. 015-701, 9-8-2015)
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person operates an enterprise
described in section
3-15-2 of this chapter without a valid license issued by the city.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
city clerk. The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with accurate
dimensions of the interior of the premises.
   (C)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter and the premises may be inspected to assure compliance with the law by
the appropriate city personnel or its authorized representatives and agents.
   (D)   If a person who wishes to operate an enterprise as described in
section
3-15-2 of this chapter is an individual, the individual must sign the
application for a license as applicant. If an applicant is other than an
individual, each individual who has a ten percent (10%) or greater interest in
the business must sign the application for a license as applicant. Each
applicant must be qualified under section
3-15-4 of this chapter and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a
license is granted.
   (E)   Any falsification of the application shall result in denial of a
license. (Ord. 090-229, 2-5-1990)
3-15-4: APPLICATION:
Every application for a license under this chapter shall be filed with the city
clerk. Each application shall be made on a form supplied by the city. (Ord.
090-229, 2-5-1990)
3-15-5: EXECUTION OF APPLICATION:
All applications for license shall be signed and sworn to. If the application
is that of a natural person, it shall be signed and sworn to by such person; if
by a corporation, by an officer thereof; if by a partnership, by all of the
partners; and if by an unincorporated association, by the manager or managing
officer thereof. (Ord. 090-229, 2-5-1990)
3-15-6: FEES:
   (A)   License Fees: Each application shall be accompanied by payment in full
of the required license fee. The city council shall, by resolution, establish
the amount of the business license fee. Upon rejection of any application for a
license, the city shall refund the amount paid. No other refunds shall be made.
   (B)   Investigation Fees: At the time of each original application for a
business license, there shall be paid in full an investigation fee. At the time
of each renewal application for a business license there shall be paid in full
an investigation fee. The city council shall, by resolution, establish the
amount of the original investigation fee and the renewal investigation fee. No
investigation fee shall be refunded. (Ord. 090-229, 2-5-1990)
   (C)   License; Duration: All licenses shall be in effect from January 1
through December 31, except those fees for licenses issued during a calendar
year shall be prorated from the date of issuance until December 31. (Ord. 090-
238, 10-1-1990)
3-15-7: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR A LICENSE:
The city council shall deny issuance of a license if one or more of the
following be true:
   (A)   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
   (B)   An applicant is overdue in his payment to the city of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed him or imposed upon him in relation to a
therapeutic massage business.
   (C)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
   (D)   An applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of this
chapter, other than the offense of operating an enterprise described in section
3-15-2 of this chapter without a license, or a related state law, within two
(2) years immediately preceding the application.
   (E)   The premises to be used for the enterprise has not been approved by
the appropriate city personnel as being in compliance with applicable laws and
ordinances.
   (F)   The license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
   (G)   An applicant has been employed in an enterprise described in section
3-15-2 of this chapter in a managerial capacity within the preceding twelve
(12) months and has demonstrated that he is unable to operate or manage the
premises in a peaceful and law abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
   (H)   An applicant has been convicted of a sexually oriented crime within
five (5) years of the date an application for a license is filed with the city.
   (I)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant.
   (J)   An applicant is not a member in good standing of a national or state
recognized professional therapeutic massage organization.
   (K)   An applicant and all employees cannot document at least one hundred
(100) hours of certified therapeutic massage training from an approved school
recognized by a national or state professional therapeutic massage
organization.
   (L)   The applicant or persons in his employ are not complying with or have
a history of violations of the laws and ordinances that apply to health, safety
or moral turpitude. (Ord. 090-229, 2-5-1990)
3-15-8: GRANT OF LICENSES:
   (A)   Investigation: All applications shall be referred to the city clerk
for verification and investigation of the facts set forth in the application.
The chief of police and other consultants shall make a written recommendation
to the city council as to issuance or nonissuance of the license. The city
council may order and conduct such additional investigation as it deems
necessary.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the written report and recommendation by the Chief of
Police, the City Clerk shall publish in the official newspaper notice of a
hearing to be held by the City Council. The notice shall be published at least
ten (10) days in advance of the hearing; and it shall set forth the day, time
and place when the hearing will be held; the name of the applicant, the
premises where the business is to be conducted; the nature of the business; and
such information as the Council may direct. A license, other than a renewal,
shall not be approved by the City Council prior to such hearing.
   (C)   Renewal Applications. No less than ten (10) days nor more than fifteen
(15) days after the date for submitting renewal applications, the City Council
shall hold a public hearing. Notice of the time and place of such hearing and
the fact that a renewal application shall be considered shall be published in
the official newspaper ten (10) days in advance of the hearing. Opportunity
shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the granting of a
renewal license by the City Council. (Ord. 090-229, 2-5-90)
   (D)   Change of Location: A license shall not change location without first
submitting a new application pursuant to this Chapter and obtaining approval by
the City Council. If the proposed location meets zoning requirements, the
Council may approve the application. If the proposed location does not meet
zoning requirements, the applicant shall first obtain zoning approval before
being considered by the Council. A public hearing is not required for approval
of a change of location pursuant to this Chapter. (Ord. 091-243, 2-19-91)
3-15-9: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and shall not be
transferable to another holder. No licensee shall loan, sell, give or assign a
license to another person.
3-15-10: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
No business licensee shall solicit business or offer or agree to perform
massage services, nor shall his/her employee(s) solicit business or offer or
agree to perform massage services within the City while under suspension or
revocation by the City Council.
3-15-11: SUSPENSION:
The City Administrator shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed
thirty (30) days if the City Administrator determines that a licensee or an
employee of a licensee has:
   (A)   Violated any provisions of this Chapter.
   (B)   Engaged in excessive use of alcoholic beverages or use of illegal
drugs while on the licensed premises, or while performing therapeutic massage
services.
   (C)   Refused to allow an inspection of the licensed premises as authorized
by this Chapter.
   (D)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage the enterprise in a
peaceful and law abiding manner thus necessitating action by law enforcement
officers.
3-15-12: REVOCATION:
   (A)   The City Council shall revoke a license if a cause of suspension in
Section
3-15-8 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding twelve
(12) months.
   (B)   The City Council shall revoke a license if it is determined that:
      1.   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process.
      2.   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of controlled substances on the premises.
      3.   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the enterprise during a
period of time when the licensee's license was suspended.
      4.   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in Section
3-15-4.
      5.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the City for ad valorem
taxes, local lodging tax, or other taxes or fees related to the enterprise.
   (C)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
3-15-13: APPEAL:
   (A)   If the City Council or designee denies the issuance of a license, or
suspends or revokes a license, the City Administrator shall send to the
applicant or licensee, by certified mail, return receipt requested, written
notice of the action and the right to an appeal. The aggrieved party may appeal
the decision of the City Council or designee in writing within ten (10) days of
receiving notice of the City's action. The filing of an appeal does not stay
the action of the City Council or designee in suspending or revoking a license.
   (B)   Procedure: Upon receipt of a written appeal, the City Council may
appoint a committee of the Council or an independent hearing officer to hear
the matter, report findings of fact and a recommendation for disposition to the
Council. Upon receipt of recommendation for disposition, the Council shall
conduct a public hearing which shall be preceded by ten (10) day written notice
to the licensee stating the time and place of the hearing and the nature of the
hearing. Hearings on the appeal shall be open to the public and the licensee or
applicant shall have the right to appear and be represented by legal counsel
and to offer evidence in its behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City
Council shall make a final decision.
   (C)   Additional Requirements: The City Council may base denial, suspension,
revocation or non-renewal of a license upon any additional grounds which they
may, in their sole discretion, impose.
3-15-14: DURATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   All licenses issued pursuant to this Ordinance shall be effective for
a period not to exceed one year. All licenses shall expire on December 31 of
each year.
   (B)   Application for renewal shall be made at least sixty (60) days prior
to the expiration date.
3-15-15: REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Such establishments shall provide adequate refuse receptacles which
shall be emptied as required.
   (B)   Possession of any alcoholic beverage or narcotic drugs or controlled
substances on the premises by licensee or employee shall be prohibited.
   (C)   The licensed premises shall not perform massages nor shall any patrons
be permitted on the premises between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   (D)   No persons under eighteen (18) years of age may be employed in an
establishment requiring a license under the provisions of this Chapter.
   (E)   The applicant shall furnish the City with a list of current employees,
indicating their names and addresses and designating the duties of the
employees within the licensed premises. The licensee shall promptly notify the
City of any additions to or deletions from the list of employees or changes in
their job descriptions or duties.
   (F)   The licensed premises and its contents must be kept and maintained in
a sanitary condition.
   (G)   At all times during the operation of the enterprise, massage
therapists and all employees must be and remain fully clothed in nontransparent
clothing and customers must remain reasonably covered in nontransparent
material.
   (H)   Premises shall comply with all health, safety, and building
regulations of the City of Farmington.
   (I)   Therapeutic massage businesses shall not be detrimental to the health,
welfare or safety of the citizens of the City of Farmington.
   (J)   No person shall solicit business in any public place or in any liquor
establishment in the City.
3-15-16: THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE DISTINGUISHED:
The practice of therapeutic massage is hereby declared to be distinct from the
practice of medicine, surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy, or
podiatry, and persons duly licensed in this State to practice medicine,
surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy or podiatry, nurses who
work solely under the direction of any such persons and athletic directors or
trainers under contract to a school district, private college, or public
university, are hereby expressly excluded from the provisions of this Section.
Beauty culturists and barbers who do not give, or hold themselves out to give,
massage services other than are customarily given in such shops or places of
business for the purpose of beautification only, shall be exempt from the
provisions of this Section.
3-15-17: HEALTH AND DISEASE CONTROL:
No person while afflicted with any disease in a communicable form or while a
carrier of such disease, or while afflicted with boils, infected wounds, sores
or any acute respiratory infection may work in or use the services of any
licensed premises. No persons known or suspected of being afflicted with any
such disease or condition shall be employed or permitted in such area or
capacity.
3-15-18: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   All sauna rooms and restrooms and bathrooms used in connection
therewith shall be constructed of materials which are impervious to moisture,
bacteria, mold and fungus growth. The floor to wall and wall to wall joints
shall be constructed to provide a sanitary cove with a minimum radius of one
inch (1").
   (B)   All restrooms used in connection with saunas shall be provided with
mechanical ventilation with two (2) cubic feet per minute per square foot of
floor area, a minimum of thirty (30) foot candles of illumination, a hand
washing sink equipped with hot and cold running water under pressure, sanitary
towels and a soap dispenser.
   (C)   Each sauna shall have a janitor's closet which shall be provided for
the storage of cleaning supplies. Such closet shall have mechanical ventilation
with two (2) cubic feet per minute per square foot of floor area and a minimum
of thirty (30) foot candles of illumination. Such closet shall include a mop
sink.
   (D)   Floors, walls and equipment in sauna rooms, in restrooms and in
bathrooms used in connection therewith must be kept in a state of good repair
and sanitary at all times. Linens and other materials shall be stored at least
twelve inches (12") off the floor. Sanitary towels, wash cloths, cleansing
agents and toilet tissue must be made available to each customer.
   (E)   Individual lockers shall be made available for use by patrons. Such
lockers shall have separate keys for locking.
   (F)   Doors on massage rooms shall not be locked or capable of being locked.
Locks, latches or other devices intended to secure a door so as to prevent its
being opened by any person from either side of the door with or without a key
cannot be present on any doors on massage rooms. All massage rooms shall be
clearly identified by signs.
3-15-19: RESTRICTIONS INVOLVING MINORS:
No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be permitted at any time
on the licensed premises as a customer, guest or employee unless accompanied by
his or her parent or guardian. (Ord. 090-229, 2-5-1990)
3-15-20: INSPECTION:
Each operation required to be licensed hereunder shall at all times be held
open for inspection by any duly authorized law enforcement officer, health
officer or building inspector to insure compliance with all provisions of this
ordinance. (Ord. 090-229, 2-5-1990)
3-15-21: IDENTIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES:
Upon demand by any police officer, any person engaged in providing services in
any licensed premises shall identify himself, giving his true legal name and
his correct address. (Ord. 090-229, 2-5-1990)
3-15-22: VIOLATIONS:
Every person who commits or attempts to commit, conspires to commit or aids or
abets in the commission of any act constituting a violation of this ordinance,
whether individually or in connection with one or more other persons or as a
principal agent or accessory, shall be guilty of such offense, and every person
who falsely, fraudulently, forcibly or willfully induces, causes, coerces,
requires, permits, or directs another to violate any of the provisions of this
ordinance is likewise guilty of such offense. (Ord. 090-229, 2-5-1990)
3-15-23: HOURS:
No customers or patrons shall be allowed to enter the licensed premises after
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. daily. No
customers or patrons shall be allowed to remain upon the licensed premises
after eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and before six o'clock (6:00) A.M. daily.
(Ord. 090-229, 2-5-1990)
3-15-24: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Violation: Any person violating a provision of this chapter, upon
conviction, is punishable by a fine not to exceed seven hundred dollars
($700.00) and/or ninety (90) days in jail.
   (B)   Injunction: A person who operates or causes to be operated a
therapeutic massage business without a valid license or otherwise in violation
of this chapter is subject to a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for
criminal violations. (Ord. 090-229, 2-5-1990)
FA192   3-16.txt
CHAPTER 16
GAMING DEVICES
(Rep. by Ord. 017-729, 8-21-2017)
FA192   3-17.txt
CHAPTER 17
TEMPORARY OUTDOOR EXHIBITING
SECTION:
3-17-1: Scope
3-17-2: Examples
3-17-3: Permit
3-17-4: Application
3-17-5: Approval Criteria
3-17-6: Investigation
3-17-7: Revocation Of Permit
3-17-8: Enforcement
3-17-1: SCOPE:
This chapter is intended to regulate activities conducted on private or public
property which are of temporary duration and are held entirely or partially
out-of-doors. (Ord. 078-65, 6-5-1978)
3-17-2: EXAMPLES:
This chapter is intended to regulate the following types of activities but not
limited to: exhibitions, carnivals, amusements, rides, circuses, tent shows,
street dances, parades and outdoor sales. (Ord. 017-733, 10-16-2017)
3-17-3: PERMIT:
It shall be unlawful for any person or organization to conduct any activity of
the nature described above before a permit is obtained from the Office of City
Clerk and a fee paid, the amount of which is to be set by the City Council.
(Ord. 078-65, 6-5-1978)
3-17-4: APPLICATION:
Application for permit must be made on forms provided by the City Clerk and
shall call for whatever information he deems necessary in determining whether
an application shall be granted. (Ord. 078-65, 6-5-1978)
3-17-5: APPROVAL CRITERIA:
Information provided shall include, but not be limited to, the following: name
and address of applicant, responsible organization, exact location of activity,
dates and hours of duration, temporary structures or equipment, sanitary
facilities, parking areas, crowd control provisions, food and drink available
and any other information needed to determine whether the proposed activity
does not jeopardize the health, welfare and safety of the public. (Ord. 078-65,
6-5-1978)
3-17-6: INVESTIGATION:
Upon receipt of application for permit the Clerk shall cause to have made any
investigation or examination by the Building Inspector, Fire Chief, Police
Chief, Health Officer or others he feels is necessary to determine the validity
of the facts stated and their effects. (Ord. 078-65, 6-5-1978)
3-17-7: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
If, during the term of the permit it is determined by the enforcing authority
that the activity has not been conducted in a manner which is consistent with
the terms of the permit, is detrimental to the health, welfare or safety of the
public or constitutes a nuisance in fact, the permit will be immediately
revoked and the activity stopped, in accordance with title 6, chapter 6 of the
City Code. (Ord. 078-65, 6-5-1978)
3-17-8: ENFORCEMENT:
The Farmington Community Development Department is the designated enforcement
authority under this chapter. (Ord. 017-733, 10-16-2017)
FA192   3-18.txt
CHAPTER 18
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-18-1: Definitions
3-18-2: Exception
3-18-3: Licensing
3-18-4: License Denial, Suspension Or Revocation
3-18-5: Prohibited Activities
3-18-6: License Transferability
3-18-7: Exclusion By Placard
3-18-8: Penalty
3-18-9: Severability
3-18-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purposes of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
CANVASSER: See definition for solicitor.
NON-COMMERCIAL DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCATE: A person who goes door-to-door for the
primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social, or other
ideological beliefs. For purpose of this article, the term door-to-door
advocate shall fall under the term solicitor and include door-to-door
canvassing and pamphleteering intended for non-commercial purposes.
PEDDLER: A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying, or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise, or other personal property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. For purpose of this article, the term peddler shall
have the same common meaning as the term hawker.
PERSON: Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation, partnership,
or similar association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships, and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent, or employee.
REGULAR BUSINESS DAY: Any day during which the city hall is normally open for
the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law shall
not be counted as regular business days.
SOLICITOR: A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property, or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. For purposes of this
article, the definition for solicitor shall also be the definition for
canvasser.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: A person who temporarily sets up business out of a vehicle,
trailer, boxcar, tent, or other portable shelter, or empty store front for the
purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling, or attempting to sell, and
delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property and
who does not remain in any one location for more than fourteen (14) consecutive
days. The term transient merchant shall mean the same as temporary merchant or
temporary vendor and shall exclude food trucks and mobile food units. (Ord.
023-778, 11-20-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
3-18-2: EXCEPTION:
For the purpose of this chapter, the terms peddler, solicitor, and transient
merchant shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any person engaging in non-commercial door-to-door advocacy.
   (B)   Any person going from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement for
the primary purpose of exercising that person's state or federal constitutional
rights (i.e., freedom of speech, freedom of the press, freedom of religion).
This exemption will not apply if the person's exercise of constitutional rights
is merely incidental to what would properly be considered a commercial
activity.
   (C)   Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods,
wares, products, merchandise, or other personal property to a retail seller of
the items being sold by the wholesaler.
   (D)   Any person who makes initial contacts with other people for the
purpose of establishing or trying to establish a regular customer delivery
route for the delivery of perishable food and dairy products, such as baked
goods or milk.
   (E)   Any person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to
the customers on his or her established delivery route.
   (F)   Any person making deliveries of newspapers, newsletters, or other
similar publications on an established customer delivery route, when attempting
to establish a regular delivery route, or when publications are delivered to
the community at large.
   (G)   Any person conducting the type of sale commonly known as garage sales,
rummage sales, or estate sales.
   (H)   Any person participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea
market.
   (I)   Any person selling or attempting to sell, or to take or attempt to
take orders for, any product grown, produced, cultivated, or raised on any
farm.
   (J)   Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer.
   (K)   Any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale.
Exemption from these definitions shall not, for the scope of this chapter,
excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory provision
or requirement provided by another city ordinance. (Ord. 023-778, 11-20-2023,
eff. 1-1-2024)
3-18-3: LICENSING:
   (A)   County License Required: No person shall conduct business as a
transient merchant within the city without first having obtained the
appropriate license from the county and the city as required by Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county
issues a license for the activity.
   (B)   City License Or Registration Required: Except as otherwise provided
for by this chapter, no person shall conduct business as a peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant without first having obtained a license from the city.
   (C)   Application: An application for a city license to conduct business as
a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall be made at least ten (10)
regular business days before the applicant desires to begin conducting a
business operation within the city. Application for a license shall be made on
a form that is available on the City of Farmington website.
   All applications shall include the following information:
      1.   The applicant's full legal name.
      2.   Any and all other names under which the applicant conducts business
or to which the applicant officially answers to.
      3.   Complete and current personal contact information for the applicant.
      4.   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed,
or operated by the applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or an
agent.
      5.   Complete and current business contact information for the applicant
(if any).
      6.   The type of business or activity for which the applicant is applying
for a license.
      7.   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business.
      8.   The location(s) where an applicant intends to set up or otherwise
conduct business.
      9.   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any location to be used by a transient merchant.
      10.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five (5) years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor
for violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other
than minor traffic offenses.
      11.   A list of the three (3) most recent locations where the applicant
has conducted business as a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant.
      12.   Proof of any required county license.
      13.   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, any distinguishing marks or features, and the like).
      14.   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      15.   A color copy of the applicant's driver's license or other
acceptable form of photo identification (copy must be of both sides of the
driver's license or identification).
      16.   The license plate number, registration information, description,
and vehicle identification number (VIN) for any vehicle(s) to be used in
conjunction with the licensed business operation.
      17.   Any and all additional information as may be deemed necessary by
the City Clerk.
      18.   Applications must be signed by and submitted in person by the
applicant. A valid photo ID is required.
      19.   Large groups (four (4) or more applicants) require an appointment
with the City Clerk.
   (D)   Fee: All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fees established in Chapter 12;
8-12-4 : Fees and Charges Schedule. Fees must be paid at time of application
and cannot be prorated.
   (E)   Investigation: A background investigation is required for peddlers,
solicitors, and transient merchants.
   (F)   Procedur: Licenses will be approved pursuant to city code. The city
may approve a license with reasonable conditions, as deemed necessary.
   Upon receipt of the application and payment of the license fee, the City
Clerk will, within two (2) regular business days, determine if the application
is complete.
      1.   An application will be considered complete if all required
information is provided. If the City Clerk determines that the application is
incomplete, the City Clerk must inform the applicant of the required, necessary
information that is missing.
      2.   If the application is complete, the City Clerk must order any
investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the information
provided with the application.
      3.   Within ten (10) regular business days of receiving a complete
application, the City Clerk must issue the license unless grounds exist for
denying the license application under section
3-18-4 , in which case the City Clerk must deny the request for a peddler,
solicitor, or transient merchant license.
      4.   If the City Clerk denies the license application, the applicant must
be notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial, and the
applicant's right to appeal the denial by requesting, within twenty (20) days
of receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City Council. The
City Council shall hear the appeal within twenty (20) days of the date of the
request for a hearing. The decision of the City Council following the public
hearing can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals for a
writ of certiorari.
   (G)   Term: Licenses shall be valid for one (1) calendar year.
      1.   Unless otherwise stated in the license, the effective date of the
license is the date of issuance.
      2.   Unless otherwise stated on the license, a license granted under this
article shall be valid only through December 31 of the current year in which it
was granted.
   (H)   Special Event: Activities such as, but not limited to, exhibitions,
carnivals, amusements, rides, circuses, tent shows, street dances, parades, and
outdoor sales require a Temporary Outdoor Exhibition Permit, per city code
Title 3, Chapter 17. (Ord. 023-778, 11-20-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
3-18-4: LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
   (A)   The following shall be grounds for denying, suspending, or revoking a
peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant license:
      1.   The failure of an applicant to obtain and demonstrate proof of
having obtained any required county license.
      2.   The failure of an applicant to truthfully provide any information
requested by the city as part of the application process.
      3.   The failure of an applicant to sign the license application.
      4.   The failure of an applicant to pay the required fee at time of
application.
      5.   A conviction within the past five (5) years of the date of
application for any violation of any federal or state statute or regulation, or
of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects upon the person's ability to
conduct the business for which the license is being sought in a professional,
honest and legal manner. Such violations shall include, but are not limited to,
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
      6.   The revocation within the past five (5) years of any license issued
to an applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant.
      7.   Any violations of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple Persons Under One License: The suspension or revocation of
any license that authorized multiple persons to conduct business as peddlers,
solicitors, or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall serve as a
suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to conduct
business as a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant on behalf of the
licensee whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice:
      1.   Prior to denying, revoking, or suspending any license issued under
this chapter, the city shall provide a license holder with written notice of
the alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing
on the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application or, if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
      2.   Hearing: Upon receiving the notice provided in part (C)1 of this
section, the licensee shall have the right to request a hearing before a
hearing officer. If no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk
within ten (10) days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed
with the denial, suspension, or revocation. For the purpose of a mailed notice,
service shall be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the
mail. If a public hearing is requested within the stated timeframe, a hearing
shall be scheduled within twenty (20) days from the date of the request for the
public hearing. Within three (3) regular business days of the hearing, the
hearing officer shall notify the licensee and the city of its decision.
      3.   Emergency: If, in the discretion of the city, imminent harm to the
health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a peddler,
solicitor, or transient merchant licensed under this ordinance, the city may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in subsection (C)2 of this
section.
      4.   Appeal: Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section, and has exhausted the appeal procedure in this section, shall have the
right to appeal that decision in court so long as it is appealed within twenty
(20) days of the hearing officer's decision. (Ord. 023-778, 11-20-2023, eff. 1-
1-2024)
3-18-5: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
No peddler, solicitor, non-commercial door-to-door advocate, or other person
engaged in similar activities shall conduct business in any of the following
manner:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or the items to be sold by
means of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any
other noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of traffic, either vehicular or pedestrian,
on any street, sidewalk, alleyway, or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conducting business in a way so as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any specific individual or the general public.
   (D)   Conducting business outside of the following hours:
      1.   Nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M., Monday
through Friday.
      2.   Ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. to five o'clock (5:00) P.M., Saturday and
Sunday.
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license, registration, or identification
when requested.
   (F)   Using the license or registration of another person.
   (G)   Alleging false or misleading statements about the products or services
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
   (H)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave by the
property owner, their designee, or tenant.
   (I)   Otherwise operating their business in any manner that a reasonable
person would find obscene, threatening, intimidating, or abusive. (Ord. 023-
778, 11-20-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
3-18-6: LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY:
No license under this chapter shall be transferred to any person other than the
person to whom the license was issued. (Ord. 023-778, 11-20-2023, eff. 1-1-
2024)
3-18-7: EXCLUSION BY PLACARD:
Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no peddler,
solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate, or other
person engaged in other similar activities shall enter onto the property of
another for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor,
transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate, or similar activity
when the property is visibly marked with a sign or placard stating: "No
peddlers, solicitors or transient merchants," "peddlers, solicitors, and
transient merchants prohibited," or other comparable statement. No person other
than the property owner, their designee, or tenant shall remove, deface, or
otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section. (Ord. 023-778,
11-20-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
3-18-8: PENALTY:
Any individual found in violation of any provision of this article shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and/or subject to an administrative citation, pursuant
to city code Title 1, Chapter 4, Penalty. (Ord. 023-778, 11-20-2023, eff. 1-1-
2024)
3-18-9: SEVERABILITY:
If any provision of this chapter is found to be invalid for any reason by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining provisions shall
not be affected. (Ord. 023-778, 11-20-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
CHAPTER 19
GAMBLING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
3-19-1: Purpose
3-19-2: Provisions Of State Law Adopted
3-19-3: Lawful Gambling
3-19-4: Profits
3-19-5: Investigation Fee
3-19-6: City Permits
3-19-7: Conduct Of Gambling
3-19-8: Compensation
3-19-9: Records And Reporting Requirements
3-19-10: Eligible Premises
3-19-11: Distribution Of Proceeds
3-19-12: Penalties
3-19-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the conduct of gambling,
to prevent its commercialization, to ensure integrity of operations, and to
provide for the use of net profits only for lawful purposes. (Ord. 098-417, 10-
5-1998)
3-19-2: PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW ADOPTED:
The provisions of Minnesota Statutes Annotated chapter 349 and laws of
Minnesota, 1998, chapter 322, relating to the definition of terms, licensing
and restrictions of gambling are adopted and made a part of this chapter as if
set out in full. (Ord. 098-417, 10-5-1998)
3-19-3: LAWFUL GAMBLING:
There shall be no gambling in the city except as authorized pursuant to the
provisions of Minnesota Statutes Annotated sections 349.11 through 349.22, and
in the rules adopted pursuant to the authority contained in the statutes. (Ord.
098-417, 10-5-1998)
3-19-4: PROFITS:
Gross profits from lawful gambling may be expended only for lawful purposes or
allowable expenses as provided under Minnesota Statutes Annotated section
349.15, and the definition of "lawful purposes" as defined under Minnesota
Statutes Annotated section 349.12. (Ord. 098-417, 10-5-1998)
3-19-5: INVESTIGATION FEE:
Upon being notified by the board that an organization has applied for issuance
or renewal of a license, the organization shall pay to the city an
investigation fee in the amount of fifty dollars ($50.00). Failure to promptly
pay the required investigation fee shall be grounds for disapproval of a
license. (Ord. 098-417, 10-5-1998)
3-19-6: CITY PERMITS:
   (A)   No organization may conduct a gambling event which would otherwise be
allowed pursuant to the exemptions set forth in Minnesota Statutes Annotated
section 349.166, without first securing a permit from the city and paying a
permit fee in an amount set from time to time by council resolution.
   (B)   Lawful gambling may not be conducted at any premises without the owner
of the premises first obtaining a permit from the city and paying a permit fee
in an amount set from time to time by council resolution. The owner of the
premises must comply with the requirements of Minnesota Statutes Annotated
section 349.18, in renting or using the premises for lawful gambling. (Ord.
098-417, 10-5-1998)
3-19-7: CONDUCT OF GAMBLING:
   (A)   Gambling Manager: All lawful gambling conducted by a licensed
organization must be under the supervision of a gambling manager. The gambling
manager designated by an organization shall be responsible for gross receipts
and profits and for its conduct in compliance with all laws and rules. The
gambling manager shall be responsible for using profits for a lawful purpose.
   (B)   Bond: The licensed organization or gambling manager shall maintain a
fidelity bond in favor of the organization and the state in an amount and form
as required by state law, and a copy of said bond must be filed with the city
clerk.
   (C)   Qualifications Of Gambling Manager: The gambling manager must possess
a valid license by the Minnesota Gambling Board and must qualify as a gambling
manager under MSA section 349.167. (Ord. 098-417, 10-5-1998)
3-19-8: COMPENSATION:
Compensation may be paid to persons in connection with the conduct of lawful
gambling only as provided under MSA section 349.168. (Ord. 098-417, 10-5-1998)
3-19-9: RECORDS AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS:
Each organization licensed to operate lawful gambling shall keep records and
shall report as required by MSA section 349.18. In addition, each organization
shall annually report to the City Clerk its lawful purpose expenditures in a
manner and form acceptable to the City Clerk. (Ord. 098-417, 10-5-1998)
3-19-10: ELIGIBLE PREMISES:
An organization may conduct lawful gambling only on premises it owns or leases,
except as authorized by MSA section 349.18. (Ord. 098-417, 10-5-1998)
3-19-11: DISTRIBUTION OF PROCEEDS:
Each organization conducting lawful gambling within the City must expend at
least fifty percent (50%) of its net profits derived from lawful gambling on
lawful purposes conducted or located within the trade area of the City, which
shall include the corporate limits of the City or any municipality contiguous
to the City. (Ord. 098-417, 10-5-1998)
3-19-12: PENALTIES:
   (A)   Criminal Penalty: Violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be
a misdemeanor. A person convicted of violating any provision of this Chapter
shall be subject to a fine of not more than seven hundred dollars ($700.00) or
imprisonment for a term not to exceed ninety (90) days, or both, plus, in
either case, the costs of prosecution. Additionally, a violation of this
Chapter shall be reported to the Minnesota Charitable Gambling Board and a
recommendation shall be made for suspension, revocation or cancellation of an
organization's license.
   (B)   Suspension And Revocation: Any permit may be suspended or revoked for
any violation of this Chapter. A permit shall not be suspended or revoked until
the procedural requirements of subsection (C) of this Section have been
complied with, provided, that, in cases where probable cause exists as to an
ordinance violation, the City may temporarily suspend upon service of notice of
the hearing provided for in subsection (C) of this Section. Such temporary
suspension shall not extend for more than two (2) weeks.
   (C)   Procedure: A permit shall not be revoked under subsection (B) of this
Section until notice and an opportunity for a hearing have first been given to
the permittee. The notice shall be personally served and shall state the
ordinance provision reasonably believed to be violated. The notice shall also
state that the permittee may demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the
permit will not be suspended until after the hearing is held. If the permittee
requests a hearing, one shall be held on the matter by the Council at least one
week after the date on which the request is made. If, as a result of the
hearing, the Council finds that an ordinance violation exists, then the Council
may suspend or terminate the permit. (Ord. 098-417, 10-5-1998)
fa192   3-20
CHAPTER 20
DRUG-RELATED DEVICES
(Rep. by Ord. 2025-004, 7-21-2025)
CHAPTER 21
BINGO
SECTION:
3-21-1: Purpose
3-21-2: Definitions
3-21-3: Exempt Activity
3-21-4: Exempt Requirements
3-21-5: License Required
3-21-6: Application
3-21-7: Suspension or Revocation
3-21-8: Manager Required
3-21-9: Workers; Payment
3-21-10: Occasions Regulated
3-21-11: Leased Premises
3-21-12: Prizes
3-21-13: Records
3-21-14: Reports
3-21-15: Enforcement
3-21-16: Right of Access
3-21-17: Use of Receipts
3-21-18: Use of Profits
3-21-19: Penalties
3-21-20: Effective Date
3-21-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this Ordinance is to closely regulate and control the conduct of
the game of bingo and to prohibit commercialization of bingo.
3-21-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following terms appear in this Ordinance, they shall have the
meanings assigned to them in this Section:
   (A)   ACTIVE MEMBER: A member of the organization requesting a license whose
dues are paid for the current membership period and who has been a member for
at least six (6) months.
   (B)   BINGO: A game where each player has a card or board for which a
consideration has been paid, containing five (5) horizontal rows of spaces,
with each row except the central one containing five (5) figures. The central
row has four (4) figures with the word "free" marked in the center space
thereof. A player wins a game of bingo by completing any preannounced
combination of spaces or, in the absence of a preannouncement of a combination
of spaces, any combination of five (5) spaces in a row, either vertical,
horizontal or diagonal.
   (C)   BINGO OCCASION: A single gathering or session at which a series of one
or more successive bingo games is played.
   (D)   ELIGIBLE ORGANIZATION: Any fraternal, religious, veterans, or other
nonprofit organization which has been in existence for at least three (3) years
and has at least thirty (30) active members.
   (E)   PROFIT: The gross receipts collected from one or more bingo occasions
less reasonable sums necessarily and actually expended for bingo supplies and
equipment, prizes, rent, and utilities used during the bingo occasions, bingo
license fees and compensation to persons lawfully hired to conduct or assist in
conducting a bingo occasion.
3-21-3: EXEMPT ACTIVITY:
The following situations in which bingo is conducted are exempt from certain
portions of M.S. Ch. 349, and of this Ordinance:
   (A)   In connection with a county fair conducted by a county agricultural
society.
   (B)   At the State fair conducted by the State Agricultural Society.
   (C)   In connection with a civic celebration recognized by an official
action of the local governing body.
   (D)   When conducted fewer than five (5) times in a year by any particular
organization which is otherwise eligible for a license.
3-21-4: EXEMPT REQUIREMENTS:
The following requirements of M.S. Ch. 349 and of this Ordinance do not apply
to the exempt activities listed in 3-21-3 above:
   (A)   That the sponsoring organization has at least thirty (30) active
members. (3-21-2(D))
   (B)   That the sponsoring organization be licensed by the local government.
(3-21-5)
   (C)   The limits on the number of bingo occasions per week and the length of
any one bingo occasion. (3-21-10(B) and (C))
   (D)   All of the regulations pertaining to bingo on leased premises
contained in M.S. 349.17, Subd. 3. (3-21-11)
3-21-5: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No bingo occasion shall be conducted except by an eligible organization which
has secured a license for that purpose as provided in this Ordinance.
   (A)   Term of License: A license shall be valid from January 1 to December
31.
   (B)   Annual Fee: The license fee shall be that set by Council and shall not
be prorated.
   (C)   Action Period: A license application shall be acted upon by the
Council no sooner than thirty (30) days and no later than one hundred eighty
(180) days after the date of application.
   (D)   Transfer: No bingo license issued may be transferred to any other
person or organization. No bingo license shall be transferred to any location
other than the location specified in the license, without prior approval by the
Council.
3-21-6: APPLICATION:
Every application for a bingo license shall be made to the City Clerk on a form
supplied by the City.
   (A)   Endorsement: Copies of each application shall be referred to the
City's Police Chief, Fire Chief and Building Inspector, for their
recommendations.
3-21-7: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION:
The Council may suspend or revoke any bingo license for violation of any
provision of M.S., Ch. 349 or this Ordinance.
   (A)   Suspension: Suspension may not exceed sixty (60) days.
   (B)   Right to Hearing: The holder of the license shall be granted a hearing
upon at least ten (10) days' notice before revocation or suspension is ordered.
The notice shall state the time and place of the hearing and the nature of the
charges against the licensee.
3-21-8: MANAGER REQUIRED:
Each licensed organization shall appoint a bingo manager to supervise bingo
occasions conducted by it.
   (A)   Qualification: The bingo manager must be a member of the licensed
organization, with dues paid for the current membership period, and must have
been a member of the organization for at least two (2) years. (Ord. 080-99, 12-
1-80)
   (B)   Fidelity Bond: The bingo manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) in favor of the organization conditioned
on the faithful performance of his or her duties. Terms of the bond shall
provide that notice shall be given in writing to the City Council not less than
sixty (60) days prior to its cancellation. The governing body of a local unit
of government may waive this bond requirement by including a waiver provision
in the bingo license issued to an organization, provided that a license
containing such a provision shall be granted only by unanimous vote. (Ord. 083-
141, 3-7-83)
   (C)   Responsibility: The manager shall personally and directly supervise
each bingo occasion in compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (D)   Relationship Exclusive: No person shall act as bingo manager for more
than one organization.
3-21-9: WORKERS; PAYMENT:
Other workers may be provided for as follows:
   (A)   Checkers: One or more checkers shall be engaged for each bingo
occasion, The checkers shall be active members of the licensed organization or
spouses of active members of the licensed organization. The checker or checkers
shall record the number of cards purchased and played in each game prior to the
completion of each game and record the prizes awarded to the recorded cards.
Each checker shall certify all figures which he or she has recorded as accurate
and correct to the best of his or her knowledge, on forms prescribed by the
City Clerk.
   (B)   Other Workers: Additional persons may be engaged for other duties in
connection with bingo occasions as needed, but no person shall assist in the
conduct of a bingo occasion who is not an active member of the licensed
organization, or the spouse of an active member of the licensed organization.
   (C)   Pay: No person shall receive more than twelve dollars ($12.00) as
compensation for any duties in connection with any one bingo occasion.
3-21-10: OCCASIONS REGULATED:
Bingo occasions are regulated as follows:
   (A)   Yearly Limitation: No more than one hundred four (104) bingo occasions
each year shall be permitted.
   (B)   Weekly Limitation: No more than two (2) bingo occasions each week
shall be permitted.
   (C)   Duration Limitation: A bingo occasion shall not continue for more than
four (4) consecutive hours.
3-21-11: LEASED PREMISES:
Leased premises on which bingo occasions are conducted are subject to certain
restrictions:
   (A)   Multiple Leases: Any person, corporation or eligible organization
which leases any premises that it owns to two (2) or more eligible
organizations for the purposes including the conduct of bingo occasions, shall
not allow more than four (4) bingo occasions to be conducted on the premises in
any week.
   (B)   Shared Premises: Any eligible organization which leases any premises
to one or more other eligible organizations for purposes including the conduct
of bingo occasions is subject to certain requirements.
      1.   Proceeds: The proceeds of the rental, less reasonable sums for
maintenance, furnishings and other necessary expenses, only for the uses for
which bingo profits may be used, as set out in Section
 3-21-13 of this Ordinance.
      2.   Reports: No less than once each year the lessor organization shall
report to the City Council the disposition of all receipts which it has
received during the reporting period from the rental of its facilities to other
organizations for purposes including the conduct of bingo occasions.
   (C)   Terms of Lease: No eligible organization shall conduct bingo on any
leased premises without a written lease for a term at least equal to the
remainder of the term of the bingo license of the lessee organization. Lease
payments shall be a fixed monthly rate, or rate per bingo occasion, not subject
to change during the term of the lease. No such lease shall provide that rental
payments be based on a percentage of receipts or profits from bingo occasions.
3-21-12: PRIZES:
The award of prizes shall be controlled by this Ordinance.
   (A)   Limitations: Prizes for a single bingo game shall not exceed one
hundred dollars ($100.00) except prizes for a game of the type commonly known
as a "coverall" game. "Coverall" prizes may exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00) provided that the aggregate value of such prizes for a bingo occasion
shall not exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00) . The aggregate value of prizes
for a bingo occasion shall not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars
($2,500.00) except that in the case of a bingo occasion during which a
"coverall" game is played for a maximum prize of more than one hundred dollars
($100.00) but less than five hundred dollars ($500.00), the aggregate value of
prizes for the bingo occasion shall not exceed three thousand dollars
($3,000.00).
   (B)   Merchandise: Merchandise prizes shall be valued at fair market retail
value.
   (C)   Prizes: Each bingo winner shall be determined and every prize shall be
awarded and delivered the same day on which the bingo occasion is conducted.
3-21-13: RECORDS:
Each licensed organization shall keep records of its gross receipts and profits
for each bingo occasion.
   (A)   Content: All deductions from gross receipts from a bingo occasion
shall be documented with receipts or other records. The distribution of profits
shall be itemized as to payee, amount, and date of payment. Records required by
this Ordinance shall be preserved for three (3) years.
   (B)   Verification: Gross receipts shall be compared to the checkers'
records for a bingo occasion by a person who did not sell cards for the bingo
occasion. If a discrepancy exceeding twenty dollars ($20.00) is found between
the amount of gross receipts for a bingo occasion as determined by the
checkers' records, and the amount of gross receipts as determined by totaling
the cash receipts, the discrepancy shall be reported to and investigated by the
City.
   (C)   Separate Account: Bingo gross receipts shall be segregated from other
revenues of an organization and placed in a separate account. Each organization
shall maintain separate records of its bingo operations.
   (D)   Divided Responsibility: The person who accounts for bingo gross
receipts and profits shall not be the same person who accounts for other
revenues of the licensed organization.
3-21-14: REPORTS:
Specific reports are required of the licensee.
   (A)   Monthly: Each licensed organization shall report monthly to its
membership its gross receipts from bingo, its profits from bingo, and the
distribution of those profits itemized as required in Section 9, Subd. 1.
   (B)   Annual: On an annual basis, each licensed organization shall file with
the Council copies of the following:
      1.   The most recently filed Department of Treasury, Internal Revenue
Service "Return of Organization Exempt from Income Tax", Form 990, or a
comparable form if the organization is required to file the form with the
Department of Treasury.
      2.   The most recently filed Department of Treasury, Internal Revenue
Service "Exempt Organization Business Income Tax", Form 990-T, or a comparable
form if the organization is required to file the form with the Department of
Treasury.
      3.   The most recently filed annual report required of charitable
organizations by M.S. 309.53, provided that an organization that is licensed to
conduct bingo but is exempt from submitting this report to the Department of
Commerce under Sec. 309.53, Subd. la, shall nevertheless submit such a report
under this subdivision.
      4.   The most recently filed Minnesota Department of Commerce "Statement
of Bingo Operations". All information contained in the statement shall be true,
correct and complete to the best of the knowledge of the person or persons
signing the statement.
      5.   A copy of any lease agreements required by this act, executed by the
organization in regard to premises leased for the conduct of bingo.
3-21-15: ENFORCEMENT:
It shall be the responsibility of the Police Chief to enforce this Ordinance
and to conduct inspections and investigations necessary to that enforcement.
3-21-16: RIGHT OF ACCESS:
The licensee shall permit reasonable access to the premises and records of the
licensee in furtherance of the enforcement of this Ordinance.
3-21-17: USE OF RECEIPTS:
No expenses shall be incurred or amounts paid in connection with the conduct of
bingo, except those reasonably expended for bingo supplies and equipment,
prizes, rent or utilities used during the bingo occasion, bingo license fees,
and compensation to persons lawfully hired to conduct or assist in conducting a
bingo occasion.
3-21-18: USE OF PROFITS:
Profits from any bingo occasion shall be expended only as authorized by a
resolution recorded in the official minutes at a regular meeting of the
licensed organization and only for one or more of the following purposes:
   (A)   Benefiting persons by enhancing their opportunity for religious or
educational advancement, by relieving or protecting them from disease
suffering, or distress, by contributing to their physical well-being by
assisting them in establishing themselves in life as worthy and useful
citizens, or by increasing their comprehension of and devotion to the
principles upon which this nation was founded.
   (B)   Initiating, performing or fostering worthy public works or enabling or
furthering the erection or maintenance of public structures.
   (C)   Lessening the burdens borne by government or voluntarily supporting,
augmenting or supplementing services which government would normally render to
the people.
   (D)   The improving, expanding, maintaining or repairing of real property
owned or leased by the licensed organization.
   (E)   Profits from bingo occasions shall not be expended for the erection or
acquisition of any real property, unless the City Council specifically
authorizes the expenditures after finding that the property will be used
exclusively for one or more of the purposes specified in this Section.
3-21-19: PENALTIES:
Violation of any provision of this Ordinance shall be a misdemeanor. A person
convicted of violating any provision of this Ordinance shall be subject to a
fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisonment for a term
not to exceed ninety (90) days or both, plus in either case the costs of
prosecution.
3-21-20: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This Ordinance becomes effective upon its passage and publication according to
law. (Ord. 080-99, 12-1-80)
FA192   03-22.TXT
CHAPTER 22
EXCAVATIONS AND MINING
SECTION:
3-22-1: Purpose and Intent
3-22-2: Definitions
3-22-3: Permit Required
3-22-4: Exemptions From Permit Requirements
3-22-5: Applications for Permits; Procedures, Contents of Applications
3-22-6: Council Review and Approval of Overall Plan; Function of Renewable
Annual Permits
3-22-7: Termination of Permit
3-22-8: Annual Permits; Renewal; Conditions
3-22-9: Issuance of Permit Imposes No Liability on City and Relieves the
Permittee of No Responsibilities, etc.
3-22-10: Fees
3-22-11: Performance Bond or Irrevocable Letter of Credit
3-22-12: Standards - Extraction Site Location
3-22-13: Fencing
3-22-14: Appearance and Screening at the Extraction Site
3-22-15: Operations; Noise; Hours; Explosives; Dust; Water Pollution; Topsoil
Preservation
3-22-16: Rehabilitation Standards
3-22-1: PURPOSES AND INTENT:
The purpose of this Ordinance is to promote the health, safety and welfare of
the community and to establish reasonable uniform limitations, standards,
safeguards and controls for excavation and mining within the City.
3-22-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases shall have the following meanings
respectively ascribed to them:
MINE or EXCAVATION: (A) Any excavation made by the removal of the natural
surface of the earth, whether sod, dirt, soil, sand, gravel, stone, or other
matter, creating a depression or depressions.
   (B)   Any area where the topsoil or overburden has been removed for the
purpose of mining earthly deposits or minerals, yet the area has remained idle
since the topsoil removal.
   (C)   Any area that is being used for stockpiling, storage, and processing
of sand, gravel, black dirt, clay and other minerals.
OVERBURDEN: Those materials which lie between the surface of the earth and
material deposit to be extracted.
REHABILITATION: To renew land to self-sustaining long term use which is
compatible with contiguous land uses, present and future, in accordance with
the standards set forth in this Chapter.
TOPSOIL: That portion of the overburden which lies closest to the earth's
surface and supports the growth of vegetation.
3-22-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, it shall be unlawful for anyone
to operate a mine or excavate without having first obtained a written permit
from the City authorizing the same in accordance with this Chapter. Mining and
excavation operations that predate this Chapter that do not have a permit shall
obtain a permit within six (6) months after the adoption of this Chapter.
Current permit holders shall come into compliance with the terms of this
Chapter no later than the time their annual permit is renewed.
3-22-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
The following activities do not require a permit under this Chapter:
   (A)   Excavation for a foundation, cellar or basement of a building if a
building permit has been issued.
   (B)   Grading a lot in conjunction with building if a building permit has
been issued.
   (C)   Excavation by the Federal, State, County or City government which is
integral to construction or maintenance of roads, highways or utilities.
   (D)   Curb cuts, utility hookups or street openings for which another permit
has been issued by the city.
   (E)   Excavation of less than one thousand (1,000) cubic yards in a calendar
year.
   (F)   Excavation of less than one hundred (100) square feet of surface area
in a calendar year.
   (G)   Excavation or grading for agricultural purposes.
   (H)   Excavation or grading in accordance with development contract approved
under the city's subdivision ordinance. If the development contract requires
that a letter of credit or other security be posted, the letter of credit or
other security must be posted before any excavation takes place. (Ord. 092-278,
8-3-1992)
   (I)   Excavation or grading authorized by the public works director
following preliminary plat approval under the city's subdivision ordinance and
prior to final plat approval, provided the excavation and grading activities
are consistent with plans submitted and approved by the public works director,
the applicant has paid the applicable fees and provided adequate surety in an
amount and form approved by the director of public works, and the applicant
complies with any other reasonable conditions imposed by the public works
director. The developer of a plat assumes all risk involved with grading a site
before final plat and street and utility plan approval. Any changes to the
grading of a site including any corresponding costs necessitated by the
resolution of any design issues identified during the approval process of the
final plat and street and utility construction plans, are the sole
responsibility of the developer. (Ord. 099-437, 9-20-1999)
3-22-5: APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS; PROCEDURES, CONTENTS OF APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   An application for a mine or excavation permit shall be processed in
accordance with the same procedures and requirements specified in this code
relating to conditional use permits. However, the hearing shall be held by the
city council following a review and recommendation from the planning
commission. All applications dealing with land in floodplains shall also comply
with requirements listed in section
10-5-23 of this code. (Ord. 096-375, 7-1-1996; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
   (B)   An application for a mine or excavation permit shall contain:
      1.   The name and address of the operator and owner of the land.
      2.   The correct legal description of the property where the activity is
proposed to occur.
      3.   A certified abstract listing the names of all landowners owning
property within three hundred fifty feet (350') of the boundary of the property
described above.
      4.   Specifications of the following, using appropriate maps, photographs
and surveys:
(a) The physical relationship of the proposed designated site to the community
and existing development;
(b) Site topography and natural features including location of watercourses and
water bodies;
(c) The description and quantity of material to be excavated;
(d) The depth of water tables throughout the area.
      5.   The purpose of the operation.
      6.   The estimated time required to complete the operation.
      7.   The plan of operation, including processing, nature of the
processing and equipment, location of the plant, source of water, disposal of
water and reuse of water.
      8.   Desired haul routes to and from the site.
      9.   The plans for drainage, water erosion control, sedimentation and
dust control.
      10.   A rehabilitation plan provided for the orderly and continuing
rehabilitation of all disturbed land. Such plan shall illustrate, using
photograph maps and surveys where appropriate, the following:
(a) The contour of land prior to excavation, if available, after completion of
excavation and after completion of rehabilitation;
(b) Those areas of the site to be used for storage of topsoil and overburden;
(c) A schedule setting forth the timetable for excavation of land lying within
the extraction facility;
(d) A timetable for the rehabilitation of land lying within the excavation
facility shall be submitted to the City well in advance of the completion of
excavation activities;
(e) The slope of all slopes after rehabilitation, based upon proposed land
uses, and description of the type and quantity of plantings where revegetation
is to be conducted; and
(f) The criteria and standards to be used to achieve final rehabilitation as
well as intermittent stabilization.
      11.   A statement identifying the applicant's program to ensure
compliance with the permit conditions, method of response to complaints and
resolving conflicts that may arise as a result of complaints. (Ord. 092-278, 8-
3-1992)
3-22-6: COUNCIL REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF OVERALL PLAN; FUNCTION OF RENEWABLE
ANNUAL PERMITS:
   (A)   A public hearing shall be held before the Council on each permit
application. Notice of the hearing shall be published by the Clerk at least ten
(10) days before the hearing. The City Council shall review the permit
application and shall approve the permit if it is in compliance with this
Chapter, the City's Zoning Ordinance, and other applicable laws, ordinances,
and regulations. The Council may attach conditions to the permit approval to
promote safety and prevent nuisance conditions. The rehabilitation plan shall
only be approved if it is consistent with the uses allowed in the City's
Comprehensive Plan and Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Implementation of the overall plan shall be by means of renewable
annual permit. The purpose of the renewable permit is to assure compliance with
the longer range overall plan and to retain the ability to modify existing or
to attach new conditions in accordance with changing characteristics of the
site or its surroundings. The City Administrator, after consultation with
appropriate City staff, may issue renewal licenses upon satisfactory proof of
compliance with this Chapter. If the City Administrator denies a renewal
license, the applicant may appeal the decision to the City Council by filing a
notice of appeal with the City Clerk within ten (10) days after the City
Administrator denies the permit.
3-22-7: TERMINATION OF PERMIT:
   (A)   The material excavation permit may be terminated for violation of this
Chapter or any conditions of the permit. No permit may be terminated until the
City Council has held a public hearing to determine whether the permit shall be
terminated, at which time the operator shall be afforded an opportunity to
contest the termination. The City Council may establish certain conditions,
which if not complied with, will result in immediate suspension of operations
until the public hearing to consider termination of the permit can be held.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to conduct mineral extraction or excavation after
a permit has been terminated.
3-22-8: ANNUAL PERMITS; RENEWAL; CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Application for renewal of an annual permit shall be made sixty (60)
days prior to the expiration date. If application for renewal is not made
within the required time, all operations shall be terminated and reinstatement
of the permit may be granted only upon compliance with the procedures set forth
in this Chapter for an original application.
   (B)   A permit may be approved or renewed subject to compliance with
conditions in addition to those set forth in this Chapter when such conditions
are reasonable and necessary to ensure compliance with the requirements and
purpose of this Chapter. When such conditions are established, they shall be
set forth specifically in the permit. Conditions may, among other matters,
limit the size, kind or character of the proposed operation, require the
construction of structures, require the staging of extraction over a time
period, require the alteration of the site design to ensure compliance with the
standards, require the provision of a performance bond by the operator to
ensure compliance with these regulations in this Chapter or other similar
requirements.
3-22-9: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT IMPOSES NO LIABILITY ON CITY AND RELIEVES PERMITTEE
OF NO RESPONSIBILITIES, ETC.:
Neither the issuance of a permit under this Chapter, nor compliance with the
conditions thereof or with the provisions of this Chapter shall relieve any
person from any responsibility otherwise imposed by law for damage to persons
or property; nor shall the issuance of any permit under this Chapter serve to
impose a liability on the City, its officers or employees for any injury or
damage to persons or property. A permit issued pursuant to this Chapter does
not relieve the permittee of the responsibility of securing and complying with
any other permit which may be required by any other law, ordinance or
regulation.
3-22-10: FEES:
A schedule of fees for the examination and approval of applications for permits
under this Chapter and the inspection of operations for compliance with the
conditions of this Chapter and the permit shall be determined by resolution of
the City Council, which may, from time to time, change such schedule. Prior to
the approval and issuance or renewal of any permit under this Chapter, such
fees shall be paid to the City and deposited to the credit of the General Fund.
3-22-11: PERFORMANCE BOND OR IRREVOCABLE LETTER OF CREDIT:
Prior to the approval and issuance of a permit, there shall be executed by the
operator and submitted to the City Administrator, an agreement to construct
such required improvements, to dedicate such property or easements, if any, to
the City and to comply with such conditions as may have been established by the
City Council. Such agreement shall be accompanied by bond with surety or
condition acceptable to the City Administrator in the amount of the established
costs of complying with the agreement. The aforesaid agreement, bond or letter
of credit shall be provided for guaranteeing completion and compliance with the
conditions set forth in the permit within the time to be approved by the City
Council. The adequacy, conditions and acceptability or any bond or letter of
credit hereunder shall be determined by the City Administrator. The adequacy of
the bond or letter of credit shall be reviewed annually by the City. The City
may direct the amount of the bond or letter of credit be increased to reflect
inflation or changed conditions.
3-22-12: STANDARDS - EXTRACTION SITE LOCATION:
Operations permitted under this Chapter shall not be conducted within:
   (A)   Fifty feet (50') of an existing street or highway;
   (B)   Thirty feet (30') of the right of way of an existing public utility;
   (C)   Fifty feet (50') of the boundary of any zone where such operations are
not permitted; or
   (D)   Thirty feet (30') of the boundary of an adjoining property not in
mining use; or as directed by the City Council.
3-22-13: FENCING:
During operations which have received a permit under this Chapter, any area
where collections of water are one and one-half feet (11/2') in depth or more,
or where excavation slopes are steeper than one foot vertical to one and one-
half feet horizontal (1:11/2), and any other areas where obvious danger to the
public exists, shall be fenced when such a situation has existed or will exist
for a period of five (5) working days or longer. The City Engineer shall review
such fencing to assure its adequacy. He may waive this requirement or require
additional measures based on his judgment and the characteristics of the
particular instances. As an alternative, the City Engineer may require
perimeter fencing of the entire extraction site.
3-22-14: APPEARANCE AND SCREENING AT THE EXTRACTION SITE:
The following standards are required at the extraction site of any operation
permitted under this Chapter:
   (A)   Machinery shall be kept in good repair.
   (B)   Abandoned machinery, inoperable equipment and rubbish shall be removed
from the site regularly.
   (C)   All buildings and equipment that have not been used for a period of
one year shall be removed from the site.
   (D)   All equipment and temporary structures shall be removed and dismantled
not later than ninety (90) days after termination of the extraction operation
and expiration of the permit.
   (E)   Where practical, stockpiles of overburden and materials shall be used
to screen the extraction. The side slopes of such stockpiles shall not exceed
three to one (3:1).
   (F)   The perimeter of the site shall be planted or otherwise screened when
such is determined by the City Council to be necessary.
   (G)   Existing tree and ground cover shall be preserved to the extent
feasible, maintained and supplemented by selective cutting, transplanting of
trees, shrubs, and other ground cover along all setback areas.
3-22-15: OPERATIONS; NOISE; HOURS; EXPLOSIVES; DUST; WATER POLLUTION; TOPSOIL
PRESERVATION:
The following operating standards shall be observed at the extraction site of
any operation permitted under this Chapter:
   (A)   The maximum noise level at the perimeter of the site shall be within
the limits set by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and the Federal
Environmental Protection Agency.
   (B)   Extraction and hauling operations shall be performed during only those
times established by the City Council as part of the permit.
   (C)   Operators shall utilize all practical means to eliminate vibration
from equipment operation on adjacent property .
   (D)   Operators shall comply with all applicable City, County, State and
Federal regulations for the protection of water quality, including the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and Federal Environmental Protection Agency
regulations for the protection of water quality. No waste products or process
residue shall be deposited in any lake, stream or natural drainage system. All
waste water shall pass through a sediment basin before drainage into a stream.
   (E)   All topsoil shall be retained at the site until complete
rehabilitation of the site has taken place according to the rehabilitation
plan.
   (F)   Operators shall use all practical means to reduce the amount of dust,
smoke and fumes caused by the operations.
3-22-16: REHABILITATION STANDARDS:
The following rehabilitation standards shall apply to the site of any operation
permitted under this Chapter.
   (A)   Rehabilitation shall be a continuing operation occurring as quickly as
possible after the extraction operation has moved sufficiently into another
part of the extraction site.
   (B)   All banks and slopes shall be left in accordance with the
rehabilitation plan submitted with the permit application.
   (C)   Slopes, graded areas and backfill areas shall be surfaced with
adequate topsoil to secure and hold ground cover. Such ground cover shall be
tended as necessary until it is self-sustained.
   (D)   All water areas resulting from excavation shall be eliminated upon
rehabilitation of the site. In unique instances where the City Council has
reviewed proposals for water bodies at the time of approval of the overall plan
and has determined that such would be appropriate as an open space or
recreational amenity in subsequent reuse of the site, water bodies may be
permitted.
   (E)   No part of the rehabilitation area which is planned for uses other
than open space or agriculture shall be at an elevation lower than the minimum
required for connection to a sanitary or storm sewer. (Ord. 092-278, 8-3-92)
fa192   3-23
CHAPTER 23
YOUTH RECREATION FACILITY
SECTION:
3-23-1: Purpose
3-23-2: Definitions
3-23-3: License Required
3-23-4: Application
3-23-5: Execution of Application
3-23-6: Fees
3-23-7: Persons Ineligible for a License
3-23-8: Exemptions
3-23-9: Grant of Licenses
3-23-10: License Not Transferable
3-23-11: Conditions of License
3-23-12: Suspension
3-23-13: Revocation
3-23-14: Appeal
3-23-15: Duration of License
3-23-16: Regulations
3-23-17: Youth Recreation Facility Distinguished
3-23-18: Health and Disease Control
3-23-19: Construction and Maintenance Requirements
3-23-20: Inspection
3-23-21: Identification of Employees
3-23-22: Violations
3-23-23: Hours
3-23-24: Enforcement
3-23-1: PURPOSE:
An Ordinance regulating, protecting and promoting the public health, safety and
general welfare of the people of the City of Farmington by regulating the
operation and licensing of Youth Recreation Facilities.
3-23-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Ordinance, the terms defined in the subsections shall have the
following meanings ascribed to them:
EMPLOYEE: An individual working for the licensee for financial compensation.
GAMING DEVICES: Pin ball machines, bowling machines, foosball machines, pool
tables or any other type of gaming device which is operated by coins, chips or
tokens of any kind, or which device is rented to the public.
LICENSE: Includes permits of every kind, nature and description issued pursuant
to any statute or ordinance for the carrying on of any business, trade,
vocation, commercial enterprise or undertaking.
LICENSED BUSINESS: Any business, trade, vocation, commercial enterprise or
undertaking for which a license is issued.
LICENSED PREMISES: The place or building or the room in a building, designated
in the license as the place where the licensed business is to be carried on,
and all land adjacent thereto and used in connection with and in the operation
of a licensed business and all adjacent and contiguous rooms or buildings used
in connection with the buildings where the licensed business is carried on.
LICENSEE: Any person to whom a license is issued.
OPERATE: To manage, run or control a business.
PERSON: An individual, co-partnership, association or corporation, or other
entity or organization.
YOUTH RECREATION FACILITY: An enterprise, whose primary focus is to provide
recreational activity for minors.
3-23-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person in the City of Farmington shall engage in the business of operating
an enterprise defined in Section
3-23-2, either exclusively or in connection with any other business enterprise,
without first obtaining a license issued by the City. A person engaged in the
business of operating an enterprise on the date this Ordinance becomes
effective shall apply for a license within sixty (60) days of the effective
date of this Ordinance.
   (A)   A person commits an offense if the person operates an enterprise
described in Section
3-23-2 without a valid license issued by the City.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
City Clerk. The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with accurate
dimensions of the interior of the premises.
   (C)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
Chapter and the premises may be inspected at any time without warrant to assure
compliance with the law by the appropriate City personnel and its authorized
representatives and agents.
   (D)   If the person wishing to operate an enterprise as described in Section
3-23-2 is an individual, the individual must sign the application for a license
as applicant. If an applicant is other than an individual, each individual who
has a ten percent (10%) or greater interest in the business must sign the
application for a license as applicant. Each applicant must be qualified under
Section
3-23-4 and each applicant shall be considered a licensee if a license is
granted.
   (E)   Any falsification of the application shall result in denial or
revocation of the license.
3-23-4: APPLICATION:
Every application for a license under this Ordinance shall be filed with the
City Clerk. Each application shall be made on a form supplied by the City.
3-23-5: EXECUTION OF APPLICATION:
All applications for license shall be signed and sworn to. If the application
is that of a natural person, it shall be signed and sworn to by such person; if
by a corporation, by an officer thereof; if by a partnership, by all of the
partners; and if by an unincorporated association, by the manager or managing
officer thereof.
3-23-6: FEES:
   (A)   License Fees: Each application shall be accompanied by payment in full
of the required license fee. The City Council shall, by resolution, establish
the amount of the business license fee. Upon rejection of any application for a
license, the City shall refund the amount paid. No other refunds shall be made.
   (B)   Investigation Fees: At the time of each original application for a
business license, there shall be paid in full an investigation fee. At the time
of each renewal application for a business license there shall be paid in full
an investigation fee. The City Council shall, by resolution, establish the
amount of the original investigation fee and the renewal investigation fee. No
investigation fee shall be refunded. (Ord. 090-229, 2-5-90)
   (C)   License Duration: All licenses shall be in effect from January 1
through December 31, except those licenses issued during a calendar year shall
be prorated from the date of issuance until December 31. (Ord. 090-238, 10-1-
90)
3-23-7: PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR A LICENSE:
The City Council shall deny issuance of a license if one or more of the
following are true:
   (A)   An applicant is under eighteen (18) years of age.
   (B)   An applicant is overdue in his payment to the City of taxes, fees,
fines or penalties assessed him or imposed upon him.
   (C)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license; or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
   (D)   An applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of this
Chapter, other than the offense of operating an enterprise described in Section
3-23-2 without a license, or a related State law, within two (2) years
immediately preceding the application.
   (E)   The premises to be used for the enterprise has not been approved by
the appropriate City personnel as being in compliance with applicable laws and
ordinances.
   (F)   The license fee required by this Chapter has not been paid.
   (G)   An applicant has been employed in an enterprise described in Section
 3-23-2 in a managerial capacity within the preceding twelve (12) months and
has demonstrated that he is unable to operate or manage the premises in a
peaceful and law abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law enforcement
officers.
   (H)   An applicant who has been convicted of any of the following sexually
oriented crimes: Minnesota Statutes 609.293 through 609.352; sale or furnishing
of tobacco to minors (Minnesota Statutes 609.685, subd. (1)(a) and (2);
procuring alcohol for persons under twenty one (21) years of age (Minnesota
Statutes 340A.503); any controlled substance crime contained in Minnesota
Statutes 152 or Contributing to the Delinquency of a Minor (Minnesota Statutes
260.315).
   (I)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the disqualification of the applicant.
   (J)   The applicant or person in his employ are not complying with or have a
history of violations of the laws and ordinances that apply to health, safety
or moral turpitude.
3-23-8: EXEMPTIONS:
Daycare facilities as defined by Minnesota Statute 245.782, subd. 5-6 and
operating under (M.S. 245.802) rules established by the Commissioner of Human
Services shall be exempted from provisions of this Section.
3-23-9: GRANT OF LICENSES:
   (A)   All applications shall be referred to the City Clerk for verification
and investigation of the facts set forth in the application. The Chief of
Police and other consultants shall make a written recommendation to the City
Council as to issuance or nonissuance of the license. The City Council may
order and conduct such additional investigation as it deems necessary.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the written report and recommendation by the Chief of
Police, the City Clerk shall publish in the official newspaper notice of a
hearing to be held by the City Council. The notice shall be published at least
ten (10) days in advance of the hearing; and it shall set forth the day, time
and place when the hearing will be held; the name of the applicant, the
premises where the business is to be conducted; the nature of the business; and
such information as the Council may direct. A license, other than a renewal,
shall not be approved by the City Council prior to such hearing.
   (C)   Renewal Applications. No less than ten (10) days nor more than fifteen
(15) days after the date for submitting renewal applications, the City Council
shall hold a public hearing. Notice of the time and place of such hearing and
the fact that a renewal application shall be considered shall be published in
the official newspaper ten (10) days in advance of the hearing. Opportunity
shall be given to any person to be heard for or against the granting of a
renewal license by the City Council. (Ord. 090-229, 2-5-90)
   (D)   Change of Location: A license shall not change location without first
submitting a new application pursuant to this Chapter and obtaining approval by
the City Council. If the proposed location meets zoning requirements, the
Council may approve the application. If the proposed location does not meet
zoning requirements, the applicant shall first obtain zoning approval before
being considered by the Council. A public hearing is not required for approval
of a change of location pursuant to this Chapter. (Ord. 091-243, 2-11-91)
3-23-10: LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE:
Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and shall not be
transferable to another holder. No licensee shall loan, sell, give or assign a
license to another person.
3-23-11: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
A business requiring a license under provision of this Chapter shall maintain a
ratio of at least one adult employee working on the licensed premises for each
thirty (30) patrons on the licensed premises.
3-23-12: SUSPENSION:
The City Administrator shall suspend a license for a period not to exceed
thirty (30) days if the City Administrator determines that an employee of a
licensee has:
   (A)   Violated any provisions of this Chapter.
   (B)   Engaged in the use of alcoholic beverage, tobacco or use of a
controlled substance while on licensed premises.
   (C)   Refused to allow an inspection of the licensed premises as authorized
by this Chapter.
   (D)   Demonstrated inability to operate or manage the enterprise in a
peaceful and law abiding manner thus necessitating action by law enforcement
officers.
3-23-13: REVOCATION:
   (A)   The City Council may revoke a license if a cause of suspension in
Section
 3-23-11 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding twelve
(12) months.
   (B)   The City Council shall revoke a license if it is determined that:
      1.   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted during the application process.
      2.   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use or
sale of alcohol or controlled substance at the licensed premises.
      3.   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the enterprise during a
period of time when the licensee's license was suspended.
      4.   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in Section
3-23-4.
      5.   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the City for ad valorem
taxes, local lodging tax, or other taxes or fees related to the enterprise.
   (C)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
the revocation of the license.
3-23-14: APPEAL:
   (A)   If the City Council or designee denies the issuance of a license, or
suspends or revokes a license, the City Administrator shall send to the
applicant or licensee, by certified mail, return receipt, written notice of the
action and the right to an appeal. The aggrieved party may appeal the decision
of the City Council or designee in writing within ten (10) days of receiving
notice of the City's action. The filing fee of an appeal does not stay the
action of the City Council or designee in suspending or revoking a license.
   (B)   Procedure: Upon receipt of a written appeal, the City Council may
appoint a committee of the Council or an independent hearing officer to hear
the matter, report findings of fact and a recommendation for disposition to the
Council. Upon receipt of recommendation for disposition, the Council shall
conduct a public hearing which shall be preceded by ten (10) day written notice
to the licensee stating the time and place of the hearing and the nature of the
hearing. Hearings on the appeal shall be open to the public and the licensee or
applicant shall have the right to appear and be represented by legal counsel
and to offer evidence in its behalf. At the conclusion of the hearing, the City
Council shall make a final decision.
   (C)   Additional Requirements: The City Council may base denial, suspension,
revocation or nonrenewal of a license upon any additional grounds which they
may, in their sole discretion, impose.
3-23-15: DURATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   All licenses issued pursuant to this Ordinance shall be effective for
a period not to exceed one year. All licenses shall expire on December 31 of
each year.
   (B)   Application for renewal shall be made at least sixty (60) days prior
to the expiration date.
3-23-16: REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Such establishments shall provide adequate refuse receptacles which
shall be emptied as required.
   (B)   Possession of any alcoholic beverage or narcotic drugs or controlled
substances on the premises by licensee, employee or patron shall be prohibited.
   (C)   The licensed premises shall not admit any patrons nor shall any
patrons be permitted on the premises between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
   (D)   No persons under eighteen (18) years of age may be employed in an
establishment requiring a license under the provisions of this Chapter of
purposes of management or supervision of patrons as defined in Section
3-23-10.
   (E)   The applicant shall furnish the City with a list of current employees,
indicating their names and dates of birth and designating the duties of the
employees within the licensed premises. The licensee shall promptly notify the
City of any additions to or deletions from the list of employees or changes in
their job description or duties.
   (F)   The licensed premises and its contents must be kept and maintained in
a sanitary condition.
   (G)   Premises shall comply with all health, safety, and building
regulations of the City of Farmington.
   (H)   Youth Recreation Facilities shall not be detrimental to the health,
welfare or safety of the citizens of the City of Farmington.
   (I)   No one shall be employed by the youth recreation facility who has been
convicted of any offense contained in subsection
3-23-7(H) within the past five (5) years.
3-23-17: YOUTH RECREATION FACILITY DISTINGUISHED:
A private enterprise, the primary focus of which is to provide recreational
activity for minors. This distinction does not preclude the use of said
facilities by adults, either privately or in conjunction with minor patrons.
3-23-18: HEALTH AND DISEASE CONTROL:
No person while afflicted with any disease in a communicable form or while a
carrier of such disease, or while afflicted with boils, infected wounds, sores
or any acute respiratory infection may work in or use the services of any
licensed premises. No persons known or suspected of being afflicted with any
such disease or condition shall be employed or permitted in such area or
capacity.
3-23-19: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Must meet minimum requirements of the Minnesota State Building Code.
3-23-20: INSPECTION:
Each operation required to be licensed hereunder shall at all times be held
open for inspection by any duly authorized law enforcement officer, health
officer or building inspector to insure compliance with all provisions of this
Ordinance.
3-23-21: IDENTIFICATION OF EMPLOYEES:
Upon demand by any police officer, any person engaged in providing services in
any licensed premises shall identify himself, giving his true legal name, date
of birth and correct address.
3-23-22: VIOLATIONS:
Every person who commits or attempts to commit, conspires to commit or aids or
abets in the commission of any act constituting a violation of this Ordinance,
whether individually or in connection with one or more other persons or as a
principal agent or accessory, shall be guilty of such offense, and every person
who falsely, fraudulently, forcibly or willfully induces, causes, coerces,
requires, permits, or directs another to violate any of the provisions of this
Ordinance is likewise guilty of such offense.
3-23-23: HOURS:
No customers or patrons shall be allowed to enter or re-enter the licensed
premises after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
daily.
3-23-24: ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   Any person violating a provision of this Chapter, upon conviction, is
punishable by the maximum levels allowed by State law for the commission of a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   Injunction: A person who operates or causes to be operated a business
without a valid licence or otherwise in violation of this Chapter is subject to
a suit for injunction as well as prosecution for criminal violations. (Ord.
091-257, 10-7-91)
FA192   03-24.TXT
CHAPTER 24
LAND FILLING CONTROLS
SECTION:
3-24-1: Purpose And Intent
3-24-2: Definitions
3-24-3: Permit Required
3-24-4: Exemptions From Permit Requirements
3-24-5: Applications For Permits; Procedures, Contents Of Applications
3-24-6: Administrative Approval
3-24-7: Revocation Of Permit
3-24-8: Fees
3-24-9: Security
3-24-10: Standards
3-24-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose of this chapter is to promote the health, safety and welfare of the
community and to establish reasonable uniform limitations, standards,
safeguards and controls for filling land within the city. (Ord. 092-279, 8-3-
1992)
3-24-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases shall have the following meanings
respectively ascribed to them:
FILL OR FILLING: To change the grade of the earth by depositing sand, gravel,
stone or other material on the earth.
TOPSOIL: That portion of the overburden which lies closest to the earth's
surface and supports the growth of vegetation. (Ord. 092-279, 8-3-1992)
3-24-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful for anyone
to fill without having first obtained a written permit from the city. (Ord.
092-279, 8-3-1992)
3-24-4: EXEMPTIONS FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
The following activities do not require a permit under this chapter:
   (A)   Filling a lot in conjunction with building, if a building permit has
been issued.
   (B)   Filling by the federal, state, county, city or other governmental
agencies which is integral to construction or maintenance of roads, highways or
utilities.
   (C)   Filling for agricultural purposes except for filling of wetlands.
   (D)   Filling in accordance with a development contract approved under the
city's subdivision ordinance. If the development contract requires that a
letter of credit or other security be posted, the letter of credit or other
security must be posted before any filling takes place.
   (E)   Filling a garden with topsoil.
   (F)   Filling up to six inches (6") of topsoil for purposes of growing grass
or other vegetables.
   (G)   Filling next to an existing foundation to improve drainage. (Ord. 092-
279, 8-3-1992)
3-24-5: APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS; PROCEDURES, CONTENTS OF APPLICATIONS:
All applications dealing with land in floodplains shall comply with
requirements listed in section
10-5-25 of this code. In addition, an application for a filling permit shall
contain: (Ord. 093-323, 12-6-1993; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
   (A)   The full name, date of birth and address of the applicant and owner of
the land.
   (B)   The correct legal description of the property where the activity is
proposed to occur.
   (C)   A tree survey indicating the location of all trees over six inches
(6") caliper and a plan for protecting and preserving as many trees as is
feasible.
   (D)   The type and quantity of material to be filled.
   (E)   The purpose of filling.
   (F)   The estimated time required to complete filling.
   (G)   Plans for drainage and erosion control, sedimentation and dust
control.
   (H)   The contour of the land prior to filling and the proposed contour
after filling.
   (I)   Existing wetlands as defined by federal and state law. (Ord. 092-279,
8-3-1992)
3-24-6: ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL:
The city engineer shall review the permit application and shall approve the
permit if it is in compliance with this chapter, the city's zoning ordinance,
and other applicable laws, ordinances and regulations. If the building official
denies a permit, the applicant may appeal the decision to the city council by
filing a notice of appeal with the city clerk within ten (10) days after the
city engineer denies the permit. (Ord. 092-279, 8-3-1992)
3-24-7: REVOCATION OF PERMIT:
   (A)   The permit may be revoked for violation of this chapter or any permit
conditions. No permit may be terminated until the city council has held a
public hearing to determine whether the permit shall be terminated, at which
time the operator shall be afforded an opportunity to contest the termination.
The city council may establish certain conditions, which if not complied with,
will result in immediate suspension of operations until the public hearing to
consider termination of the permit can be held.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to fill after a permit has been terminated. (Ord.
092-279, 8-3-1992)
3-24-8: FEES:
A fee schedule shall be determined by resolution of the city council. (Ord.
092-279, 8-3-1992)
3-24-9: SECURITY:
Prior to the issuance of a fill permit, the operator shall furnish the city a
letter of credit or cash escrow (security) to guarantee compliance with this
chapter and the conditions of approval of the permit. The amount of the
security shall be set by the city engineer in an amount necessary to reimburse
the city for costs it may incur if the city is required to take remedial action
to bring the filling activity into compliance. (Ord. 092-279, 8-3-1992)
3-24-10: STANDARDS:
The following standards shall be observed in conjunction with filling:
   (A)   The maximum noise level at the perimeter of the site shall be within
the limits set by the Minnesota pollution control agency and the federal
environmental protection agency.
   (B)   Operators shall comply with all applicable city, county, state and
federal regulations for the protection of water quality, including the
Minnesota pollution control agency and federal environmental protection agency
regulations for the protection of water quality.
   (C)   Operators shall use all practical means to reduce the amount of dust,
smoke and fumes caused by the operations.
   (D)   Operators shall comply with the city's erosion control practices.
   (E)   Existing trees and ground cover shall be preserved to the extent
feasible.
   (F)   Solid waste including, but not limited to, construction debris may not
be used as fill material without compliance with Dakota County's solid waste
management ordinance.
   (G)   Promptly after filling has been completed, the disturbed area shall be
surfaced with adequate topsoil to secure and hold ground cover. Self-sustaining
ground cover shall be promptly planted and maintained, weather permitting.
(Ord. 092-279, 8-3-1992)
FA192   3-25.txt
CHAPTER 25
BILLIARD HALLS
(Rep. by Ord. 017-729, 8-21-2017)
FA192   03-26.TXT
CHAPTER 26
PAWNBROKERS AND PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS
SECTION:
3-26-1: Purpose
3-26-2: Definitions
3-26-3: License Required
3-26-4: Application Content
3-26-5: Application Execution
3-26-6: Application Verification
3-26-7: Application Consideration
3-26-8: Renewal Application
3-26-9: Fees
3-26-10: Bond Required
3-26-11: Persons And Locations Ineligible For A License
3-26-12: General License Restrictions
3-26-13: Restricted Transactions
3-26-14: Inspections
3-26-15: Restrictions Regarding License Transfer
3-26-16: Denial, Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-26-17: Penalty
3-26-1: PURPOSE:
The city council finds that the use of services provided by pawnbrokers and
precious metal dealers potentially provides an opportunity for the commission
of crimes and their concealment because such businesses have the ability to
receive and transfer stolen property easily and quickly. The city council also
finds that consumer protection regulation is warranted in transactions
involving pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers. The purpose of this chapter
is to prevent pawn and precious metal businesses from being used as facilities
for the commission of crimes and to assure that such businesses comply with
basic consumer protection standards, thereby protecting the public health,
safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the city.
To help the police department better regulate current and future pawn
businesses, decrease and stabilize costs associated with the regulation of the
pawn industry, and increase identification of criminal activities in the pawn
industry through the timely collection and sharing of pawn transaction
information, this chapter also implements and establishes the required use of
the automated pawn system (APS). (Ord. 003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms when used in this chapter shall have the
following meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
ACCEPTABLE IDENTIFICATION: Acceptable forms of identification are a current
valid Minnesota driver's license, a current valid Minnesota identification
card, or a current valid photo driver's license or identification card issued
by another state or province of Canada.
BILLABLE TRANSACTIONS: Every reportable transaction conducted by a pawnbroker,
except renewals, redemptions, or extensions of existing pawns on items
previously reported and continuously in the licensee's possession is a billable
transaction.
ISSUING AUTHORITY: The city of Farmington.
ITEM CONTAINING PRECIOUS METAL: An item in whole or in part of metal and
containing more than one percent (1%) by weight of silver, gold, or platinum.
LICENSEE: The person, corporation, partnership, or association to whom a
license is issued under this chapter, including any agents or employees of the
person, corporation, partnership, or association.
MINOR: Any natural person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
PAWNBROKER: Any person who loans money on deposit or pledge of personal
property or other valuable thing; who deals in the purchasing of personal
property or other valuable thing on condition of selling that same back again
at a stipulated price; or who loans money secured by chattel mortgage or on
personal property, taking possession of the property or any part thereof so
mortgaged. To the extent that a pawnbroker business includes buying personal
property previously used, rented, or leased, the provisions of this chapter
shall be applicable. Pawnbroker does not include businesses or persons who
engage in transactions in which a used or secondhand item is exchanged for a
new item and the value of the new item exceeds the value of the secondhand
item, or who buy and sell used goods or equipment of a specialized nature such
as exercise or sporting equipment, or children's clothes. A bank, savings and
loan association, or credit union shall not be deemed a pawnbroker for purposes
of this chapter.
PERSON: Any one or more natural persons; a partnership, including a limited
partnership; a corporation, including a foreign, domestic, or nonprofit
corporation; a trust; a political subdivision of the state; or any other
business organization.
PRECIOUS METAL DEALER: Any person engaging in the business of buying secondhand
items containing precious metal, including, but not limited to, jewelry,
watches, eating utensils, candlesticks, and religious and decorative objects.
Persons conducting the following transactions shall not be deemed to be
precious metal dealers:
   (A)   Transactions at occasional "garage" or "yard" sales, or estate sales
or farm auctions held at the decedent's residence, except that precious metal
dealers must comply with the requirements of MSA sections 325F.734 to 325F.742,
for these transactions;
   (B)   Transactions regulated by MSA section 80A;
   (C)   Transactions regulated by the federal commodity futures commission
act;
   (D)   Transactions involving the purchase of precious metal grindings,
filings, slag, sweeps, scraps, or dust from an industrial manufacturer, dental
lab, dentist, or agent thereof;
   (E)   Transactions involving the purchase of photographic film, such as
lithographic and X-ray film, or silver residue or flake recovered in
lithographic and X-ray film processing;
   (F)   Transactions involving coins, bullion, or ingots;
   (G)   Transactions in which the secondhand item containing precious metal is
exchanged for a new item containing precious metal and the value of the new
item exceeds the value of the secondhand item, except that a person who is a
precious metal dealer by engaging in a transaction which is not exempted by
this subsection must comply with the requirements of MSA sections 325F.734 to
325F.742;
   (H)   Transactions between precious metal dealers if both dealers are
licensed under MSA section 325F.733, or if the seller's business is located
outside of the state and the item is shipped from outside the state to a dealer
licensed under MSA section 325F.733;
   (I)   Transactions in which the buyer of the secondhand item containing
precious metal is engaged primarily in the business of buying and selling
antiques, and the items are resold in an unaltered condition except for repair,
and the items are resold at retail, and the buyer paid less than two thousand
five hundred dollars ($2,500.00) for secondhand items containing precious
metals purchased within any period of twelve (12) consecutive months.
PRECIOUS METALS: Silver, gold, or platinum.
REPORTABLE TRANSACTION: Every transaction conducted by a pawnbroker in which
merchandise is received through a pawn, purchase, consignment or trade, or in
which a pawn is renewed, extended, or for which a unique transaction number or
identifier is generated by their point of sale software, is reportable, except:
   (A)   The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used merchandise from a
merchant, manufacturer, or wholesaler having an established permanent place of
business, and the retail sale of said merchandise, provided the pawnbroker must
maintain a record of such purchase or consignment which describes each item,
and must mark each item in a manner which relates it to that transaction
record.
   (B)   Retail and wholesale sales of merchandise originally received by pawn
or purchase, and for which all applicable hold and/or redemption periods have
expired. (Ord. 003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-3: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall exercise, carry on, or be engaged in the trade or business of
pawnbroker or precious metal dealer within the city unless such person is
currently licensed under this chapter. (Ord. 003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-4: APPLICATION CONTENT:
   (A)   Contents: In addition to any information that may be required by the
county pursuant to MSA section 471.924, every application for a license under
this chapter shall be made on a form supplied by the city and shall contain the
following information:
      1.   If the applicant is a natural person:
(a) The name, place, and date of birth, street resident address, and telephone
number of the applicant;
(b) Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or a resident
alien;
(c) Whether the applicant has ever used or has been known by a name other than
the applicant's name, and if so, the name or names used and information
concerning dates and places where used;
(d) The name of the business if it is to be conducted under a designation,
name, or style other than the name of the applicant and a certified copy of the
certificate as required by MSA section 333.01;
(e) The street addresses at which the applicant has lived during the preceding
five (5) years;
(f) The type, name, and location of every business or occupation in which the
applicant has been engaged during the preceding five (5) years and the name(s)
and address(es) of the applicant's employer(s) and partner(s), if any, for the
preceding five (5) years;
(g) Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of a felony, crime, or
violation of any ordinance other than a traffic ordinance. If so, the applicant
must furnish information as to the time, place, and offense of all such
convictions;
(h) The physical description of the applicant;
(i) The applicant's current personal financial statement and true copies of the
applicant's federal and state tax returns for the two (2) years prior to
application;
(j) If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the manager(s)
or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information concerning
each of them required in subsections (A)1(a) through (A)1(h) of this section.
      2.   If the applicant is a partnership:
(a) The name(s) and address(es) of all general and limited partners and all
information concerning each general partner required in subsection (A)1 of this
section;
(b) The name(s) of managing partner(s) and the interest of each partner in the
pawnbroker or precious metal business;
(c) A true copy of the partnership agreement shall be submitted with the
application. If the partnership is required to file a certificate as to a trade
name pursuant to MSA section 333.01, a certified copy of such certificate shall
be attached to the application;
(d) A true copy of the federal and state tax returns for partnership for the
two (2) years prior to application;
(e) If the applicant does not manage the business, the name of the manager(s)
or other person(s) in charge of the business and all information concerning
each of them required in subsections (A)1(a) through (A)1(h) of this section.
      3.   If the applicant is a corporation or other organization:
(a) The name of the corporation or business form, and if incorporated, the
state of incorporation;
(b) A true copy of the certificate of incorporation, articles of incorporation,
or association agreement, and bylaws shall be attached to the application. If
the applicant is a foreign corporation, a certificate of authority as required
by MSA section 303.06, shall be attached;
(c) The name of the manager(s), proprietor(s), or other agent(s) in charge of
the business and all information concerning each manager, proprietor, or agent
required in subsections (A)1(a) through (A)1(h) of this section;
(d) A list of all persons who control or own an interest in excess of five
percent (5%) in such organization or business form or who are officers of the
corporation or business form and all information concerning said persons
required in subsection (A)1 of this section.
      4.   For all applicants:
(a) Whether the applicant holds a current pawnbroker, precious metal dealer or
secondhand goods dealer license from any other governmental unit;
(b) Whether the applicant has previously been denied or had revoked or
suspended, a pawnbroker, precious metal dealer, or secondhand dealer license
from this or any other governmental unit;
(c) The names, street resident addresses, business addresses and telephone
numbers of three (3) individuals who are of good moral character and who are
not related to the applicant or not holding any ownership in the premises or
business, who may be referred to as to the applicant's and/or manager's
character;
(d) The location of the business premises;
(e) The legal description of the premises to be licensed;
(f) The location at which the applicant's business records are maintained;
(g) If the applicant does not own the licensed premises, a true and complete
copy of the executed lease;
(h) Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due and
payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid, the
years and amounts that are unpaid;
(i) Whenever the application is for premises either planned or under
construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application shall be
accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed
premises to be licensed. If the plans or design are on file with the city
building/inspections department, no plans need be submitted to the issuing
authority;
(j) Such other information as the city council or issuing authority may
require.
   (B)   Manager/New Manager: When a licensee places a manager in charge of a
business, or if the named manager(s) in charge of a licensed business changes,
the dealer must complete and submit the appropriate application within fourteen
(14) days. The manager shall be subject to the investigation required by this
section, and to payment of the investigation fee required by this chapter,
which shall be paid in advance.
The designation of a new manager shall not cause the license to become invalid
before a decision is rendered, provided proper notice and application are made
by the applicant. A proposed new manager shall be referred to as the interim
manager. In the event an interim manager is rejected, the licensee shall
designate another interim manager and make the required application within
fifteen (15) days of the decision. If a proposed manager is rejected, the
decision may be appealed to the city council by filing a written notice of
appeal with the city clerk within ten (10) days after being notified of the
rejection. (Ord. 003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-5: APPLICATION EXECUTION:
All applications for a license under this chapter shall be signed and sworn to
under oath or affirmation by applicant. If the application is that of a natural
person, it shall be signed and sworn to by such person; if that of a
corporation, by an officer thereof; if that of a partnership, by one of the
general partners; and if that of an unincorporated association, by the manager
or managing officer thereof.
Any falsification on a license application shall result in the denial of a
license. (Ord. 003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-6: APPLICATION VERIFICATION:
All applications shall be referred to the police department for verification
and investigation of the facts set forth in the application. Within sixty (60)
days after receipt of a complete application, the police department shall make
a written report and recommendation to the city council as to issuance or
nonissuance of the license. The city council may order and conduct such
additional investigation as it deems necessary. If additional investigation is
necessary, the applicant shall pay the city the cost of the additional
investigation. The license shall not be issued until any additional
investigation costs are paid. (Ord. 003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-7: APPLICATION CONSIDERATION:
   (A)   The city council shall conduct a hearing on the license application
within thirty (30) days following receipt of the police department's report and
recommendation regarding the application. At least ten (10) days in advance of
the city council hearing on an application, the issuing authority shall cause
notice of the hearing to be published in the official newspaper of the city,
setting forth the day, time, and place of the hearing; the name of the
applicant; the premises where the business is to be conducted; and the type of
license which is sought. The hearing shall also be preceded by ten (10) days'
mailed notice to all owners of property located within five hundred feet (500')
of the boundaries of the property where the business is to be conducted. At the
hearing, opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or against
the granting of the license. Additional hearings on the application may be held
if the city council deems additional hearings necessary. After the hearing or
hearings on the application, the city council may, in its discretion, grant or
deny the application within thirty (30) days after the close of the hearing.
   (B)   If an application is granted for a location where a building is under
construction or not ready for occupancy, the license shall not be delivered to
the licensee until a certificate of occupancy has been issued for the licensed
premises. (Ord. 003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-8: RENEWAL APPLICATION:
   (A)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall be effective for one year
from the date of approval by the city council. An application for the renewal
of an existing license shall be made prior to the expiration date of the
license and shall be made in such form as the issuing authority requires. If,
in the judgment of the city council, good and sufficient cause is shown by the
applicant for the applicant's failure to submit a renewal application before
the expiration of the existing license, the city council may, if the other
provisions of this chapter are complied with, grant the renewal application.
   (B)   A license under this chapter may not be renewed:
      1.   If the city council determines that the licensee has failed to
comply with the provisions of this chapter in preceding license years;
      2.   If the licensee or, if the licensee does not manage the
establishment, the manager of the licensed premises is not a resident of
Minnesota on the date the renewal takes effect;
      3.   If in the case of a partnership, the managing partner or other
person who manages the establishment is not a resident of Minnesota on the date
the renewal takes effect;
      4.   If in the case of a corporation, or other organization, the manager,
a proprietor, or agent in charge of the establishment is not a resident of
Minnesota on the date the renewal takes effect;
      5.   The time for establishing residence in Minnesota may for good cause
be extended by the city council. (Ord. 003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-9: FEES:
   (A)   Investigation Fee: An applicant for any license under this chapter
shall pay the city in advance at the time an original application is submitted,
a nonrefundable investigation fee at a rate set by city council resolution to
cover the costs involved in verifying the license application and to cover the
expense of any investigation needed to assure compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   License Fee:
      1.   The annual license fee shall be set by city council resolution. The
license fee shall be paid annually, to be determined from the date of issuance
of the license.
      2.   The annual license fee shall be paid in full before the license is
effective.
   (C)   Billable Transaction Fees:
      1.   Licensees shall pay a monthly transaction fee on all billable
transactions. Such fee shall be due and payable within thirty (30) days.
Failure to timely pay the billable transaction fee shall constitute a violation
of this chapter.
      2.   The billable transaction fee shall reflect the cost of processing
transactions and other related regulatory expenses as determined and set by
city council resolution. Licensees shall be notified in writing thirty (30)
days before any adjustment is implemented. (Ord. 003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-10: BOND REQUIRED:
At the time of filing an application for a license, the applicant shall file a
bond in the amount of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) with the city. The
bond, with a duly licensed surety company as surety thereon, must be approved
as to form by the city attorney. The bond must be conditioned on the licensee
observing all ordinances of the city and all laws relating to the business of
pawnbroker or precious metal dealer, and the licensee accounting for and
delivering to any person legally entitled thereto any articles which may have
come into the possession of the licensee as pawnbroker or precious metal
dealer, or in lieu thereof such licensee paying the person or persons the
reasonable value thereof. The bond shall contain a provision that it may not be
canceled without thirty (30) days' advance written notice to the licensing
authority. (Ord. 003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-11: PERSONS AND LOCATIONS INELIGIBLE FOR A LICENSE:
   (A)   No license under this chapter shall be issued to an applicant who is a
natural person if such applicant, a partnership if such applicant has any
general partner or managing partner, a corporation or other organization if
such applicant has any manager, proprietor or agent in charge of the business
to be licensed, if the applicant:
      1.   Is a minor at the time the application is filed; or
      2.   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by MSA section 364.03, subdivision 2, and has not shown
competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform
the duties of a pawnbroker or precious metal dealer as prescribed by MSA
section 364.03, subdivision 3.
   (B)   The following locations shall be ineligible for a license under this
chapter:
      1.   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any property
on which taxes, assessments, or other financial claims of the state, county,
school district, or city are due, delinquent, or unpaid. In the event a suit
has been commenced under MSA sections 278.01 to 278.03, questioning the amount
or validity of taxes, the city council may on application waive strict
compliance with this provision; no waiver may be granted, however, for taxes or
any portion thereof which remain unpaid for a period exceeding one year after
becoming due.
      2.   No license shall be granted or renewed if the property on which the
business is to be conducted is owned by a person who is ineligible for a
license under any of the requirements in subsection (A) of this section, except
that a property owner who is a minor or who has been convicted of a crime,
other than a crime involving theft, shall not make the premises ineligible
under this subsection (B). (Ord. 003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-12: GENERAL LICENSE RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   Records Required: At the time of any reportable transaction other than
renewals, extensions or redemptions, every licensee must immediately record in
English the following information by using ink or other indelible medium on
forms or in a computerized record approved by the police department:
      1.   Complete And Accurate Description: A complete and accurate
description of each item including, but not limited to, any trademark,
identification number, serial number, model number, brand name, or other
identifying mark on such an item.
      2.   Purchase Price: The purchase price, amount of money loaned upon, or
pledged therefor.
      3.   Rates, Fees, And Charges: The maturity date of the transaction and
the amount due, including monthly and annual interest rates and all pawn fees
and charges.
      4.   Numeric Transaction Identifiers: Date, time and place the item of
property was received by the licensee, and the unique alpha and/or numeric
transaction identifier that distinguishes it from all other transactions in the
licensee's records. Transaction identifiers must be consecutively numbered.
      5.   Description Of Person: Full name, current residence address, current
residence telephone number, date of birth and accurate description of the
person from whom the item of the property was received, including: sex, height,
weight, race, color of eyes and color of hair.
      6.   Identification Number: The identification number and state of issue
from any of the following forms of picture identification of the seller:
(a) Current valid Minnesota driver's license;
(b) Current valid Minnesota identification card;
(c) Current valid photo identification card issued by another state or a
province of Canada.
      7.   Signature: The signature of the person identified in the
transaction.
      8.   Color Photograph Or Color Video Recording: The licensee must also
take a color photograph or color video recording of:
(a) Each customer involved in a billable transaction.
(b) Every item pawned or sold that does not have a unique serial or
identification number permanently engraved or affixed.
If a photograph is taken, it must be at least two inches (2") in length by two
inches (2") in width and must be maintained in such a manner that the
photograph can be readily matched and correlated with all other records of the
transaction to which they relate. Such photographs must be available to the
chief of police, or the chief's designee, upon request. The major portion of
the photograph must include an identifiable front facial close up of the person
who pawned or sold the item. Items photographed must be accurately depicted.
The licensee must inform the person that he or she is being photographed by
displaying a sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous place in the premises. If
a video photograph is taken, the video camera must zoom in on the person
pawning or selling the item so as to include an identifiable close up of that
person's face. Items photographed by video must be accurately depicted. Video
photographs must be electronically referenced by time and date so they can be
readily matched and correlated with all other records of the transaction to
which they relate. The licensee must inform the person that he or she is being
videotaped orally and by displaying a sign of sufficient size in a conspicuous
place on the premises. The licensee must keep the exposed videotape for three
(3) months, and furnish it to the police department upon request.
      9.   Identifiable Thumbprint: The licensee must take an identifiable
thumbprint of each customer involved in a billable transaction and must
identify which thumb was printed.
      10.   Digitized Photographs: Effective sixty (60) days from the date of
notification by the police department licensees must fulfill the color
photograph requirements in subsection (A)8 of this section by submitting them
as digital images, in a format specified by the issuing authority,
electronically cross referenced to the reportable transaction they are
associated with. Notwithstanding the digital images may be captured from
required video recordings, this provision does not alter or amend the
requirements in subsection (A)8 of this section.
      11.   Renewals, Extensions And Redemptions: For renewals, extensions and
redemptions, the licensee shall provide the original transaction identifier,
the date of the current transaction, and the type of transaction.
   (B)   Inspection Of Records: The pawnbroker or precious metal dealer shall
make available the information required in subsection (A) of this section at
all reasonable times for inspection by the Farmington police department or
issuing authority. Data entries shall be retained for at least three (3) years
from the date of transaction. Entries of required digital images shall be
retained a minimum of one hundred twenty (120) days.
   (C)   Disposition Of Articles:
      1.   When an article of pawned or pledged property is redeemed from a
licensee, the records shall contain an account of such redemption with the
date, interest charges accrued, and the total amount for which the article was
redeemed.
      2.   When an article of purchased or forfeited property is sold or
disposed of by a licensee and the licensee receives one hundred dollars
($100.00) or more in the payment thereof, the records shall contain an account
of such sale with the date, the amount for which the article was sold, and the
full name, current address, and telephone number of the person to whom sold.
   (D)   Daily Reports To Police:
      1.   Report Transactions Daily: Licensees must submit every reportable
transaction to the police department daily in the following manner:
(a) Licensees must provide to the police department all information required in
subsections (A)1 through (A)6 of this section and other required information,
by transferring it from their computer to the automated pawn system via modem.
All required records must be transmitted completely and accurately after the
close of business each day in accordance with standards and procedures
established by the issuing authority using procedures that address security
concerns of the licensees and the issuing authority. The licensee must display
a sign of sufficient size, in a conspicuous place in the premises, which
informs all patrons that all transactions are reported to the police department
daily.
      2.   Billable Transaction Fees: Licensees will be charged for each
billable transaction reported to the police department.
(a) If a licensee is unable to successfully transfer the required reports by
modem, the licensee must provide the police department printed copies of all
reportable transactions along with the video tape(s) for that date, by twelve
o'clock (12:00) noon the next business day;
(b) If the problem is determined to be in the licensee's system and is not
corrected by the close of the first business day following the failure, the
licensee must provide the required reports as detailed in subsection (D)2(a) of
this section, and must be charged a fifty dollar ($50.00) reporting failure
penalty, daily, until the error is corrected; or
(c) If the problem is determined to be outside the licensee's system, the
licensee must provide the required reports in subsection (D)2(a) of this
section, and resubmit all such transactions via modem when the error is
corrected.
(d) If a licensee is unable to capture, digitize or transmit the photographs
required in subsection (A)8 of this section, the licensee must immediately take
all required photographs with a still camera, cross reference the photographs
to the correct transaction, and make the pictures available to the police
department upon request.
(e) Regardless of the cause or origin of the technical problems that prevented
the licensee from uploading their reportable transactions, upon correction of
the problem, the licensee shall upload every reportable transaction from every
business day the problem had existed.
(f) Subsections (D)2(a) through (D)2(c) of this section notwithstanding, the
police department may, upon presentation of extenuating circumstances, delay
the implementation of the daily reporting penalty.
   (E)   Receipt Required: Every licensee must provide a receipt to the party
identified in every reportable transaction and must maintain a duplicate of
that receipt for three (3) years. The receipt must include at least the
following information:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the licensed business.
      2.   The date and time the item was received by the licensee.
      3.   Whether the item was pawned or sold, or the nature of the
transaction.
      4.   An accurate description of each item received including, but not
limited to, any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name, or other identifying mark on such an item.
      5.   The signature or unique identifier of the licensee or employee that
conducted the transaction.
      6.   The amount advanced or paid.
      7.   The monthly and annual interest rates, including all pawn fees and
charges.
      8.   The last regular day of business by which the item must be redeemed
by the pledger without risk that the item will be sold, and the amount
necessary to redeem the pawned item on that date.
      9.   The full name, current residence address, current residence
telephone number, and date of birth of the pledger or seller.
      10.   The identification number and state of issue from an acceptable
form of a photo identification.
(a) Current valid Minnesota driver's license;
(b) Current valid Minnesota identification card;
(c) Current valid photo driver's license or identification card issued by
another state or a province of Canada.
      11.   Description of the pledger or seller including sex, approximate
height, weight, race, color of eyes and color of hair.
      12.   The signature of the pledger or seller.
      13.   All printed statements as required by MSA 325J.04, subdivision 2,
or any other applicable statutes.
   (F)   Redemption Period: Any person pledging, pawning or depositing an item
for security must have a minimum of one hundred twenty (120) days from the date
of that transaction to redeem the item before it may be forfeited and sold.
During the one hundred twenty (120) day holding period, items may not be
removed from the licensed location except as provided in subsection
3-26-14(A) of this chapter. Licensees are prohibited from redeeming any item to
anyone other than the person to whom the receipt was issued, or to any person
identified in a written and notarized authorization to redeem the property
identified in the receipt, or to a person identified in writing by the pledger
at the time of the initial transaction and signed by the pledger, or with
approval of the police license inspector. Written authorization for release of
property to persons other than original pledger must be maintained along with
original transaction record in accordance with subsection (A)10 of this
section.
   (G)   Holding Period: Any item purchased or accepted in trade by a licensee
must not be sold or otherwise transferred for thirty (30) days from the date of
the transaction. An individual may redeem an item seventy two (72) hours after
the item was received on deposit, excluding Sundays and legal holidays.
   (H)   Police Order To Hold Property:
      1.   Investigative Hold: Whenever a law enforcement official from any
agency notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or
removed from the premises. The investigative hold shall be confirmed in writing
by the originating agency within seventy two (72) hours and will remain in
effect for fifteen (15) days from the date of initial notification, or until
the investigative order is canceled, or until an order to hold/confiscate is
issued, pursuant to subsection (H)2 of this section, whichever comes first.
      2.   Order To Hold: Whenever the chief of police, or the chief's
designee, notifies a licensee not to sell an item, the item must not be sold or
removed from the licensed premises until authorized to be released by the chief
or the chief's designee. The order to hold shall expire ninety (90) days from
the date it is placed unless the chief of police or the chief's designee
determines the hold is still necessary and notifies the licensee in writing.
      3.   Order To Confiscate: If an item is identified as stolen or evidence
in a criminal case, the chief or chief's designee may:
(a) Physically confiscate and remove it from the shop, pursuant to a written
order from the chief or the chief's designee, or
(b) Place the item on hold or extend the hold as provided in subsection (H)2 of
this section, and leave it in the shop.
When an item is confiscated, the person doing so shall provide identification
upon request of the licensee, and shall provide the licensee the name and phone
number of the confiscating agency and investigator, and the case number related
to the confiscation.
When an order to hold/confiscate is no longer necessary, the chief of police,
or chief's designee shall so notify the licensee.
   (I)   Label Required: Licensees must attach a label to every item at the
time it is pawned, purchased or received in inventory from any reportable
transaction. Permanently recorded on this label must be the number or name that
identifies the transaction in the shop's records, the transaction date, the
name of the item and the description or the model and serial number of the item
as reported to the police department, whichever is applicable, and the date the
item is out of pawn or can be sold, if applicable. Labels shall not be reused.
   (J)   License Display: A license issued under this chapter must be posted in
a conspicuous place in the premises for which it is used. The license issued is
only effective for the compact and contiguous space specified in the approved
license application.
   (K)   Responsibility Of Licensee: A licensee under this chapter shall be
responsible for the conduct of the business being operated and shall maintain
conditions of order. The conduct of agents or employees of a licensee, engaged
in performance of duties for the licensee, shall be deemed the conduct of the
licensee.
   (L)   Gambling: No licensee under this chapter may keep, possess, or
operate, or permit the keeping, possession, or operation on the licensed
premises of dice, slot machines, roulette wheels, punchboards, blackjack
tables, or pinball machines which return coins or slugs, chips, or tokens of
any kind, which are redeemable in merchandise or cash. No gambling equipment
authorized under MSA chapter 349 may be kept or operated and no raffles may be
conducted on the licensed premises and/or adjoining rooms. The purchase of
lottery tickets may take place on the licensed premises as authorized by the
director of the lottery pursuant to MSA chapter 349A.
   (M)   Penalty For Property Owner: It is unlawful for any person who owns or
controls real property to knowingly permit it to be used for pawn brokering or
dealing in precious metals without a license.
   (N)   Premises: All property deposited, left, pledged, pawned, or held for
sale must be stored in an enclosed facility and may not be stored outside of
the premises. The city may, however, permit the licensee to designate one off
premises locked and secured facility in which the licensee may store only cars,
boats, and other motorized vehicles. The licensee shall permit immediate
inspection of the facility at any time during business hours by the city. All
provisions in this section regarding record keeping and reporting shall apply
to oversized items. All property shall be stored in compliance with zoning and/
or fire regulations and in an orderly manner. The premises shall also be
equipped with an operational security alarm.
   (O)   Required Signage: All licensees shall by adequate signage and separate
written notice inform persons seeking to pawn, pledge, sell, leave, or deposit
articles of property with the licensee of the foregoing requirements:
      1.   For the purpose of this subsection (O), "adequate signage" shall be
deemed to mean at least one sign of not less than four (4) square feet in
surface area, comprised of lettering of not less than three-quarters (3/4) of
an inch in height, posted in a conspicuous place on the licensed premises and
stating substantially the following:
TO PAWN OR SELL PROPERTY:
 
YOU MUST BE AT LEAST 18 YEARS OF AGE.
 
YOU MUST BE THE TRUE OWNER OF THE PROPERTY.
 
THE PROPERTY MUST BE FREE OF ALL CLAIMS AND LIENS.
 
YOU MUST PRESENT VALID PHOTO IDENTIFICATION.
 
YOU MUST PROVIDE A THUMB PRINT FOR IDENTIFICATION.
 
VIOLATION OF ANY OF THESE REQUIREMENTS IS A CRIME.
      2.   For the purpose of this subsection (O), "separate written notice"
shall be deemed to mean either the receipt, as required in subsection (E) of
this section, or a printed form, incorporating a statement to the effect that
the person pawning, pledging, selling, leaving, or depositing the article is at
least eighteen (18) years of age; is the true owner of the article; and that
the article is free of all claims and liens; which is acknowledged by way of
signature of the person pawning, pledging, selling, leaving, or depositing the
article. (Ord. 003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-13: RESTRICTED TRANSACTIONS:
   (A)   Hours And Days Of Operation: No pawnbroker or precious metal dealer
shall keep the pawnbroker or precious metal dealer business open for the
transaction of business on any day of the week before seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.
or after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. No pawnbroker or precious metal dealer shall
be open for the transaction of business on Sundays.
   (B)   Minors: No person under the age of eighteen (18) years may pawn or
sell or attempt to pawn or sell goods with any licensee, nor may any licensee
receive any goods from a person under the age of eighteen (18) years.
   (C)   Incompetent Persons: A pawnbroker or precious metal dealer shall not
purchase or receive personal property on deposit or pledge from any incompetent
person or intoxicated person.
   (D)   Prohibited Goods: No licensee under this chapter shall accept any item
of property which contains an altered or obliterated serial number or
"operation identification" number or any item of property whose serial number
has been removed.
   (E)   Security Interest: No licensee nor any agent or employee of a licensee
shall purchase, accept, or receive any article of property knowing, or having
reason to know, that the article of property is encumbered by a security
interest. For the purpose of this section, "security interest" means an
interest in property which secures payment or other performance of an
obligation.
   (F)   True Owner:
      1.   No licensee nor any agent or employee of a licensee shall purchase,
accept, or receive any article of property, from any person, knowing, or having
reason to know, that said person is not the true and correct owner of the
property.
      2.   No person may pawn, pledge, sell, leave, or deposit any article of
property not their own; nor shall any person pawn, pledge, sell, leave, or
deposit the property of another, whether with permission or without; nor shall
any person pawn, pledge, sell, leave, or deposit any article of property in
which another has a security interest with any licensee.
   (G)   Proper Identification:
      1.   No licensee nor any agent or employee of a licensee shall purchase,
accept, or receive any article of property, from any person, unless the seller
presents photo identification in the form of a valid driver's license, a valid
state of Minnesota identification card, or current valid photo driver's license
or identification card issued by the state or province of residency of the
person from whom the item was received.
      2.   No person may pawn, pledge, sell, leave or deposit any article of
property with any licensee without first having presented an acceptable form of
identification.
   (H)   Payment By Check: Payment of more than two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) by a licensee for any article deposited, left, purchased, pledged or
pawned shall be made only by a check, draft, or other negotiable or
nonnegotiable instrument which is drawn against funds held by a financial
institution. This policy must be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises.
   (I)   Restrictions On Sale: Pawnbrokers and precious metal dealers shall
suspend for one year, any business transaction with any person who has sold
and/or forfeited on six (6) previous occasions articles for which the person
received twenty five dollars ($25.00) or more per transaction within a single
six (6) month period.
   (J)   False Identification: No person seeking to pawn, pledge, sell,
consign, leave, or deposit any article of property with any licensee shall give
a false or fictitious name; nor give a false date of birth; nor give a false or
out of date address of residence or telephone number; nor present a false or
altered identification, or the identification of another; to any licensee.
   (K)   General Restrictions For Pawnbrokers: No pawnbroker licensed under
this chapter shall:
      1.   Lend money on a pledge at a rate of interest above that allowed by
law;
      2.   Knowingly possess stolen goods;
      3.   Sell pledged goods before the time to redeem has expired;
      4.   Refuse to disclose to the city, after having sold pledged goods, the
name of the purchaser or the price for which the item sold.
   (L)   General Restrictions For Precious Metal Dealers: No precious metal
dealer licensed under this chapter shall knowingly possess stolen goods. (Ord.
003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-14: INSPECTIONS:
   (A)   Premises: Any licensee shall, at all times during the term of the
license, allow the police department to enter the premises, where the licensee
is carrying on business, including all off site storage facilities as
authorized in subsection
3-26-12(N) of this chapter, during normal business hours, except in an
emergency, for the purpose of inspecting such premises and inspecting the
articles and records therein to locate goods suspected or alleged to have been
stolen and to verify compliance with this chapter or other applicable laws. No
licensee shall conceal any article in his possession from the police
department.
   (B)   Inspection By Police Or Claimed Owner: All articles of property coming
into the possession of any licensee shall be open to inspection and right of
examination of any police officer or any person claiming to have been the owner
thereof or claiming to have had an interest therein when such person is
accompanied by a police officer. (Ord. 003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-15: RESTRICTIONS REGARDING LICENSE TRANSFER:
Each license under this chapter shall be issued to the applicant only and shall
not be transferable to any other person. No licensee shall loan, sell, give, or
assign a license to another person. (Ord. 003-486, 3-3-2003)
3-26-16: DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
   (A)   The city council may deny, suspend or revoke a license issued under
this chapter upon one or more of the following reasons:
      1.   The proposed use does not comply with the city's zoning ordinance;
      2.   The proposed use does not comply with any health, building, building
maintenance or other applicable provisions of this code or state or federal
law;
      3.   The applicant or licensee has failed to comply with one or more
provisions of this chapter;
      4.   Fraud, misrepresentation or bribery in securing or renewing a
license;
      5.   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made in the application
and investigation for, or in the course of, the applicant's business;
      6.   The applicant is not a citizen of the United States or resident
alien, or upon whom it is impractical or impossible to conduct a background or
financial investigation due to the unavailability of information;
      7.   Violation within the preceding five (5) years, of any law relating
to theft, damage or trespass to property, sale of a controlled substance, or
operation of a business;
      8.   The owner of the premises licensed or to be licensed would not
qualify for a license under the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   A revocation or suspension by the city council shall be preceded by
written notice to the licensee and a public hearing. The written notice shall
give at least ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of the hearing and
shall state the nature of the charges against the pawnbroker. The notice may be
served upon the pawnbroker personally or by United States mail addressed to the
most recent address of the business in the license application. (Ord. 003-486,
3-3-2003)
3-26-17: PENALTY:
Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 003-
486, 3-3-2003)
CHAPTER 27
CANNABIS AND HEMP RETAIL REGISTRATION
SECTION:
3-27-1:    Purpose And Authority
3-27-2:    Definitions
3-27-3:    Retail Registration Required
3-27-4:    Registration Restrictions
3-27-5:    Registration Application
3-27-6:    Fees
3-27-7:    Registration Period
3-27-8:    Compliance Checks
3-27-9:    Temporary Cannabis Events
3-27-10: Violations And Penalties
3-27-11: Denial, Revocation, Or Suspension
3-27-12: Enforcement
3-27-13: Performance Standards
3-27-14: Local Government As A Cannabis Retailer
3-27-15: Use In Public Spaces Or Places Of Public Accommodation
3-27-16: Signage
3-27-1:   PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY:
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of
Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 342, authorizing the City Council to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare of Farmington residents by regulating
cannabis and lower-potency hemp edible businesses within the legal boundaries
of the city.
   (B)   The City Council finds and concludes that the provisions are
appropriate, lawful regulations for the City of Farmington, and that they are
in the public interest and for the public good.
   (C)   The City Council is authorized by:
      1.   Minnesota Statutes, Section 342.13(c) to adopt reasonable
restrictions of the time, place, and manner of the operation of a cannabis
business, provided that such restrictions to not prohibit the establishment or
operation of cannabis businesses.
      2.   Minnesota Statutes, Section 342.22, to adopt local registration and
enforcement requirements of State-licensed cannabis retail businesses and
lower-potency hemp edible retail businesses.
      3.   Minnesota Statutes, Section 412.221, Subdivision 32, to provide for
the promotion of health, safety, order, convenience, and general welfare.
   (D)   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this chapter is
deemed unconstitutional or invalid by a court of law, the findings shall not
invalidate or affect the enforceability of any other provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2025-004, 7-21-2025)
3-27-2:   DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   The definitions set forth in Minnesota Statutes, Section 342.01, are
hereby adopted and incorporated into this chapter.
   (B)   “Public space” or “place of public accommodation” is defined as, but
not limited to:
      1.   Arenas, auditoriums, bowling alleys, bingo halls, commercial
establishments including licensed retail tobacco establishments, pool halls,
public conveyances, restaurants, and establishments licensed to sell alcoholic
beverages under Minnesota Statutes, Section 340A, and their patios and decks.
      2.   Publicly owned property and outdoor and indoor areas of a public
recreation center or public park, trail, street or sidewalk including, but not
limited to, a public playground, swimming pool or other recreational area, and
gymnasiums. This specifically includes, but is not limited to, the Rambling
River Center, Schmitz-Maki Arena and City park properties.
      3.   Hospitals, nursing homes, offices and other commercial
establishments, retail stores, and common areas of rental apartment buildings.
      4.   Public transportation including buses, enclosed bus and transit
stops, taxis, vans, limousines, buses, and other for-hire vehicles used to
transport the public during hours of operation.
      5.   Educational institutions including all facilities, whether owned,
rented, or leased, and all vehicles that a school owns, leases, rents,
contracts for, or controls.
      6.   Public school: as defined by Minnesota Statutes, Section 120A.20,
any schools supported in whole or in part by State funds are public schools.
      7.   Charter school: any school licensed by the Minnesota Department of
Education as a charter school.
      8.   Nonpublic schools: any nonpublic school, person, or other
institution that is accredited by an accrediting agency is required to meet the
reporting requirements under Minnesota Statutes, Section 120A.24, or recognized
by the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of Education.
      9.   Public spaces as defined by Zoning Code 10-2-1. (Ord. 2025-004, 7-
21-2025)
3-27-3:   RETAIL REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
   (A)   Minnesota Statutes, Section 342.22, specifies that the following hemp
or cannabis businesses are required to register with the City:
      1.   Cannabis Retailers
      2.   Microbusinesses
      3.   Mezzobusinesses
      4.   Medical Cannabis Combination Businesses
      5.   Lower-Potency Hemp Edible Retailers
   (B)   The issuance of a registration shall be considered a privilege and not
an absolute right of the applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an
automatic renewal of the registration. (Ord. 2025-004, 7-21-2025)
3-27-4:   REGISTRATION RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   All registered hemp and cannabis retail businesses must comply with
State Building Code and all applications sections of Farmington City Code Title
10 Zoning.
   (B)   Registered businesses will operate so that no odors, whether the smell
of cannabis or other odors related to the operation of the business, can be
detected by a person with a normal sense of smell at the exterior of the
business property line.
   (C)   No hemp or cannabis retail business shall occupy a residential
dwelling unit.
   (D)   No individual or entity may operate a hemp or cannabis retail business
without:
      1.   Registering with the City of Farmington.
      2.   Having a current, active, and valid license issued by the Office of
Cannabis Management.
   (E)   All registered premises shall be open to inspections by the City or
other authorized City officials during regular business hours to check
compliance with State law and City Code.
   (F)   Every retail registration holder is responsible for conduct on the
registered premises, and any sale of cannabis, hemp, or products containing
cannabis or hemp, by an employee is the act of the registration holder for the
purposes of all provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   No registration may be transferred to another person or location.
      1.   A State-licensed cannabis retail business already registered with
the City but is seeking to move to a new location shall be required to submit a
new registration application. Such application shall be treated as a renewal of
the registration. (Ord. 2025-004, 7-21-2025)
3-27-5:   REGISTRATION APPLICATION:
   (A)   The City shall issue a retail registration to a State-licensed retail
business that adheres to the requirements of Minnesota Statutes, Section 342.22
   (B)   Applications for the renewal of an existing registration shall be made
at least 60 days prior to the date of the expiration of the registration.
   (C)   All new and renewal registrations will be administratively considered
and issued by the City Clerk or designee. Registration applications will be
processed on a first-come first-served basis, based on the City receiving a
complete application and payment of fees.
   (D)   Cap on Registrations: The City shall limit the number of cannabis
retail businesses to one (1) registration for every 12,500 residents within the
legal limits of Farmington.
   (E)   Basis for Denial: The City shall deny a registration or renewal for
any cannabis retailer or lower potency hemp retailer if any of the following
conditions are true:
      1.   The applicant has not submitted a complete registration.
      2.   The applicant does not comply with the requirements of this chapter.
      3.   The applicant does not comply with applicable zoning and land use
regulations.
      4.   If applicable, the maximum number of registrations, pursuant to
Section
3-27-5 (D) have been issued by the City.
      5.   The applicant does not have a valid license from the Office of
Cannabis Management.
      6.   The applicant is not current on all property taxes and assessments
at the location where the retail establishment is located.
   (F)   Registration is not transferable to another person, entity, or
location. A State-licensed cannabis retail business shall be required to submit
a new application for registration if it seeks to move to a new location still
within the legal boundaries of Farmington.
   (G)   An application for a new or renewal retail registration shall be made
on a form provided by the City. The form shall include, but is not limited to:
      1.   Full name of the property owner and applicant.
      2.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant.
      3.   Exact location of the place in which the applicant proposes to carry
on the business which a retail registration is sought and the full name of and
approval from the property owner.
      4.   If applicable, the dates and locations the applicant has previously
been engaged in the business of selling or manufacturing cannabis products in
Dakota County.
      5.   Certification that the applicant complies with the requirements of
Farmington City Code established pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Section
342.13.
      6.   The applicant must provide:
         (a)   A copy of a valid State license or written notice of Office of
Cannabis Management approval;
         (b)   Verification that the applicant is current on all applicable
property taxes and assessments at the location where the retail establishment
is located; and
         (c)   A copy of the documentation showing compliance with State Fire
and Building Codes, if applicable to the business.
   (H)   Payment of registration or renewal fees, as established in the City’s
Fee Schedule, shall be made at time of application.
   (I)   Liability Insurance.
      1.   No retail registration may be issued, maintained, or renewed unless
the applicant demonstrates proof of financial responsibility with regard to
liability imposed by Minnesota Statutes, Section 342.81.
      2.   At a minimum, the applicant must show one of the following:
         (a)   A certificate that there is in effect for the license period an
insurance policy or pool providing at least the following:
            (1)   $250,000 of coverage because of bodily injury to any one
person in any one occurrence;
            (2)   $500,000 of coverage because of bodily injury to two or more
persons in any one occurrence;
            (3)   $50,000 of coverage because of injury to or destruction of
property of others in any once occurrence;
            (4)   $250,000 of coverage for loss of means of support of any one
person in any one occurrence;
            (5)   $500,000 of coverage for loss of means of support of two or
more persons in any one occurrence;
            (6)   $250,000 of coverage for other pecuniary loss of any one
person in any one occurrence;
            (7)   $500,000 of coverage for other pecuniary loss of two or more
persons in any once occurrence; and
            (8)   An annual aggregate policy limit for general liability of not
less than $1,000,000 per policy year may be included in the policy provisions.
            (9)   The City of Farmington must be named as additional insured.
         (b)   A bond of a surety company with minimum coverages as provided in
subdivision H(2) of this section.
         (c)   This subdivision does not prohibit an insurer from providing the
coverage required by this section in combination with other insurance coverage.
(Ord. 2025-004, 7-21-2025)
3-27-6:   FEES:
   (A)   No registration shall be issued under this chapter until the
appropriate fees are paid in full.
   (B)   Fees for all registrations and temporary cannabis events shall be
established from time to time by ordinance of the City Council and set forth in
the Fee Schedule.
   (C)   At the time of initial registration, both the initial registration fee
and the renewal fee shall be due and payable.
   (D)   All fees are non-refundable and shall not be prorated.
   (E)   For the first renewal of the registration, no additional fee shall be
required. Beginning with the second renewal, and each subsequent renewal
thereafter, the renewal registration fee shall be paid at the time of renewal.
(Ord. 2025-004, 7-21-2025)
3-27-7:   REGISTRATION PERIOD:
   (A)   The initial registration is valid for two (2) years from the date of
issuance.
   (B)   Renewals:
      1.   Begin on the third (3rd) year;
      2.   Are based on the date of the original registration;
      3.   Are done at the same time as the Office of Cannabis Management
renews the retail license; and
      4.   Are issued for a period of one (1) year.
   (C)   Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. (Ord. 2025-004, 7-
21-2025)
3-27-8:   COMPLIANCE CHECKS:
   (A)   Initial Cannabis Retailer or Lower-Potency Hemp Retailer registration
shall not be issued unless, prior to opening for operations following approval
of an application for initial registration, the Applicant has passed a
preliminary compliance check conducted by the City to ensure compliance with
this chapter and any other regulations established pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes, Section 342.13.
   (B)   The City shall complete, at minimum, one (1) compliance check for each
registered business per calendar year to assess if the business meets age
verification requirements, as specified in Minnesota Statutes, Sections 342.22,
Subdivision 4(b), and 342.24. Compliance checks may involve, but are not
limited to, engaging underage individuals at least 17 years old, with prior
written consent from a parent or guardian, to enter the registered premises to
attempt to purchase hemp or cannabis related products. These purchases will be
made under the direct supervision of a Law Enforcement Officer.
      1.   If underage individuals are used for compliance checks, they shall
not be guilty of unlawful possession of hemp or cannabis related products when
such items are obtained as part of a compliance check.
      2.   No underage individual used in compliance checks shall attempt to
use false identification misrepresenting their age.
      3.   All minors lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all
questions about their age if asked by the licensee or their employee and shall
produce any identification for which the minor is asked.
      4.   Any failures under this section must be reported to the Office of
Cannabis Management. (Ord. 2025-004, 7-21-2025)
3-27-9:   TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS:
   (A)   Prior to holding a temporary cannabis event, any cannabis event
organizer with a license from the Office of Cannabis Management must obtain a
Temporary Cannabis Event Permit from the City Clerk.
   (B)   The application for a temporary cannabis event shall be made on a form
provided by the City. Along with the required information detailed in Minnesota
Statutes, Section 342.39, Subdivision 2, the form shall include the following
information, but is not limited to:
      1.   Full name of the property owner and applicant.
      2.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant.
      3.   Exact location and address of the property where the event will be
held and the full name of and approval from the property owner.
      4.   Dates and hours of the event.
      5.   Maximum number of anticipated attendees.
      6.   Proof of commercial general liability insurance covering all
injuries and damage caused by or as a result of the event in the sum of
$1,000,000 per occurrence for bodily injury or death or property damage naming
the City of Farmington as additional insured.
      7.   Certification that the applicant complies with the requirements of
Farmington City Code, established pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Section
342.13.
      8.   The applicant must provide:
         (a)   A copy of a valid State Cannabis Event Organizer License or
written notice of Office of Cannabis Management license approval;
         (b)   Verification that the applicant is current on all applicable
property taxes and assessments at the location where the retail establishment
is located; and
         (c)   A copy of the documentation showing compliance with State Fire
and Building Codes, if applicable to the business.
      9.   Proposed capacity of event space.
      10.   Security plan.
   (C)   Applications for temporary cannabis events will be administratively
considered and issued by the City Clerk or designee.
   (D)   Odors: No cannabis odors shall be perceptible to a person with a
normal sense of smell at the property line of the temporary cannabis event
location.
   (E)   On-site consumption of cannabinoid products is prohibited.
   (F)   All Temporary Cannabis Events must follow requirements of Minnesota
Statutes Chapter 342, as it may be amended from time to time, and all
requirements of the Cannabis Event Organizer License issued by the Office of
Cannabis Management. (Ord. 2025-004, 7-21-2025)
3-27-10:   VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   The City Administrator or designee is responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the provisions
of this chapter, or failure to comply with any of its requirements, or a
violation of cannabis business requirements in Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 342,
constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. Violations of
this chapter can occur, regardless of whether or not a registration is required
for a regulated activity. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the City from
enforcing any other applicable remedy including, but not limited to, injunctive
relief.
   (B)   Non-Registrants: Pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, Section 342.22,
Subdivision 5(e), the City may impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 per
violation for any sale of cannabis, cannabis products, or lower-potency hemp
edibles without possessing a valid registration.
   (C)   Registrants: A business registered under this chapter that fails to
operate in compliance with the requirements of this chapter or of Minnesota
Statutes, Chapter 342, shall be subject to a fine of not more than $2,000 and
may have its registration suspended for not more than thirty (30) days.
   (D)   Temporary Cannabis Events: A cannabis event organizer that violates
the requirements of this chapter or of Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 342, shall
be subject to a fine of not more than $2,000 per violation. (Ord. 2025-004, 7-
21-2025)
3-27-11:   DENIAL, REVOCATION, OR SUSPENSION:
   (A)   If a registration is mistakenly issued or renewed to any person or
entity, for any reason, including but not limited to the submission of false or
misleading information by the registration holder or applicant, the
registration will be suspended upon the discovery of ineligibility for
registration under this chapter or State of other local law, or other
regulation. Any suspension will comply with the requirements of Minnesota
Statutes, Section 342.22, Subdivision 5.
   (B)   Suspension of Registration.
      1.   The City may suspend a registration if the registration holder
violates this chapter or poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of
the public. The City shall immediately notify the business and the Office of
Cannabis Management, in writing, the grounds for the suspension and that any
sale to a customer or patient while the suspension is in effect is cause for a
civil penalty.
      2.   The business may not make sales to customers if their registration
is suspended.
      3.   Length of Suspension.
         (a)    The suspension of a retail registration may be up to thirty
(30) calendar days, unless the Office of Cannabis Management suspends the
license for a longer period.
         (b)   The City shall reinstate a registration if the Office of
Cannabis Management determines that the violation(s) have been resolved.
   (C)   The City may refuse a renewal registration and/or certification of a
license renewal if the license is associated with an individual or business who
no longer holds a valid license, has failed to pay the local registration or
renewal fee, or has been found in noncompliance with this chapter. (Ord. 2025-
004, 7-21-2025)
3-27-12:   ENFORCEMENT:
   (A)   The City Council may impose a fine or suspend a registration under
this chapter on a finding that the registered business has failed to comply
with an applicable statute, regulation, or ordinance, including a violation of
this chapter.
   (B)   Prior to imposing a fine or suspending any registration under this
chapter, the City shall provide the registered business with written notice of
the alleged violations and inform the registered business of its right to a
hearing on the alleged violation.
   (C)   Notice shall be delivered in person or by regular mail to the address
of the registered business and shall inform the registered business of its
right to a hearing. The notice will indicate that a written response must be
submitted within ten (10) days of receipt of the notice, or the right to a
hearing will be waived.
   (D)   Provided a timely request for a hearing is submitted by the registered
business, the City Council will hold a hearing before taking final action to
fine or suspend a registration. The City Council shall give due regard to the
frequency and seriousness of the violations, the ease with which such
violations could have been cured or avoided and good faith efforts to comply
and shall issue a decision to fine or suspend the registration only upon
written findings.
   (E)   If a timely request for a hearing is not received, the matter shall be
submitted to the City Council for imposition of the fine or suspension.
   (F)   If in the discretion of the Farmington Police Chief, or their
designee, a registered business poses an imminent threat to the health or
safety of the public, the City may immediately suspend the registration and
provide notice of the right to hold a subsequent hearing as described in (B)
above.
   (G)   The City may reinstate a registration if it determines that the
violations have been resolved. The City shall reinstate the registration if the
Office of Cannabis Management determines the violations have been resolved.
   (H)   All enforcement actions under this chapter will be reported to the
Office of Cannabis Management. (Ord. 2025-004, 7-21-2025)
3-27-13:   PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   (A)   Hours and Days of Sale.
      1.   Except for lower potency hemp edibles which are beverages, which
sale hours are set in
3-27-13 (C) of this ordinance, retail sale of cannabis, cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products is limited to between the hours of 8 am and 10 pm Monday through
Saturday, and 10 am and 9 pm on Sunday.
      2.   No retail sale of cannabis, cannabis flower, cannabis products,
lower potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products may be made:
         (a)   Before 8 am or after 10 pm Monday through Saturday.
         (b)   Before 10 am or after 9 pm on Sunday.
         (c)   Or otherwise as prohibited by law.
   (B)   Display of License and Registration. All licenses and registrations
must be posted and displayed on the premises and in plain view of the general
public.
   (C)   Lower Potency Hemp Edible Retailers
      1.   Storage of Product. Lower potency hemp edibles shall be stored
behind a counter or in a locked case.
      2.   The sale of lower potency hemp edibles which are beverages is
permitted at a location that is currently holding an On- or Off-Sale
Intoxicating Liquor License during the business hours outlined in the
intoxicating liquor ordinance and shall be served in a manner similar to
alcoholic beverages. (Ord. 2025-004, 7-21-2025)
3-27-14:   LOCAL GOVERNMENT AS A CANNABIS RETAILER:
   (A)   The City of Farmington may establish, own, and operate one municipal
cannabis retail business subject to the restrictions in this chapter.
   (B)   The municipal cannabis retail store shall not be included in any
limitation of the number of registered cannabis retail businesses under
3-27-5 (E).
   (C)   The City of Farmington shall be subject to the same requirements and
procedures applicable to other registrations. (Ord. 2025-004, 7-21-2025)
3-27-15:   USE IN PUBLIC SPACES OR PLACES OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION:
No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public space or a place of
public accommodation unless the premises is an establishment, or an event
licensed to permit on-site consumption of cannabis products. (Ord. 2025-004, 7-
21-2025)
3-27-16:   SIGNAGE:
Signage for cannabis businesses is subject to Section
10-6-3  of the Farmington City Code. (Ord. 2025-004, 7-21-2025)
TITLE 4
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
4-1-1: Adoption Of Building Code
4-1-2: Adoption Of Optional Provisions (Rep. by Ord. 2025-005, 7-21-2025)
4-1-3: Application, Administration And Enforcement
4-1-4: Permits And Fees
4-1-5: Violation And Penalties
4-1-6: Electrical Inspections
4-1-1: ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE:
The Minnesota state building code, as adopted pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
Annotated chapters 16B.59 to 16B.75, including all amendments, rules and
regulations established, adopted and published from time to time by the state
of Minnesota is hereby adopted by reference with the exception of the optional
chapters that are not specifically adopted by section
 4-1-2 of this chapter. The Minnesota state building code is hereby
incorporated in this chapter as if fully set out herein. (Ord. 008-581, 5-5-
2008)
4-1-2: ADOPTION OF OPTIONAL PROVISIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 2025-005, 7-21-2025)
4-1-3: APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
The application, administration, and enforcement of the code shall be in
accordance with Minnesota state building code. The code shall be enforced
within the extraterritorial limits permitted by Minnesota Statutes Annotated
section 16B.62, subdivision 1, when so established by this chapter. This code
shall be enforced by the building official designated by the city of Farmington
to administer the code 1 . (Ord. 003-489, 4-21-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA 16B.65 subdivision 1.
4-1-4: PERMITS AND FEES:
The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as authorized in
Minnesota Statutes Annotated 16B.62, subdivision 1. Permit fees shall be
assessed for work governed by this code in accordance with the fee schedule
adopted by the city of Farmington. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be
collected on all permits issued for work governed by this code in accordance
with Minnesota Statutes Annotated 16B.70. (Ord. 003-489, 4-21-2003)
4-1-5: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
A violation of the code is a misdemeanor 1 . (Ord. 003-489, 4-21-2003)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA 16B.
4-1-6: ELECTRICAL INSPECTIONS:
   (A)   Authority: Pursuant to Minnesota statutes 326B.36 the city of
Farmington hereby provides for the inspection of all electrical installations.
   (B)   Adoption Of Electrical Code: Minnesota rules chapter 1315 incorporates
the national electric code developed and published by the National Fire
Protection Association into the state building code. The city hereby adopts the
electrical provisions of the state building code including the national
electric code as the city's electrical code.
   (C)   Compliance With Code: All electrical installations shall comply with
the requirements of the electrical code of the city of Farmington and this
section.
   (D)   Inspector:
      1.   Appointment: There is hereby created the office of electrical
inspector. The city council shall appoint an electrical inspector, who may be
an employee or an independent contractor.
      2.   Licensed Inspector: The electrical inspector shall be a licensed
master or journeymen electrician as defined under Minnesota statutes.
      3.   Duties Of The Electrical Inspector: It shall be the duty of the
inspector to enforce the provisions of this section. The inspector shall, upon
application, grant permits for the installation or alteration of electrical
equipment, and shall make inspections of electrical installations, all as
provided in this section. The inspector shall keep complete records of all
permits issued, inspections and reinsertions made and other official work
performed in accordance with the provisions of this section.
      4.   Authority Of Electrical Inspector: The inspector shall have the
right during reasonable hours to enter any building or premises in the
discharge of his official duties, or for the purpose of making any inspection,
reinsertion or test of electrical equipment contained therein or its
installation. When any electrical equipment is found by the inspector to be
dangerous to persons or property because it is defective or defectively
installed, the person responsible for the electrical equipment shall be
notified in writing and shall make any changes or repairs required in the
judgment of the inspector to place such equipment in safe condition. If such
work is not completed within fifteen (15) days or any longer period that may be
specified by the inspector in said notice, the inspector shall have the
authority to disconnect or order discontinuance of electrical service to said
electrical equipment. In cases of emergency where necessary for safety to
persons and property, or where electrical equipment may interfere with the work
of the fire department, the inspector shall have the authority to disconnect or
cause disconnection immediately of any electrical equipment.
   (E)   Permit:
      1.   Permit Required: A permit shall be required for electrical work
regulated by the electrical code. Permits shall be issued according to
Minnesota rules chapter 1300, this section, and this code.
      2.   Application And Plans: Application for such permit, describing the
electrical work to be done, shall be made in writing, to the city by the person
so registered to do such work. The application shall be accompanied by such
plans, specifications and schedules as may be necessary to determine whether
the electrical installation as described will be in conformity with all the
legal requirements. The fees for electrical inspection as set forth in this
section shall accompany such application. If applicant has complied with all of
the provisions of this section, a permit for such electrical installation shall
be issued.
   (F)   Inspections:
      1.   All electrical inspections shall be subject to and in conformance
with the requirements and provisions of Minnesota statutes 326B.36, except as
specifically stated in this section.
      2.   At regular intervals, the electrical inspector shall visit all
premises where work may be done under annual permits and shall inspect all
electrical equipment installed under such a permit since the day of his last
previous inspection, and shall issue a certificate of approval for such work as
is found to be in conformity with the provisions of this section, after the fee
required has been paid.
      3.   When any electrical equipment is to be hidden from view by the
permanent placement of parts of the building, the person installing the
equipment shall notify the electrical inspector and such equipment shall not be
concealed until it has been inspected and approved by the electrical inspector
or until twenty four (24) hours, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays and holidays,
shall have elapsed from the time of such scheduled inspection; provided, that
on large installations where the concealment of equipment proceeds
continuously, the person installing the electrical equipment shall give the
electrical inspector due notice and inspections shall be made periodically
during the progress of the work.
      4.   If upon inspection, the installation is not found to be fully in
conformity with the provisions of this section, the electrical inspector shall
at once forward to the person making the installation a written notice stating
the defects which have been found to exist.
   (G)   Fees:
      1.   Permit Fees: Permit fees shall be as established in Minnesota
statutes 326B.37. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all
permits issued for work governed by this section in accordance with Minnesota
statutes 326B.148.
      2.   Fees Double, When: Should any person begin work of any kind, such as
set forth in this section, or for which a permit from the electrical inspector
is required by ordinance, without having secured the necessary permit therefor
from the inspector of buildings either previous to or during the day of the
commencement of any such work, or on the next succeeding day where such work is
commenced on a Saturday or on a Sunday or a holiday, he shall, when
subsequently securing such permit, be required to pay double the fees provided
for such permit.
      3.   Additional Fees And/Or Shortages: Additional fees and/or fee
shortages must be received by the city within fourteen (14) days of written
notice. If additional fees and/or fee shortages are not received within
fourteen (14) days of notice, permits for electrical installations will not be
accepted by the city until such time as the additional fees and/or fee
shortages are received.
   (H)   Enforcement And Penalties: Violations of the provisions of this
section may be enforced by any one, all, or any combination of the following
penalties and remedies:
      1.   Violations may be enforced through the administrative enforcement
chapter of this code;
      2.   Violations may be punishable as criminal offenses; and/or
      3.   Violations may be enforced by injunction, abatement, mandamus, or
any other appropriate remedy in any court of competent jurisdiction. (Ord. 011-
636, 7-18-2011)
FA192   04-02.TXT
CHAPTER 2
NUMBERING BUILDINGS
SECTION:
4-2-1: Baselines
4-2-2: Size Of Lots Numbered
4-2-3: Duty To Be Placed
4-2-4: Modifications
4-2-1: BASELINES:
Numbers shall be assigned to the lots or buildings on all streets and avenues
of the city, in accordance with the following plan:
   (A)   Willow Street shall be the baseline from which all streets and avenues
running east and west shall be numbered, and Division Street shall be the
baseline from which streets running north and south shall be numbered. All
streets and avenues intersecting such baselines shall have the words "East" or
"West" and "North" or "South" prefixed to the name of that part of each street
respectively.
   (B)   In numbering streets and avenues from said baselines, the first number
shall be 101 and numbers for each succeeding block shall increase in hundreds
progressively for lots and buildings on the left side of said baselines. For
lots and buildings on the right side of said baselines, the first number shall
be 100 and numbers for each succeeding block shall increase in hundreds
progressively. (1970 Code)
4-2-2: SIZE OF LOTS NUMBERED:
One number shall be assigned to each lot twenty five feet (25') or less in
width; one number to each lot twenty two feet (22') in width or twenty five
feet (25') in width; one number to each thirty feet (30'), or fraction thereof,
of street frontage of lots having a greater width or length than fifty feet
(50'). Small buildings less than twenty feet (20') in width standing
practically half on two (2) lots may be assigned a half number, provided that
the lot number has been used for another building. Said numbers when assigned
shall be recorded on a permanent plat to be kept in the clerk's office. (1970
Code)
4-2-3: DUTY TO BE PLACED:
Upon the completion of such map and public notice of the same having been
given, it shall be the duty of all owners or occupants of buildings to obtain
from the clerk the correct numbers of their respective buildings, for which no
fee shall be charged, and to cause said numbers, in figures not less than two
and one-half inches (21/2") high, to be placed on their buildings in a
conspicuous place. (1970 Code)
4-2-4: MODIFICATIONS:
The rules for numbering herein set out shall apply to all parts of the city
which have been platted into lots, but may be modified to provide but two (2)
numbers for each sublot in that part of the city not covered by regular plats.
(1970 Code)
FA192   04-03.TXT
CHAPTER 3
SIGNS; BILLBOARDS 1
(Rep. by Ord. 003-485, 2-18-2003)
FA192   04-04.TXT
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  10-6-3 of this code.
CHAPTER 4
CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF ANTENNAS AND SUPPORTING TOWERS 1
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose And Intent
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Permits
4-4-4: Fee
4-4-5: Construction Requirements
4-4-6: Existing Antennas And Towers
4-4-7: Lights And Other Attachments
4-4-8: Inspections
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  10-6-14 of this code.
4-4-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
In order to accommodate the communication needs of residents and businesses,
while protecting the public health, safety and general welfare of the
community, the city finds that these regulations are necessary in order to:
   (A)   Maximize the use of existing and approved towers and buildings in
order to reduce the number of towers needed to produce wireless
telecommunications services to the community.
   (B)   Ensure wireless telecommunications towers are designed, sited and
constructed in accordance with all applicable code requirements.
   (C)   Screen tower equipment from the view of persons located on properties
contiguous to the site and/or to be camouflaged in a manner to complement
existing structures. (Ord. 096-383, 11-18-1996)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
The following words and terms, when used in this chapter, shall have the
following meanings unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
ANTENNA: Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
transmitting electromagnetic waves, including, but not limited to, directional
antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes, and satellite dishes, and
omnidirectional antennas, such as whip antennas.
TOWER: Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, structure, or combination
thereof taller than fifteen feet (15'), including supporting lines, cables,
wires, braces and masts, intended primarily for the purpose of mounting an
antenna, meteorological device, or similar apparatus above grade. (Ord. 096-
383, 11-18-1996)
4-4-3: PERMITS:
   (A)   Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to erect,
construct in place, place or reerect, replace or repair any tower without first
making application to the building official and securing a permit therefor as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Applicant Information Required: The applicant shall provide, at the
time of application, sufficient information to indicate that construction,
installation and maintenance of the antenna and tower will not create a safety
hazard or damage to the property of other persons.
   (C)   Permits Are Not Required For:
      1.   Adjustment or replacement of the elements of an antenna array
affixed to a tower or antenna, provided that replacement does not reduce the
safety factor.
      2.   Antennas and/or towers erected temporarily for test purposes, for
emergency communication, or for broadcast remote pick up operations, provided
that all requirements of section
4-4-5 of this chapter are met. (Ord. 096-383, 11-18-1996)
4-4-4: FEE:
The permit fee payable shall be such as may be set from time to time by the
city council. (Ord. 096-383, 11-18-1996)
4-4-5: CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS:
All antennas and towers erected, constructed, or within the city, and all
wiring therefor, shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   All applicable provisions of this code.
   (B)   Towers shall be certified by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer to conform to the latest structural standards and wind loading
requirements of the Minnesota state building code and the Electronics Industry
Association.
   (C)   With the exception of necessary electric and telephone service and
connection lines approved by the issuing authority, no part of any antenna or
tower, nor any lines, cable, equipment or wires or braces in connection with
either shall at any time extend across or over any part of the right of way,
public street, highway, sidewalk, or property line.
   (D)   Towers and associated antennas shall be designed to conform with
accepted electrical engineering methods and practices and to comply with the
provisions of the national electrical code.
   (E)   All signal and remote control conductors of low energy extending
substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower or antenna and a
structure, shall be at least eight feet (8') above the ground at all points,
unless buried underground.
   (F)   Every tower affixed to the ground shall be protected to discourage
climbing of the tower by unauthorized persons.
   (G)   All towers shall be constructed to conform with the requirements of
the occupational safety and health administration. (Ord. 096-383, 11-18-1996)
   (H)   All towers erected within the city must conform to the applicable
standards in section
10-6-14 of this code. (Ord. 096-383, 11-18-1996; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
4-4-6: EXISTING ANTENNAS AND TOWERS:
Antennas and towers in residential districts and in existence as of date of
adoption which do not conform to or comply with this chapter are subject to the
following provisions:
   (A)   Towers may continue in use for the purpose now used and as now
existing, but may not be replaced or structurally altered without complying in
all respects with this chapter.
   (B)   If such towers are hereafter damaged or destroyed due to any reason or
cause whatsoever, the tower may be repaired and restored to its former use,
location and physical dimensions upon obtaining a building permit therefor, but
without otherwise complying with this chapter, provided, however, that if the
cost of repairing the tower would be ten percent (10%) or more of the cost of a
new tower, then the tower may not be repaired or restored except in full
compliance with this chapter. (Ord. 096-383, 11-18-1996)
4-4-7: LIGHTS AND OTHER ATTACHMENTS:
No antenna or tower shall have affixed or attached to it in any way, except
during time of repair or installation, any lights, reflectors, flashers, or
other illuminating device, as described in subsection
10-6-14(H) of this code, except as required by the federal aviation agency or
the federal communications commission, nor shall any tower have constructed
thereon, or attached thereto, in any way, any platform, catwalk, crow's nest,
or like structure, except during periods of construction or repair. (Ord. 096-
383, 11-18-1996; amd. Ord. 002-469, 4-19-2002)
4-4-8: INSPECTIONS:
All towers are subject to inspection by the city building inspection department
to determine compliance with construction standards. Any deviation from
original construction standards for which the permit was obtained shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
Notice of violation will be sent by registered mail to the owner and the owner
will have thirty (30) days from the date notification is issued to make
repairs. The owner will notify the building inspection department that repairs
have been made, and as soon as possible thereafter, another inspection will be
made and the owner notified of the results. (Ord. 096-383, 11-18-1996)
FA192   4-5.txt
CHAPTER 5
ARCHITECTURAL DESIGN AND MATERIALS
SECTION:
4-5-1: Elevations
4-5-2: Usable Materials
4-5-3: Alternate Materials
4-5-4: Pole Buildings
4-5-5: Residential Performance Standards
4-5-6: Zoning Codes
4-5-7: Appeals
4-5-1: ELEVATIONS:
   (A)   Building Permit: The application for a building permit, in addition to
other information required, shall include exterior elevations of the proposed
structure which will adequately and accurately indicate the height, size,
design and the appearance of all elevations of the proposed building and
description of the construction and materials proposed to be used therein.
(Ord. 093-319, 12-6-1993)
4-5-2: USABLE MATERIALS:
No building permits shall be issued for any structure for which a building
permit is required which contains exterior facing materials which rapidly
deteriorate or which, for any reason, are or quickly become unsightly. The
following are examples of such materials: concrete masonry units (unless
decorative block), common clay brick, sand lime brick, concrete brick,
unfinished structural clay tile, sheet metal (either corrugated or plain) and
exposed unfinished concrete. Such materials, however, may be used in a special
arrangement or combination with other materials of a permanent nature with good
architectural design and appeal. The provisions of this section shall not apply
to building permits issued for structures in zoning districts A-1 or C-1. (Ord.
093-319, 12-6-1993)
4-5-3: ALTERNATE MATERIALS:
In the event an owner, intending to apply for a building permit, desires to use
any of the materials included under section
4-5-2 of this chapter as exterior finish materials, such owner may present to
the building official a request for preliminary approval for the use of such
materials prior to the preparation of final drawings and application required
by other sections of this chapter. Such information may be necessary to
indicate accurately the use to be made of such materials and the appearance of
the exterior of such structure when completed.
If such request for preliminary approval of materials is granted by the
building official or the council, as the case may be, the sketch and other
information shall be properly marked for identification by the building
official and be filed in his office and such data shall become a part of the
building permit application when filed. (Ord. 093-319, 12-6-1993)
4-5-4: POLE BUILDINGS:
A pole building shall be permitted in zoning districts A-1 or C-1 and only in
any other district upon approval by the city council. Said council shall
exercise its discretion in determining whether or not a building of such type
will be compatible with the surrounding area. Such structures may be authorized
by the council for use as warehouse, heavy equipment storage, or other uses
which would tend to be compatible with that type of structure and in a location
where it would not be offensive to other property owners or persons within the
city. (Ord. 093-319, 12-6-1993)
4-5-5: RESIDENTIAL PERFORMANCE STANDARDS:
   (A)   International Residential Building Code: All residential units shall
meet applicable requirements of the one- and two- family dwelling code, 2012
edition, which has been adopted by reference by the city. (Ord. 015-689, 3-2-
2015)
   (B)   Dwelling Unit Restrictions:
      1.   No garage, tent, accessory building or motor home shall at any time
be used as living quarters, either temporarily or permanently.
      2.   Basements and cellars may be used as living quarters or rooms as a
portion of the principal residential dwelling. Energy conserving designs such
as earth sheltered housing shall be exempt from this provision.
      3.   Tents, playhouses or similar structures may be used for play or
recreational purposes such as children camping out overnight.
      4.   The minimum dimension of any part of the basic dwelling shall be
twenty two feet (22'). This shall not be construed to prohibit smaller
individual room additions or to restrict architectural design flexibility or
integrity. (Ord. 013-665, 10-21-2013)
      5.   All dwelling units shall be designed for placement on permanent
foundations complying with the international building code 1 . (Ord. 013-665,
10-21-2013; amd. Ord. 015-689, 3-2-2015)
   (C)   Accessory Buildings:
      1.   The maximum number of accessory buildings that shall be permitted on
each residential lot is as follows:
            (a)    One Acre Or Less: Two (2) accessory buildings.
            (b)    Greater Than One Acre But Less Than Two Acres: Three (3)
accessory buildings.
            (c)    Greater Than Two Acres But Less Than Three Acres: Four (4)
accessory buildings.
            (d)    Accessory Buildings: All accessory buildings shall comply
with lot coverage and size limitation requirements under the city zoning
ordinance 2 .
      2.   The same or similar quality exterior building material shall be used
in the accessory and principal building. All accessory buildings shall also be
compatible with the principal building to the extent that the exterior
appearance of the accessory building is not at variance with the principal
building from an aesthetic and architectural standpoint.
      3.   Accessory buildings exceeding two hundred forty (240) square feet in
floor area shall be designed for placement on a floating slab or permanent
foundation complying with the international residential code.
      4.   The height of an accessory building shall be measured from the mean
ground level to the uppermost point of the roof. Except as expressly permitted
by a conditional use permit, accessory buildings shall be limited to twenty
feet (20') in height. (Ord. 015-696, 3-16-2015)
   (D)   Property Maintenance: The purpose of this subsection is to ensure that
the exterior appearance of residential structures are maintained in an
acceptable manner and do not become a chronic nuisance, life safety issue or
substantially diminish property values.
      1.   General Requirements:
            (a)    Scope: The provisions of this section shall govern the
minimum conditions and the responsibilities of persons for the exterior
maintenance of structures.
            (b)    Responsibility: The owner of the premises shall maintain the
structures in a safe condition that is in compliance with the requirements of
this section.
      2.   Exterior Building Structure:
            (a)    General: The exterior of a building structure shall be
maintained in good repair, structurally sound and sanitary so as not to pose a
threat to the public health, safety or welfare.
            (b)    Structure: The foundation, exterior walls, exterior roof,
and all appurtenances thereto shall be kept in sound condition and repair. The
foundation must adequately support the building at all points. Exterior walls
shall be maintained and kept free from decay, dilapidation by cracks, tears or
breaks from deteriorated plaster, stucco, brick, wood, vinyl, aluminum and
steel siding, or other material that is extensive and shows evidence of
neglect. The protective surface on exterior walls of a building above ground
level must be maintained and in good repair so as to provide a sufficient
covering and protection of the structural surface underneath against its
deterioration. Without limiting the generality of this subsection, a protective
surface of a building shall also be deemed to be out of repair if:
               (1)    The protective surface is paint which is blistered or
peeled to an extent of more than twenty five percent (25%) of the area of any
place or wall or other area including windows, trims, cornices, railings, and
other such areas;
               (2)    More than twenty five percent (25%) of a wall that is
protected by vinyl siding, aluminum siding, steel siding or other comparable
protective coverings that reveals any part of the underlying structure;
               (3)    More than twenty five percent (25%) of the pointing of
any chimney or the pointing of any brick or stone wall is loose or has fallen
out; or
               (4)    More than twenty five percent (25%) of the finish coat of
a stucco wall is worn through, chipped away, broken, or damaged, revealing the
metal lathe or any part of the underlying structure;
               (5)    More than twenty five percent (25%) of the exterior roof
is missing shingles or other protective coverings.
            (c)    Completion Of Exterior Building Structure Projects: All
exterior building structure projects requiring a building permit (including,
but not limited to, siding) must be completed and pass inspection by the city's
building official within six (6) months of building permit issuance.
      3.   Duties And Powers Of The Building Official Or Designee:
            (a)    General: The building official or designee shall enforce the
provisions of this section.
            (b)    Right Of Entry: The building official or designee is
authorized to enter the premises or structure at reasonable times to inspect
subject to constitutional restrictions on unreasonable search and seizures. If
entry is refused or not obtained, the building official or designee is
authorized to pursue recourse as provided by law.
            (c)    Identification: The building official or designee shall
carry proper identification when inspecting structures in the performance of
duties under this section.
            (d)    Notices And Orders: The building official or designee shall
issue all necessary notices or orders to ensure compliance with this section.
            (e)    Modifications: Whenever there are practical difficulties
involved in carrying out the provisions of this section, the building official
or designee shall have the authority to grant modifications for individual
cases. The building official or designee shall first find that strict
compliance with this section imposes an undue hardship on the owner, and that
the modification does not lessen the health, aesthetic, life and fire safety
requirements. Modifications shall only relate to an extension of time to remedy
the violation; no modification from specific code requirements shall be
granted.
      4.   Notice And Orders:
            (a)    Notice To Owner Or To Person Or Persons Responsible:
Whenever the building official or designee determines that there has been a
violation of this section or has grounds to believe that a violation has
occurred, notice shall be given to the owner or the person or persons
responsible therefor in the manner prescribed in subsections (D)4(b) and (D)4
(c) of this section.
            (b)    Form: Such notice prescribed in subsection (D)4(a) of this
section shall:
               (1)    Be in writing;
               (2)    Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification;
               (3)    Include a statement of the violation or violations and
why the notice is being issued; and
               (4)    Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to
make the repairs and improvements required to bring the structure into
compliance with the provisions of this section.
            (c)    Method Of Service: Such notice shall be deemed to be
properly served if a copy thereof is:
               (1)    Delivered personally; or
               (2)    Sent by certified or first class mail addressed to the
owner at the last known address; or
               (3)    If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the structure affected by such notice.
            (d)    Transfer Of Ownership: It shall be unlawful for the owner of
any structure who has received a compliance order or upon whom a notice of
violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise
dispose of to another unit until the provisions of the compliance order or
notice of violation have been complied with, or until such owner shall first
furnish the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any
compliance order or notice of violation issued by the building official or
designee and shall furnish to the building official or designee a signed and
notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee or lessee,
acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or notice of violation and
fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making the corrections
or repairs required by such compliance order or notice of violation.
      5.   Violation:
            (a)    Violation Unlawful: It shall be unlawful for a person, firm
or corporation to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions
of this section.
            (b)    Notice Of Violation: The building official or designee shall
serve a notice of violation or order in accordance with subsection (D)4 of this
section or as required by state statute.
            (c)    Prosecution Of Violation: If the notice of violation is not
complied with, the building official or designee shall institute the
appropriate proceedings at law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such
violation of the provisions of this section or of the order or direction made
pursuant thereto.
            (d)    Violation Penalties: Any person who shall violate a
provision of this section, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements thereof is guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
            (e)    Abatement Of Violation: The imposition of the penalties
herein prescribed shall not preclude the city attorney from instituting
appropriate action to restrain, correct or abate a violation. (Ord. 013-665,
10-21-2013)
 
Notes
1 1. See chapter 1 of this title.
2 2. See title 10 of this code.
4-5-6: ZONING CODES:
This chapter shall be deemed supplementary to the zoning code and the building
code of the city and shall be enforced in harmony and in conjunction with each.
(Ord. 093-319, 12-6-1993)
4-5-7: APPEALS:
Any person aggrieved by a decision of the building official regarding the use
of certain materials, questions of architectural design or property maintenance
as outlined in this chapter shall be entitled to appeal the building official's
decision to the zoning officer and, if still aggrieved, he may appeal to the
board of adjustment as outlined in section
10-3-4 of this code. (Ord. 013-665, 10-21-2013)
FA192   04-06.TXT
CHAPTER 6
DEMOLITION
SECTION:
4-6-1: Permit Required
4-6-2: Permit Exceptions
4-6-3: Permit Application Requirements
4-6-4: Signage Required
4-6-5: Supervision By Building Official; Stop Work Orders
4-6-6: Required Procedures
4-6-7: Prevention Of Nuisances
4-6-8: Financial Security
4-6-9: Fee
4-6-10: Demolition Of Certain Historic Properties
4-6-1: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Pursuant to the state building code, as adopted and enforced by the city, no
person shall commence or proceed to wreck, demolish or tear down any building
or structure within the city, except as hereinafter provided, without first
having obtained a permit from the city's building official. Further, no person
shall remove or salvage any building fixture(s) from the building or structure
to be demolished until the permit required by this chapter has been obtained.
(Ord. 002-475, 5-6-2002)
4-6-2: PERMIT EXCEPTIONS:
No permit shall be required for the wrecking, demolishing or tearing down of a
private shed, garage or freestanding accessory building (except with respect to
those located on properties identified in section
4-6-10 of this chapter). Further, and except as provided elsewhere herein, this
chapter shall not apply in cases where partial demolition is necessary in
connection with a minor remodeling or altering of an existing building. (Ord.
002-475, 5-6-2002)
4-6-3: PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS:
The demolition permit application shall be signed by the owner of the property.
If the applicant is a person other than the owner of the property, the
application shall also be signed by the property owner. In addition to any
requirements that may be specified in the state building code for demolition
permits, the application shall include the following information:
   (A)   Names, addresses and telephone numbers of the property owner, the
applicant (if different than the property owner), and the demolition
contractor.
   (B)   Street address and legal description of the property on which the
building or structure in question is located.
   (C)   A separate, written demolition plan that includes:
      1.   The proposed starting and ending dates of the demolition process.
      2.   The proposed hours of operation of the demolition process.
      3.   Evidence that the demolition contractor is licensed, bonded and
insured. Any applicable policies of insurance shall not contain any "XC"
(explosion, collapse) exclusions.
      4.   Information about the steps that the applicant has taken to identify
and dispose of actual or potential contaminants located within the building or
structure or on the property in question.
      5.   A proposed traffic control plan (if the proposed demolition will
affect the use of a street, sidewalk or other public right of way).
      6.   Information about the proposed dump site(s) for the demolition
debris and the proposed route(s) for transporting demolished material(s) away
from the demolition site.
      7.   Proposed utility disconnection procedure(s).
      8.   Proposed access control procedures (fencing, security, etc.).
      9.   A dust control plan. (Ord. 002-475, 5-6-2002)
4-6-4: SIGNAGE REQUIRED:
Before any demolition work is commenced, and throughout the progress of same
until the completion thereof, the permit applicant shall place and maintain in
a conspicuous place on the premises a sign not less than three feet (3') by
three (3) square, on which shall be posted a statement as to who is conducting
the demolition, giving the name and telephone number of the person who is
performing the work. (Ord. 002-475, 5-6-2002)
4-6-5: SUPERVISION BY BUILDING OFFICIAL; STOP WORK ORDERS:
All wrecking, demolishing or tearing down of buildings or structures within the
city shall be subject to the supervision of the building official and to such
reasonable restrictions as the building official may impose to avoid all
preventable hazards to life, property or health. The building official may stop
the demolition of any building or structure whenever, in the building
official's judgment, the same is being done in a reckless, careless, unsafe or
improper manner, or in violation of any provision(s) of this code and/or state
law, and may order all persons engaged in the demolition process to stop and
desist therefrom until such time as the building official determines that the
work will be resumed in a manner that is safe and consistent with the
requirements of this code and/or state law. (Ord. 002-475, 5-6-2002)
4-6-6: REQUIRED PROCEDURES:
The wrecking, demolishing or tearing down of any building or structure shall be
complete and shall include the removal of all foundations, footings and floor
slabs. All fixtures and personal property located within the demolished
building or structure shall be removed from the site. The person doing the
demolition shall remove all steps, stoops, private sidewalks, accessory
buildings and hard surfaced driveways unless such removal is specifically
exempted by the building official. The excavation remaining after the removal
of all demolition debris shall be filled to the level of the surrounding grade
with clean, properly compacted granular type fill material. A topping of soil
of a sufficient depth and quality so as to enable ground cover to grow shall be
provided. Suitable ground cover shall be provided within sixty (60) days after
the completion of the demolition. (Ord. 002-475, 5-6-2002)
4-6-7: PREVENTION OF NUISANCES:
Each person engaged in the wrecking, demolition or tearing down of any building
or structure within the city shall conduct said work in such a manner as not to
create a nuisance to persons on public streets or on neighboring property.
Materials removed from the structure shall not be permitted to fall into
streets, alleys, or adjacent property or otherwise create a nuisance. (Ord.
002-475, 5-6-2002)
4-6-8: FINANCIAL SECURITY:
The applicant shall, prior to the release of the demolition permit, file with
the city a surety bond (or other security acceptable to the city) in an amount
determined by the building official. The surety bond shall indemnify and hold
the city harmless from all damages, judgments, losses, claims, suits or
liabilities of any kind arising out of the demolition of the building in
question. The surety bond shall be approved by the city attorney prior to the
release of the demolition permit. The surety bond shall not be canceled except
upon ten (10) days' written notice to the city. (Ord. 002-475, 5-6-2002)
4-6-9: FEE:
The demolition permit application fee shall be as established by the city
council in its annual fee resolution, and shall be paid in full prior to the
release of the demolition permit. (Ord. 002-475, 5-6-2002)
4-6-10: DEMOLITION OF CERTAIN HISTORIC PROPERTIES:
For any property included within one of the following categories, no permit for
the wrecking, demolition or tearing down of such property shall be released by
the city until the city council has granted final approval of a redevelopment
plan that is conditioned upon the wrecking, demolition or tearing down of such
property:
   (A)   Properties listed in the National Register of Historic Places.
   (B)   Properties designated by the city council as heritage landmarks.
   (C)   Properties determined by the Farmington heritage preservation
commission to be eligible for designation as heritage landmarks. (Ord. 002-475,
5-6-2002)
FA192   05-T.TXT
TITLE 5
FIRE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Organization And Purpose
5-1-2: Personnel
5-1-3: Fire Marshal
5-1-4: Interference With Fire Department Duties
5-1-5: Protection Of And Parking Near Fire Equipment
5-1-6: Aid And Assist Firefighters
5-1-7: Order Destruction
5-1-8: Use Of Fire Equipment
5-1-9: Fees
5-1-1: ORGANIZATION AND PURPOSE:
   (A)   The volunteer fire department of this city is hereby continued and
shall operate pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, this code, city
policies and procedures and department standard operating guidelines approved
by the city council. The department may adopt rules and regulations to govern
its affairs provided they do not conflict with the foregoing.
   (B)   The department shall be responsible for fire prevention, suppression
of fires, the protection of life and property against fire, enforcement of the
building code and fire code, the rendering of emergency services, and such
other duties as are prescribed by the city council.
   (C)   The members of the fire department may organize themselves into a
firefighters' relief association in accordance with state law. (Ord. 005-543,
9-19-2005, eff. 1-1-2006)
5-1-2: PERSONNEL:
   (A)   The department shall consist of a fire chief and such other members as
may be determined by the city from time to time. The department shall be under
the direction of the fire chief, who shall report to the city administrator.
The city council shall determine the qualifications, duties and compensation of
the fire chief and other members of the department.
   (B)   All department officers and members will be selected, appointed, and
removed by the city council in accordance with the city policies. (Ord. 014-
671, 11-17-2014)
5-1-3: FIRE MARSHAL:
The fire marshal shall be appointed by the city council upon the recommendation
of the fire chief and the city administrator. The fire marshal shall be
supervised by the fire chief and shall carry out duties and responsibilities as
provided by the city council. The fire chief shall perform the duties of fire
marshal in the fire marshal's absence and may be assigned the duties of fire
marshal by the city council. (Ord. 014-671, 11-17-2014)
5-1-4: INTERFERENCE WITH FIRE DEPARTMENT DUTIES:
No unauthorized person shall ride upon, race with, trail or follow within three
hundred feet (300') of any apparatus belonging to the fire department when such
apparatus is actively responding to an emergency call. (Ord. 092-288, 10-5-
1992)
5-1-5: PROTECTION OF AND PARKING NEAR FIRE EQUIPMENT:
No person shall drive any vehicle over a fire hose except upon specific orders
from a member of the police or fire departments of the city, and then only with
due caution.
No person shall park any vehicle or place any material or other obstruction
within twenty feet (20') of the entrance to a fire station or within fifteen
feet (15') of any fire hydrant, nor shall any person park any vehicle within
three hundred feet (300') of a place where a fire requiring firefighting by the
fire department is in progress. (Ord. 092-288, 10-5-1992)
5-1-6: AID AND ASSIST FIREFIGHTERS:
It shall be lawful for any officer of the fire department or the chief of
police to request the assistance of any person at any place in time of fire.
(Ord. 092-288, 10-5-1992)
5-1-7: ORDER DESTRUCTION:
It shall be lawful for the fire chief to order the destruction or removal of
any building or obstruction for the purpose of completing fire extinguishment.
(Ord. 092-288, 10-5-1992)
5-1-8: USE OF FIRE EQUIPMENT:
No person shall use any fire apparatus or equipment for any reason, except in
accordance with city policies regarding use of fire equipment and as authorized
by the fire chief and city administrator. (Ord. 005-543, 9-19-2005, eff. 1-1-
2006)
5-1-9: FEES:
All fees shall be in the amount set by the council from time to time by
resolution of the city council. (Ord. 092-288, 10-5-1992)
FA192   05-02.txt
CHAPTER 2
FIRE CODE
SECTION:
5-2-1: Adoption Of Minnesota State Fire Code
5-2-2: Enforcement
5-2-3: Violation And Penalties
5-2-1: ADOPTION OF MINNESOTA STATE FIRE CODE:
The Minnesota state fire code (2000), and all amendments thereto, is hereby
adopted by the city of Farmington as the governing regulations of the city's
fire prevention code. The Minnesota state fire code is hereby incorporated in
this chapter as if fully set out herein. (Ord. 003-488, 4-21-2003)
5-2-2: ENFORCEMENT:
Responsibility for enforcement of the provisions of this chapter shall be given
to the fire marshal. (Ord. 003-488, 4-21-2003)
5-2-3: VIOLATION AND PENALTIES:
Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be subject to the penalties
provided under title 1, chapter 4 of the city code. (Ord. 003-488, 4-21-2003)
FA192   5-3.txt
CHAPTER 3
OPEN BURNING
SECTION:
5-3-1: Definitions
5-3-2: State And Local Authority Regarding Open Burning
5-3-3: Authority To Issue Permits
5-3-4: Open Burning And Recreational Fires
5-3-5: Fires Or Barbecues On Balconies Or Patios
5-3-6: Portable Outdoor Fireplace
5-3-7: Portable Outdoor Gas-Fired Heating Appliances
5-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, except where the context otherwise requires,
the terms defined herein shall have the meanings given them:
OPEN BURNING: The burning of any matter if the resulting combustion products
are emitted directly into the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct,
or chimney, except a recreational or camp fire as defined herein. Mobile
cooking devices such as charcoal grills, wood smokers, manufactured hibachis,
and propane or natural gas devices are not considered open burning devices.
RECREATIONAL FIRE: A fire, no more than three feet (3') in diameter, completely
surrounded by non-combustible and non- smoke or odor-producing material, either
natural rock, cement, brick, tile, blocks, or ferrous metal. Burning barrels
are not a recreational fire site. (Ord. 017-732, 9-5-2017)
5-3-2: STATE AND LOCAL AUTHORITY REGARDING OPEN BURNING:
The City hereby adopts the Minnesota State Fire Code 1  and Minnesota Statute
chapter 88 as the local ordinance governing the issuance of open burning
permits, as modified in this chapter, and copies of the State Fire Code and
chapter 88 are on file with the Office of the Farmington Fire Chief. (Ord. 017-
732, 9-5-2017)
 
Notes
1 1. MSA § 299F.011 and Minnesota Rules ch. 7511.
5-3-3: AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PERMITS:
The Fire Marshal, Fire Chief, and Assistant Chiefs are hereby authorized to
issue open burning permits on behalf of the City. (Ord. 017-732, 9-5-2017)
5-3-4: OPEN BURNING AND RECREATIONAL FIRES:
   (A)   Prohibited, Except By Permit: No person shall start or allow any open
burning on any property in the City without first having obtained an open
burning permit.
   (B)   Application And Fees:
      1.   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a
form prescribed by the DNR and adopted by the Farmington Fire Department.
      2.   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee. Permit
fees shall be in an amount established by the City Council.
   (C)   Exceptions: A permit is not required for any fire which is a
recreational fire that complies with the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Recreational Fires: An outdoor fire burning authorized materials where
the fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor fireplace,
portable outdoor fireplace, barbeque grill or barbeque pit and has a total fuel
area of three feet (3') or less in diameter and two feet (2') or less in height
for pleasure, religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth or similar purposes.
      1.   Recreational Fire Requirements: A recreational fire is subject to
the following requirements:
            (a)    A recreational fire is not permitted when a burning ban or
air quality alert is in effect.
            (b)    The recreational fire site shall have appropriate
communication (cell phone) and adequate fire suppression equipment (charged
hose, filled water buckets) available.
            (c)    The recreational fire shall be attended to at all times by
an adult. No fire may ever be allowed to smolder.
            (d)    The recreational fire must be a minimum of ten feet (10')
from property lines and twenty five feet (25') from any structure or
combustible material.
            (e)    A recreational fire is not allowed if winds exceed fifteen
(15) miles per hour.
            (f)    Smoke from a recreational fire may not unreasonably impact
neighboring property owners, as determined by the enforcement official.
            (g)    Prohibited materials as listed below shall not be used for
any recreational fire.
   (E)   Prohibited Materials:
      1.   No person shall conduct, cause, or permit the open burning, or use
in a recreational fire, oils, petroleum fuels, rubber, plastic, chemically
treated materials, or other materials that produce excessive or noxious smoke
such as, but not limited to: tires; railroad ties; treated, painted, or glued
wood composite shingles; tar paper; insulation; composition board; sheet rock;
wiring; or paint and paint filters.
      2.   No person shall conduct, cause, or permit the open burning of
hazardous waste or materials from salvage operations; solid waste generated
from an industrial or manufactured process; materials from a service or
commercial establishment; or building materials generated from demolition of
commercial or institutional structures.
      3.   No person shall conduct, cause, or permit the open burning of
discarded materials resulting from the handling, processing, storage,
preparation, serving, or consumption of food.
      4.   No person shall conduct, cause, or permit the open burning of any
leaves, brush, or grass clippings. (Ord. 017-732, 9-5-2017)
5-3-5: FIRES OR BARBECUES ON BALCONIES OR PATIOS:
   (A)   Open Flame Prohibited: In any structure containing three (3) or more
dwelling units that have a common hallway and/or a shared means of egress, no
person shall kindle, maintain, or cause any fire or open flame on any balcony
above ground level, or on any ground floor patio within fifteen feet (15') of a
structure.
   (B)   Fuel Storage Prohibited: No person shall store or use any fuel,
barbecue, torch, or other similar heating or lighting chemical or device in the
locations designated in subsection (A) of this section.
   (C)   Exception: Listed electric or gas fired barbecue grills that are
permanently mounted and wired or plumbed to the building's gas supply or
electrical system and that maintain a minimum clearance of eighteen inches
(18") on all sides, unless listed for lesser clearances, may be installed on
balconies and patios when approved by the Fire Chief. (Ord. 017-732, 9-5-2017)
5-3-6: PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACE:
A portable, outdoor, solid-fuel-burning fireplace that may be constructed of
steel, concrete, clay or other noncombustible material. A portable outdoor
fireplace may be open in design, or may be equipped with a small hearth opening
and a short chimney or chimney opening in the top. Portable outdoor fireplaces
shall not be located closer than fifteen feet (15') to any structure or
combustible material. (Ord. 017-732, 9-5-2017)
5-3-7: PORTABLE OUTDOOR GAS-FIRED HEATING APPLIANCES:
   (A)   Prohibited Locations: The storage or use of portable outdoor gas-fired
heating appliances is prohibited in any of the following locations:
      1.   Inside of any occupancy when connected to the fuel gas container.
      2.   Inside of tents, canopies and membrane structures.
      3.   On exterior balconies. (Ord. 017-732, 9-5-2017)
fa192   5-4
CHAPTER 4
FIRE, BURGLARY AND SAFETY REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
5-4-1: Purpose
5-4-2: Definitions
5-4-3: Regulations and Requirements
5-4-4: Schedule of Payments Rated
5-4-5: Unlawful Act
5-4-1: PURPOSE:
This Chapter regulates the use of fire, burglary and safety alarms from misuse
of alarm systems through frequency of false alarms. (Ord. 092-288, 10-5-92)
5-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter:
ALARM SYSTEM: Includes any alarm installation designed to be used for the
prevention or detection of burglary, robbery, fire or safety devices on the
premises which contain an alarm installation. Automobile alarm devices shall
not be considered an alarm system.
ALARM USER: The person or business using an alarm system to protect the
premises, regardless of whether the system is owned or leased.
AUDIBLE ALARM: A device designed for the detection of smoke or fire or of an
unauthorized entry on the premises, which alarm activates or generates an
audible sound on or near the premises.
AUTOMATIC DIALING DEVICE: An automatic alarm system which automatically sends,
over telephone lines, a prerecorded voice message or signal indicating the
existence of an emergency situation.
CALENDAR YEAR: The period January 1 through December 31 of each year.
FALSE ALARM: The occurrence of an alarm in an alarm system for any reason other
than an authorized intrusion or attempted robbery, or call to an existing fire.
FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: A commercial bank, savings and loan association, credit
union or establishment leasing safety deposit boxes.
NONRESIDENTIAL: Commercial, industrial, business, State agencies, special
purpose units of government, apartment complexes, schools and hospitals.
RESIDENTIAL ALARM USER: Occupied housing units, residential homes and
condominiums. (Ord. 092-288, 10-5-92)
5-4-3: REGULATIONS AND REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Alarm User Registration: Any alarm user shall fill out and return to
the Police Department the "alarm user registration" form as provided within
thirty (30) days.
   (B)   False Alarm Statement of Correction: Following the third false alarm
within the calendar year, the alarm user shall fill out and return to the
Police Department, within five (5) days, the "false alarm statement of
corrections". This form shall contain a detailed statement of the corrective
actions the alarm user has taken to prevent additional false alarms, and to
notify the alarm user of impending forfeitures should additional false alarms
occur.
   (C)   Audible Alarms: All audible alarms shall meet the following
requirements:
      1.   Every person maintaining an alarm system with an audible alarm
signal shall post a notice containing the name and telephone number of a person
to be notified to render repairs or service to such alarm system during any
hour of the day or night upon activation of such alarm system. Such notice
shall be posted at the main entrance to such premises or near the alarm in such
a position as to be legible from the ground level adjacent to the building.
      2.   Alarm systems with audible alarm signals, except for fire alarms,
shall have an automatic shut off which will silence the audible alarm within a
period not to exceed twenty (20) minutes.
   (D)   In-House Annunciation Panel: Financial institutions having an alarm
system with multiple sensors shall have an in-house annunciation panel
providing specific annunciation of the sensors at a private monitoring location
on the premises. When, in the judgment of the Police Department, no such
private monitoring location is possible on the premises, the requirements of
this subparagraph (D) may be waived.
   (E)   Installation of Alarm System: No person shall install an alarm system
or use, monitor and possess an operative alarm system which utilizes taped or
prerecorded messages which deliver a telephone alarm message to the Police or
Fire Departments. No automatic dialing services or systems are permitted in any
form, including automatic dialing of the emergency number 911. (Ord. 092-288,
10-5-92)
5-4-4: SCHEDULE OF PAYMENTS RATES:
   (A)   Residential and nonresidential users of alarm systems shall be
permitted three (3) false alarms per calendar year.
   (B)   Any alarm user who has more than three (3) false alarms in any
calendar year shall pay a fee set from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
   (C)   There is hereby established a thirty (30) day grace period for all
newly installed alarm systems. All false alarms occurring during this period
shall not be considered part of the three (3) allowable false alarms per year.
The installation date must be verified by a dated sales receipt for the alarm
system, or a dated invoice from the installer of the alarm system.
   (D)   The false alarm is excused if prior written notification stating the
exact time and date is given to the Police Department, and the alarm is
activated for the purposes of testing or upgrading the alarm system.
   (E)   All payments provided for in this subsection shall be made to the City
within thirty (30) days after mailing a statement to the alarm user. Payments
not made within thirty (30) days are delinquent and a penalty of ten percent
(10%) of amount due will be added. All delinquent charges and penalties shall
be certified by the City Clerk to the County Auditor each year providing for
assessment of the delinquent amounts against the property of the delinquent
alarm user.
   (F)   All information submitted in compliance with this Section shall be
held in confidence and shall be deemed a confidential record exempt from
discovery to the extent permitted by law. Subject to requirement of
confidentiality, the Chief of Police may develop and maintain statistics for
the purpose of ongoing alarm system evaluation. (Ord. 092-288, 10-5-92)
5-4-5: UNLAWFUL ACT:
It is unlawful for any person to fail or refuse to comply with the regulations
set forth in this Chapter. (Ord. 092-288, 10-5-92)
FA192   05-05.TXT
CHAPTER 5
SALE, POSSESSION, AND USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS
SECTION:
5-5-1: Adoption Of State Law
5-5-2: Purpose And Findings
5-5-3: Permit Required
5-5-4: Definitions
5-5-5: Permit Application
5-5-6: License Period And Permit Fee
5-5-7: Revocation Of License
5-5-8: Terms And Conditions For Issuance Of Permit
5-5-9: Discharge Rules And Regulations
5-5-10: Public Display
5-5-1: ADOPTION OF STATE LAW:
The provisions of MSA sections 624.20 through 624.25, inclusive, are adopted by
reference. (Ord. 003-491, 7-7-2003)
5-5-2: PURPOSE AND FINDINGS:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the sale of permitted consumer
fireworks in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the general
public. The city council makes the following findings regarding the need to
license and regulate the sale, distribution, storage, and display of fireworks
permitted under state law:
   (A)   Consumer fireworks contain pyrotechnic chemical compositions that are
combustible; accordingly, the unregulated accumulation, storage, display and
sale of these items present a fire safety hazard.
   (B)   The improper disposal of consumer fireworks presents environmental
hazards.
   (C)   Regular inspection, sampling and testing of the consumer fireworks
being offered for sale is necessary to assure compliance with the limitations
set forth in MSA section 624.20, subdivision 1(c), as to chemical content.
   (D)   Regular police inspections are necessary to prevent the sale of these
materials to minors.
   (E)   Regular inspections by the city fire marshal are necessary to prevent
improper display, storage and disposal of consumer fireworks.
   (F)   Accurate information concerning the addresses and locations of persons
dealing in permitted consumer fireworks in the city is necessary to facilitate
the inspection of the premises for compliance with necessary safety regulations
and performance standards and to assist the city in responding to any emergency
situation arising out of or adjacent to this business. (Ord. 003-491, 7-7-2003)
5-5-3: PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person, without securing a permit from the city of Farmington, shall do any
of the following:
   (A)   Manufacture, store, or sell consumer fireworks;
   (B)   Make a public display of fireworks. (Ord. 003-491, 7-7-2003)
5-5-4: DEFINITIONS:
The following word is defined as:
CONSUMER FIREWORKS: Wire or wood sparklers of not more than one hundred grams
(100 g) of mixture per item, other sparkling items which are nonexplosive and
nonaerial and contain seventy five grams (75 g) or less of chemical mixture per
tube or a total of two hundred grams (200 g) or less for multiple tubes, snakes
and glowworms, smoke devices, or trick noisemakers which include paper
streamers, party poppers, string poppers, snappers, and drop pops, each
consisting of not more than twenty five hundredths grains of explosive mixture.
(Ord. 003-491, 7-7-2003)
5-5-5: PERMIT APPLICATION:
The application for the permit for the manufacturing, storage, and sale of
consumer fireworks shall be made to the fire marshal. A determination by the
fire marshal that the location where consumer fireworks are to be stored or
sold is not hazardous to property or endangers any person and that the persons
in charge of selling or storing the consumer fireworks are competent and
trained to handle such consumer fireworks must be made prior to processing the
application. The application for permit shall be accompanied by a letter from
the owner of the property on which the sale is to take place. Such letter shall
grant permission to the applicant for the use of the property. The application
shall include a floor plan designating the area for manufacturing, storage or
display along with a list documenting the name, weight, and quantity of
consumer fireworks within the building and be accompanied by the material
safety data sheets. Applications must be made a minimum of ten (10) days prior
to operating. Any permit granted hereunder shall be nontransferable. (Ord. 003-
491, 7-7-2003)
5-5-6: LICENSE PERIOD AND PERMIT FEE:
Licenses shall be issued for a calendar year. Permit fees shall not be
prorated. The fee for the permit shall be that as provided in the current city
fee schedule. (Ord. 003-491, 7-7-2003)
5-5-7: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Following written notice and an opportunity for a hearing, the fire marshal may
revoke a license for violation of this chapter or state law concerning the
sale, use, or possession of fireworks. If a license is revoked, neither the
applicant nor the licensed premises may obtain a license for twelve (12)
months. If the fire marshal revokes a license, the license holder may within
ten (10) days appeal the decision to the city council. (Ord. 003-491, 7-7-2003)
5-5-8: TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT:
A permit for manufacturing, storage, or retail sale of consumer fireworks shall
be issued only upon the following terms and conditions:
   (A)   All fireworks sales facilities or stores selling fireworks shall
comply with NFPA 1124 (2003 edition).
   (B)   Transient sales of consumer fireworks shall comply with this code.
   (C)   Smoking shall be prohibited within fifty feet (50') in which fireworks
are manufactured, stored or sold.
   (D)   The discharge of consumer fireworks shall be prohibited within three
hundred feet (300') of any building or stand in which fireworks are
manufactured, stored or sold.
   (E)   A representative sample of all fireworks to be sold shall be furnished
to the fire marshal for inspection to ensure compliance with state law. (Ord.
003-491, 7-7-2003)
5-5-9: DISCHARGE RULES AND REGULATIONS:
   (A)   It is unlawful to use, fire, or discharge consumer fireworks along the
route of and during any parade or at any place of public assembly or in any
business zoning district.
   (B)   It is unlawful at any time to throw or toss consumer fireworks at any
person, animal, vehicle or other thing or object.
   (C)   Smoking shall be prohibited within fifty feet (50') in which fireworks
are manufactured, stored or sold.
   (D)   The discharge of consumer fireworks shall be prohibited within three
hundred feet (300') of any building or stand in which fireworks are
manufactured, stored or sold.
   (E)   Consumer fireworks may only be discharged in an area with a water
source connected to a hose or other acceptable means of putting out a fire.
   (F)   The fire chief may ban fireworks displays and the use of consumer
fireworks if a drought is evident.
   (G)   Juveniles may not possess consumer fireworks unless under the direct
supervision of a responsible adult. (Ord. 003-491, 7-7-2003)
5-5-10: PUBLIC DISPLAY:
The public display of fireworks shall require a permit issued by the fire
marshal in accordance with MSA section 624.22. (Ord. 003-491, 7-7-2003)
FA192   6t.txt
TITLE 6
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
6-1-1: Abandoned Refrigerators; Other Containers
6-1-2: Birds; Injury To
6-1-3: Gambling
6-1-4: Injurious Material On Thoroughfares, Deposit Of
6-1-5: Lawn Clippings
6-1-6: Snow Removal
6-1-7: Water Flowing Upon Public Streets
6-1-8: Adoption Of Criminal Code
6-1-1: ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS; OTHER CONTAINERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person, being the owner or in possession or
control, to permit an unused refrigerator or other container, sufficiently
large to retain any child and with doors which fasten automatically when
closed, to be exposed and accessible to children, without removing the doors,
lids, hinges or latches therefrom. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-1-2: BIRDS; INJURY TO:
It shall be unlawful for any person to kill or wound, or attempt to kill or
wound, by use of a firearm, slingshot, bow and arrow or otherwise, any bird
other than English sparrows, or to take the eggs or young of any bird. (Ord.
015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-1-3: GAMBLING:
Gambling is regulated under title 3, chapter 19 of this code. (Ord. 015-698, 6-
15-2015)
6-1-4: INJURIOUS MATERIAL ON THOROUGHFARES, DEPOSIT OF:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place or allow to remain in or
upon any public thoroughfare any material or substance injurious to person or
property. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-1-5: LAWN CLIPPINGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any lawn clippings, leaves or
other refuse on any street, drainage easement or public right of way. (Ord.
015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-1-6: SNOW REMOVAL:
Removal of snow and ice from sidewalks and trails in the city shall be the
responsibility of the abutting property owners or occupants. Those sidewalks
and trails specifically listed on attachment A of the city adopted "snowplowing
policy" shall be maintained by the city and identified by published notice.
   (A)   Accumulation Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any owner or
occupant of any building, in front of which or adjacent to where a sidewalk has
been constructed for the use of the public, to allow any accumulation of ice or
snow to remain upon said sidewalk longer than twelve (12) hours after said ice
or snow has ceased to be deposited thereon.
   (B)   Public Streets: It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit snow
from private property upon any public street within the city.
   (C)   Enforcement: In the event an owner or occupant fails to comply with
the provisions of this section, the city may, at its option, remove said ice or
snow. All costs of said removal shall be billed to the owner of the premises,
which bill shall be immediately due and payable to the city.
   (D)   Penalty: The fact that an owner of premises reimburses the city for
ice or snow which has been removed shall not preclude the city from issuing a
complaint for violation of this section.
   (E)   Delinquency: Unpaid bills more than thirty (30) days past due shall be
considered in default and will be assessed a penalty as set forth from time to
time by resolution of the city council. The city council may levy an assessment
equal to such unpaid cost plus penalty against each lot or parcel of land from
which the snow has been removed pursuant to the provisions of Minnesota
Statutes Annotated 429.101. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-1-7: WATER FLOWING UPON PUBLIC STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to allow or cause any water to flow or
accumulate in or upon any public thoroughfare, street, sidewalk, alley,
sanitary sewer, park or other public place by pumping water by means of any
type of pumping device, other than a groundwater sump pump. It shall be
unlawful for any person, owner, occupant or user of premises to allow or cause
water to flow or accumulate on one's own private property by pumping water by
means of any type of pumping device, other than a groundwater sump pump in such
a manner so that the water is carried across one's own private property and
thereafter flows onto or accumulates in or upon any public thoroughfare,
street, sidewalk, alley, sanitary sewer, park, or any other public place. (Ord.
015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-1-8: ADOPTION OF CRIMINAL CODE:
The criminal code of 1963, as amended, and other statutes specifying violations
and penalties, as found in Minnesota Statutes Annotated chapter 609, as the
same relates to crimes which constitute a "misdemeanor" are hereby adopted by
reference, and unless otherwise expressly stated within the city code, the
provisions of this section also apply to all other crimes which constitute a
misdemeanor created by Minnesota statutes other than chapter 609. (Ord. 015-
698, 6-15-2015)
FA192   6-2.txt
CHAPTER 2
DOGS
SECTION:
6-2-1: [Reserved]
6-2-2: [Reserved]
6-2-3: [Reserved]
6-2-4: Dog Pound
6-2-5: Impounding Of Dogs And Fees
6-2-6: Redemption Of Impounded Dogs
6-2-7: Disposal Of Unredeemed Dogs
6-2-8: Dangerous Dogs
6-2-9: Barking Dogs
6-2-10: Trespassing By Dogs
6-2-11: Running At Large Prohibited
6-2-12: Dogs As Public Nuisances
6-2-13: Quarantine
6-2-14: Limitation Of Dogs On Premises
6-2-15: Dog Shelters
6-2-16: Rabies Vaccination
6-2-1: [RESERVED]:
6-2-2: [RESERVED]:
6-2-3: [RESERVED]:
6-2-4: DOG POUND:
The Council shall from time to time designate a place as City dog pound where
suitable arrangements are made for keeping and maintaining any dogs which may
be seized or taken into custody by any officer of the City pursuant to this
chapter. (Ord. 019-746, 5-20-2019)
6-2-5: IMPOUNDING OF DOGS AND FEES:
If the dog is microchipped, wears a veterinarian issued rabies tag or any tags
or collars with contact information and phone number(s) inscribed on it,
officers will attempt to contact the owner and return the dog. If the dog is
not microchipped or not wearing a veterinarian issued rabies tag or any tags or
collars with contact information and phone number(s) inscribed on it, officers
will transport the dog to the contracted dog shelter. The dog will remain there
until the owner is contacted or for five (5) days, whichever is shorter. The
City is responsible for housing fees on those dogs. Identified pet owners are
responsible for fees on boarding their pets when they are located. Any dog may
be impounded for violation of this chapter. The owner shall be responsible for
and shall pay all boarding, impoundment, and veterinarian fees before the dog
is reclaimed. (Ord. 019-746, 5-20-2019; amd. Ord. 023-777, 12-4-2023, eff. 1-1-
2024)
6-2-6: REDEMPTION OF IMPOUNDED DOGS:
If the dog is not microchipped or not wearing a veterinarian issued rabies tag
or any tags or collars with contact information and phone number(s) inscribed
on it and no owner is located within five (5) days, the contracted dog shelter
will look for alternative placement or adoption. (Ord. 019-746, 5-20-2019; amd.
Ord. 023-777, 12-4-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
6-2-7: DISPOSAL OF UNREDEEMED DOGS:
Any dog which is not claimed as provided in section
6-2-6 of this chapter within five (5) days after impounding may be sold by the
dogcatcher according to the agreement and the fees so received retained by the
City. (Ord. 019-746, 5-20-2019)
6-2-8: DANGEROUS DOGS:
   (A)   Definitions:
   DANGEROUS DOG:
      1. Any dog that has:
         (a)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the
owner's property; or
         (c)   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      2.   A dog shall not be declared a "dangerous dog" if the threat, injury,
or damage was sustained by a person:
         (a)   Who was committing, at the time, a wilful trespass or other tort
upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog;
         (b)   Who was provoking, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or
who can be shown to have repeatedly, in the past, provoked, tormented, abused,
or assaulted the dog; or
         (c)   Who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG: Any dog that:
      1.   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
      2.   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a person
on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private property,
other than the dog owner's property, in an apparent attitude of attack; or
      3.   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
   (B)   Registration Required: All dangerous dogs must be registered with the
City. The City shall issue a certificate of registration to the owner of a
dangerous dog if the owner presents sufficient evidence that:
      1.   A proper enclosure exists for the dangerous dog as required under
this section and a posting on the premises with a clearly visible warning sign
as required under this section, including a warning symbol to inform children
that there is a dangerous dog on the property; and
      2.   A surety bond issued by a surety company authorized to conduct
business in this State in a form acceptable to the City in the sum of at least
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), payable to any person injured by the
dangerous dog, or a policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance
company authorized to conduct business in this State in the amount of at least
fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), insuring the owner for any personal
injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog. Such insurance policy shall provide
that no cancellation of the policy will be made unless ten (10) days' written
notice is first given to the City Clerk.
At the time of registration, the City shall provide to the owner of the
dangerous dog for posting on the owner's property a copy of a warning symbol to
inform children that there is a dangerous dog on the property.
   (C)   Fees:
      1.   Registration: The City shall charge an annual registration fee,
which amount shall be set by resolution of the City Council from time to time.
      2.   Warning Symbols: The City shall charge a fee for warning symbols
provided to owners of dangerous dogs for posting on their property, which
amount shall be set by resolution of the City Council from time to time.
   (D)   Requirements: Owners of dangerous dogs within the City shall comply
with the following:
      1.   Tag: A dangerous dog must have a standardized, easily identifiable
tag identifying the dog as dangerous and containing the uniform dangerous dog
symbol required by the City affixed to the dog's collar at all times.
      2.   Confinement: All dangerous dogs shall be securely confined indoors
or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and
muzzled as required under this section. Such pen, kennel, or structure must
have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All structures used
to confine dangerous dogs must be locked with a key or combination lock when
such animals are within the structure. Such structure must have a secure bottom
or floor attached to the sides of the pen or the sides of the pen must be
embedded in the ground no less than two feet (2'). All structures erected to
house dangerous dogs must comply with all zoning and building regulations of
the City. All such structures must be adequately lighted and ventilated and
kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      3.   Leash And Muzzle: No person shall permit a dangerous dog to go
outside its kennel or pen unless such dog is securely leashed with a leash no
longer than four feet (4') in length. No person shall permit a dangerous dog to
be kept on a chain, rope or other type of leash outside its kennel or pen
unless a person is in physical control of the leash. Such dogs may not be
leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings, and the like. In
addition, all dangerous dogs on a leash outside the animal's kennel or pen must
be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such dog from biting
persons or other animals.
      4.   Confinement Indoors: No dangerous dog may be kept on a porch, patio
or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to exit such
building on its own volition. In addition, no such dog may be kept in a house
or structure when the windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors
are the only obstacle preventing the dog from exiting the structure.
   (E)   Law Enforcement Exemption: The provisions of this section do not apply
to dangerous dogs used by law enforcement officials for policework.
   (F)   Confiscation:
      1.   Seizure: The City shall immediately seize any dangerous dog if:
            (a)    After fourteen (14) days after the owner has notice that the
dog is dangerous, the dog is not validly registered under this section;
            (b)    After fourteen (14) days after the owner has notice that the
dog is dangerous, the owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or
surety coverage as required under this section;
            (c)    The dog is not maintained in the proper enclosure; or
            (d)    The dog is outside the proper enclosure and not under
physical restraint of a responsible person as required under this section.
      2.   Reclaimed: An owner may reclaim a dangerous dog seized under this
section by paying impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to the City
that the requirements of this section have been met. The City may dispose of a
dog that is not reclaimed within seven (7) days and the owner is liable to the
City for costs incurred in confining and disposing of the dog.
      3.   Subsequent Offenses: The City shall seize any dog where a person has
been convicted of a misdemeanor for violating Minnesota Statutes Annotated
347.51 or 347.52, and the person is charged with a subsequent violation
relating to the same dog. If the person is convicted of the crime for which the
dog was seized, the City will destroy the dog in accordance with the order of
the court and the owner shall pay the cost of confining and destroying the
animal. If the person is not convicted of the crime for which the dog was
seized, the dog may be reclaimed pursuant to subsection (F)2 of this section or
disposed of within seven (7) days if unclaimed.  (Ord. 019-746, 5-20-2019; amd.
Ord. 023-777, 12-4-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
6-2-9: BARKING DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor, keep or have in his/her
possession or on his/her premises any dog, which by loud and frequent barking,
howling, or yelping shall cause noise, disturbance or annoyance to persons
residing in the vicinity thereof. (Ord. 019-746, 5-20-2019)
6-2-10: TRESPASSING BY DOGS:
It shall be unlawful for any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog, or the
parents or guardians of any such person under twenty one (21) years of age, to
allow such dog to stray or trespass upon the premises of any other person to
the latter's damage or annoyance. (Ord. 019-746, 5-20-2019)
6-2-11: RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person owning, possessing or harboring any dog, or
the parents or guardians of any such person under twenty one (21) years of age,
to allow such dog to run at large within the Urban Districts of the City, or
within the Rural Districts of the City if said dog can be classified a public
nuisance as set forth in section
6-2-12 of this chapter. All dogs within the Urban Districts, not confined
within an enclosure shall be kept on a leash securely fastened or held so as to
prevent the dog from running at large. A dog within the Urban Districts shall
be deemed to be running at large if the same is off the premises of the person
who owns, harbors or keeps said dog and not under the control of such person or
some other person designated by him/her, either by leash, cord or chain.
   (A)   The Rural District shall include all platted and unplatted land
presently within the limits of the City, or hereinafter annexed thereto, which
is not developed for commercial, industrial or urban residential purposes. Land
in Rural Districts must be open, rural in character and maintained generally in
farm crops, pasture land, seeded or diverted acreage.
   (B)   The Urban District shall include all other lands within the limits of
the City, or such lands hereinafter annexed, which are not within the Rural
Districts. (Ord. 019-746, 5-20-2019)
6-2-12: DOGS AS PUBLIC NUISANCES:
It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any dog within the corporate
limits of the City of Farmington, whether permanently or temporarily therein,
to permit such dog from committing any act which constitutes a nuisance. It
shall be considered a nuisance for any dog to habitually or frequently bark or
howl, to run at large, to trespass, to perform lewd acts or annoy any person,
or to defile or destroy any property, public or private. Unrestrained dogs, or
those dogs considered a nuisance, may be taken by the dogcatcher, any law
enforcement officer of the City and by other persons designated by the City to
assist in the enforcement of this chapter and be impounded. Such officers shall
have the right to enter upon premises, whether public or private, for the
purpose of impounding an animal which constitutes a nuisance. (Ord. 019-746, 5-
20-2019)
6-2-13: QUARANTINE:
Whenever any person owning, possessing or harboring any dog within the
corporate limits of the City shall learn that such dog has bitten any human
being, such person shall immediately impound said dog in a place of confinement
where it cannot escape or have access to any human being or other animal and
shall also immediately notify the Chief of Police. Whenever the Chief of Police
shall learn that any human being has been bitten by any dog within said City,
he/she shall ascertain the identity of such dog and the person owning,
possessing or harboring it and shall immediately direct such person to
forthwith impound such dog as herein required. Any dog so impounded shall be
kept continuously so confined for a period of fourteen (14) days from the day
the dog bit a human being.
Upon learning that a dog has bitten a human being, the Chief of Police shall
immediately notify the Health Officer and inform him/her of the place where the
dog is impounded. It shall be the duty of the Health Officer to inspect the
said dog from time to time during its period of fourteen (14) days' confinement
and to determine whether such dog is infected with rabies. For this purpose he/
she shall have access to the premises where such dog is kept at all reasonable
hours and may take possession of the dog and confine it in the City dog pound
or other suitable place at the expense of the owner. The owner or person in
possession or harboring such dog shall immediately notify the Health Officer of
any evidence of sickness or disease in the dog during the period of confinement
and shall promptly deliver its carcass to the Health Officer in case of its
death during said period. (Ord. 019-746, 5-20-2019)
6-2-14: LIMITATION OF DOGS ON PREMISES:
   (A)   Limits: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any parcel of land
within the corporate limits of the City of Farmington to own, keep or harbor,
or allow to be owned, kept or harbored on said parcel more than three (3) dogs,
unless a license and conditional use permit for a commercial kennel or
residential hobby kennel has been secured. For purposes of this section "owner"
shall be any person, firm, partnership, corporation, shown to be such on the
record of the Dakota County Auditor or Dakota County Treasurer. For purposes of
this section, "parcel of land" shall mean that portion of land intended as a
unit of ownership to which the Dakota County Auditor or Dakota County Treasurer
has assigned a parcel number.
   (B)   Exception: The owner of a parcel of land in the City of Farmington
shall be allowed to own and keep up to a maximum of four (4) dogs on a
temporary basis under the following conditions:
      1.   All dogs shall have been owned prior to residency in the City.
      2.   All dogs kept under provision of this section shall be unsexed as
documented by a veterinarian's certificate.
      3.   All dogs kept under provisions of this section shall be sheltered
within the primary residence on the parcel of land.
      4.   Dogs shall be allowed outdoors only on the owner's property and
secured within a fenced perimeter.
      5.   All owners keeping dogs under provisions of this section shall come
into compliance with subsection (A) of this section through attrition.
   (C)   Fees: The owner of a dog licensed under the provisions of subsection
(B) of this section shall be required to pay an annual fee for each dog over
that number authorized in subsection (A) of this section. The Farmington City
Council shall, by resolution, establish the amount of the fee required. (Ord.
019-746, 5-20-2019)
6-2-15: DOG SHELTERS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or maintain on the premises which
he/she occupies any type of shelter or other place of confinement in which
animals are kept closer than ten feet (10') of the adjoining property line.
(Ord. 019-746, 5-20-2019)
6-2-16: RABIES VACCINATION:
No person shall own, keep or harbor any dog over the age of four (4) months
within the city unless the dog had been vaccinated for rabies. (Ord. 019-746,
5-20-2019; amd. Ord. 023-777, 12-4-2023, eff. 1-1-2024)
CHAPTER 3
KENNELS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: License Required
6-3-3: Records Kept
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
herein ascribed to them:
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any place where four (4) or more dogs (male or female) over
six (6) months of age, or more than ten (10) cats (male or female) over six (6)
months of age, or more than ten (10) ferrets (male or female) over six (6)
months of age, or any combination thereof, not including offspring under seven
(7) months of age, are commercially kept, boarded, trained or offered for sale
except when located in a pet shop or animal clinic. A kennel may include
secured outdoor runs and/or play areas.
KENNEL, RESIDENTIAL HOBBY: Any building, structure, enclosure or premises
located on a residentially used property where four (4) or more dogs (male or
female) over six (6) months of age are kept or maintained. (Ord. 019-746, 5-20-
2019)
6-3-2: LICENSE REQUIRED:
   (A)   Requirements: Any person desiring to operate and maintain a commercial
kennel or residential hobby kennel within the City shall be required to obtain
the required license therefor from the Clerk of the City. The license
application shall state the name and address of the kennel owner, the type of
kennel, the location of the kennel, and the number of animals proposed to be
kept. The license to operate a commercial or residential hobby kennel shall be
for one year and expire on December 31 of each year. The fee for said license
shall be as set by the Council from time to time.
In addition to the license required herein, the applicant for a commercial
kennel license and residential hobby kennel must also secure a conditional use
permit when locating in the A-1 (residential hobby kennels only), B-1, B-3, I-
1, or IP Zoning Districts.
Each kennel license shall be posted conspicuously on the premises where said
kennel is located.
Every kennel shall be kept at all times in a clean and sanitary condition and
the animals shall be reasonably restrained from annoying the neighborhood or
the general public. The Council, or its authorized representative, shall have
the right of entry for inspection of said premises at all reasonable hours.
   (B)   Standards: Commercial kennels are subject to the following standards:
      1.   An enclosed exercise area shall be provided to accommodate the
periodic exercising of dogs boarded at the facility. Any outdoor exercise area
must be fenced to a minimum height of four feet (4'). In cases where the
fencing is not one hundred percent (100%) opaque a three foot (3') vegetative
buffer must also be provided along said fence. Any outdoor exercise area must
be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition at all times. All solid waste
must be removed a minimum of once per day and the solid waste shall not be
allowed to enter a stormwater facility or storm sewer. No dogs shall remain
unattended in an outdoor exercise area.
      2.   In a multi-tenant building, the kennel facility must have a
ventilation system that prohibits the transmission of odors or organisms
between tenant bays. The ventilation system must be capable of completely
exchanging internal air at a rate of 1.00 cfm/square foot of floor space per
area dedicated for the keeping of animals exclusive of offices pursuant to
chapter 1346 of the Minnesota State Building Code, as may be amended. These
requirements can be met by the submission of an air exchange analysis,
acceptable to the City from a Minnesota licensed contractor or engineer
confirming with said standards, otherwise, the facility ventilation system must
be completely separate and independent of other tenant space within the
building. Facility air temperature must be maintained between sixty degrees
Fahrenheit (60°F) and eighty degrees Fahrenheit (80°F).
      3.   If located within a multi-tenant building, soundproofing shall be
installed on all common walls between the commercial kennel bay and adjacent
bays within the building.
      4.   Wall finish materials below forty eight inches (48") in height shall
be impervious, washable materials such as sealed masonry, ceramic tile, glass
board, or marlite. Floor finish shall be sealed concrete or other approved
impervious surface. Liquid tight curbing, at least six inches (6") high, shall
be installed along shared walls for sanitary confinement and water wash down
cleaning.
      5.   A sufficiently sized room/cage separate from the facility areas
shall be provided to adequately separate sick or injured animals from healthy
animals.
      6.   Animal wastes shall be immediately cleaned up with solid wastes
being enclosed in a container of sufficient construction to eliminate odors and
organisms. (Ord. 019-746, 5-20-2019)
6-3-3: RECORDS KEPT:
Each licensee hereunder shall keep a record of each and every animal harbored
in said kennel, stating the name, sex and breed of each such animal, the date
of acquisition and the disposition of said animal and any further information
as the Council may from time to time determine necessary. (Ord. 019-746, 5-20-
2019)
FA192   6-4.txt
CHAPTER 4
ANIMALS; FOWL
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definition
6-4-2: Keeping Animals Within City
6-4-3: Herding Within City Limits
6-4-4: Running At Large
6-4-5: Unlawful To Drive Animals Into City
6-4-1: DEFINITION:
The term "rural district" as used in this chapter shall include all platted and
unplatted land presently within the limits of the city, or hereinafter annexed
thereto, which are not developed for commercial, industrial or urban
residential purposes. Land in rural districts must be open, rural in character
and maintained generally in farm crops, pasture land, seeded or diverted
acreage. The term "urban district" as used in this chapter shall include all
other lands within the limits of the city, or such lands hereinafter annexed
thereto, which are not within the rural districts. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-4-2: KEEPING ANIMALS WITHIN CITY:
   (A)   Definitions: The following terms shall have the following meanings:
   FARM ANIMALS: Cattle, hogs, bees, sheep, goats, chickens, turkeys, horses,
and other animals commonly accepted as farm animals in the state of Minnesota.
   HOUSE PETS: Animals such as dogs, cats, birds (not including pigeons,
chickens, geese, turkeys or other domestic fowl), gerbils, hamsters, rabbits
(including those normally sheltered outside of the principal structure), and
tropical fish, that can be contained within a principal structure throughout
the entire year, provided that the containment can be accomplished without
special modification to the structure that would require a building permit,
excluding wild or domesticated wild animals.
   (B)   House Pets: The keeping of house pets is a permitted accessory use in
all zoning districts.
   (C)   Farm Animals: The keeping of farm animals, with the exception of
chickens on urban residential lots which are regulated under section
10-6-29 of this code, is a permitted accessory use in all zoning districts
provided:
      1.   The minimum lot size is two and one-half (21/2) acres.
      2.   Farm animals may not be confined in a pen, feedlot or building
within one hundred feet (100') of any residential dwelling not owned or leased
by the keeper of the animals, unless:
            (a)    The animals were kept prior to the adoption of this section,
or
            (b)    The animals were kept after the adoption of this section but
prior to the existence of a residence within one hundred feet (100').
   (D)   Prohibition: With the exception of the keeping of animals allowed by
subsections (B) and (C) of this section, no other animals are allowed except by
interim use permit as regulated under the provisions of section
10-3-7 of this code.
   (E)   Commercial Purposes: Animals may only be kept for commercial purposes
if authorized in the zoning district where the animals are located.
   (F)   Nuisance Animals: Animals may not be kept if they cause a nuisance or
endanger the health or safety of the community.
   (G)   Animal Enclosures: Animal enclosures shall be subject to the accessory
structure requirements of section
10-6-6 of this code. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-4-3: HERDING WITHIN CITY LIMITS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to herd, hold, pasture or detain any herd,
drove or band of sheep, horses, cattle or any other animals within the urban
districts of the city. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-4-4: RUNNING AT LARGE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow any horse, mare, colt,
mule, cow, bull, calf, jack, jenny, goat or hog belonging to him/her or under
his/her control, to run at large within the urban districts of the city. (Ord.
015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-4-5: UNLAWFUL TO DRIVE ANIMALS INTO CITY:
If any person drives or causes to be driven any animal or animals into the
urban districts of the city, with the intention or the purpose of having such
animal impounded, he/she shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 015-
698, 6-15-2015)
Fa192   06-05.txt
CHAPTER 5
CURFEW
SECTION:
6-5-1: Curfew Regulations
6-5-1: CURFEW REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Curfew Imposed: It is unlawful for any juvenile age seventeen (17)
years and under to be present in any public place within Dakota County between
the hours listed below:
            DAKOTA COUNTY JUVENILE CURFEW ORDINANCE
 
Under 12 years of age Sunday - Thursday   9:00 P.M. - 5:00 A.M.
                      Friday and Saturday 10:00 P.M. - 5:00 A.M.
Age 12-14             Sunday - Thursday   10:00 P.M. - 5:00 A.M.
                      Friday and Saturday 11:00 P.M. - 5:00 A.M.
Age 15-17             Sunday - Thursday   11:00 P.M. - 5:00 A.M.
                      Friday and Saturday Midnight - 5:00 A.M.
 
   (B)   Exceptions: The restrictions of subsection (A) of this section do not
apply when the minor is:
      1.   Accompanied by the minor's parent, guardian or other person having
the minor's lawful care, custody or control.
      2.   Returning home by direct route from and within thirty (30) minutes
after a school activity, an activity of a religious or supervised voluntary
association, fraternal and social clubs, etc. or other community events.
Examples of such events shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
dances, community celebrations and carnivals.
      3.   In place of returning home from such place connected with and
required by some legitimate business, trade, profession or occupation in which
said minor is permitted by law to be engaged.
      4.   In a motor vehicle with parental consent for normal travel.
      5.   Upon an emergency errand or other legitimate business directed by
the minor's parent, guardian or other adult having lawful custody of the minor.
      6.   On the sidewalk or boulevard of his or her residence.
   (C)   Responsibility Of Parents, Etc.: No parent, guardian or other adult
having custody and control of a minor under eighteen (18) years of age shall
knowingly permit the minor to violate the provisions of subsection (A) of this
section.
   (D)   Responsibility Of Other Persons: Whenever the owner or person in
charge or control of any place of amusement, entertainment, refreshment or
other place of business shall find any person under the age of eighteen (18)
years in such place in violation of subsection (A) of this section, he/she
shall immediately order such person to leave, and if such refuses to leave, the
owner or person in charge shall immediately inform the police department of the
violation.
   (E)   Penalties: Any person under the age of eighteen (18) years on a street
or other place in violation of subsection (A) of this section shall be ordered
to go home immediately. After investigation, if the police department
determines that court action should be initiated, the minor shall be dealt with
in accordance with juvenile court law and procedure. Any such minor who is
convicted of a violation of this section after the case has been referred for
prosecution in the trial court under Minnesota statutes, and any person who is
convicted of a violation of any provision of subsection (C) of this section is
guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed
one hundred dollars ($100.00). (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
fa192   6-6.txt
CHAPTER 6
NUISANCES
SECTION:
6-6-1: Public Nuisances Declared
6-6-2: Abatement
6-6-1: PUBLIC NUISANCES DECLARED:
Whoever by his/her act or failure to act upon a legal duty intentionally does
any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance and may be
punished as provided in this code:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public; or
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders danger of passage on any public
street, alley, sidewalk or other right of way used by the public; or
   (C)   Is guilty of any other act or action declared by law to be a public
nuisance and for which no sentence is specifically provided; or
   (D)   Shall throw or deposit upon any street, alley, sidewalk or other right
of way used by the public any bottle, glass, can, paper container, garbage or
other rubbish or refuse of any nature whatsoever upon such public street,
alley, sidewalk or upon any other public or privately owned land adjacent
thereto without the owner's consent. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-6-2: ABATEMENT:
When any dwelling or any building, structure, excavation, business pursuit,
matter or thing in or about a dwelling, or the lot on which it is situated, or
the plumbing, sewerage, drainage, light or ventilation thereof, is in the
opinion of the board of health, in a condition or in effect dangerous or
detrimental to life or health (as set forth in section
6-6-1 of this section), the board of health may declare that the same, to the
extent that it may specify, is a public nuisance, and shall order the same to
be removed, abated, suspended, altered or otherwise improved or purified as the
order shall specify.
The board of health may also order or cause any dwelling or excavation,
building, structure, sewer, plumbing pipe, passage, premises, ground, matter or
thing in or about a dwelling, or the lot on which it is situated, to be
purified, cleansed, disinfected, removed, altered, repaired, or improved.
If any order of the board of health issued under authority of the provisions
hereof is not complied with, or so far complied with as may be regarded as
reasonable, within fifteen (15) days after the service of said notice, or
within such shorter time as may be designated, then such order may be executed
by the board of health, through its officers, agents, employees or contractors
and the cost thereof assessed against said property as provided by law. (Ord.
015-698, 6-15-2015)
FA192   6-7.txt
CHAPTER 7
WEEDS
SECTION:
6-7-1: Weed Defined
6-7-2: Notice To Destroy
6-7-3: Action Upon Noncompliance
6-7-4: Charge A Lien
6-7-1: WEED DEFINED:
For the purpose of this chapter, the term "weeds" means noxious weeds as
defined by State law. All weeds or growing grasses upon any platted lot in the
City which are in excess of one foot (1'), measured from the ground to the tip
of the leaf may be determined by the weed inspector to be dangerous to the
health, safety and order of the City. This chapter is not intended to address
the aesthetics of property but rather intended to mitigate any pest, health and
sanitation concerns. The weed inspector shall have the final decision on
deeming a property as a nuisance. The following exceptions of this chapter are:
   (A)   Slope Areas: Slopes that are steeper than three to one (3:1) may be
left in a natural state.
   (B)   Ponds, Wetlands, And Natural Areas: Areas in which native vegetation
is designated to be left in and managed in a natural state. Property adjacent
to parks, wetlands/ponds, unplatted land and other City designated areas may be
left in a natural state and managed appropriately for the type of vegetation
that is present. Property owners shall not be allowed to mow City property,
including that surrounding ponds and wetlands.
   (C)   Natural Areas On Platted Lots: Natural areas will be allowed on
platted lots in backyards from the most rear corner of the home subject to a
six foot (6') setback from the property lines, except in the case where the
natural area is adjacent to another natural area or fence. A natural area
contains "native grasses" meaning those species of perennial grasses other than
those designated as noxious weeds by the Minnesota Department of Agriculture in
1505.0730 and 1505.0740.
   (D)   Undeveloped Platted Lots: Any platted lot within the City that is
undeveloped and does not share a common property line with any developed lot(s)
which contains a principal structure may be left in a natural state.
Noxious weeds must be removed regardless of where they exist. It shall be
unlawful for an owner, lessee or occupant of any land described above to allow,
permit or maintain a "nuisance" on any such land or along the sidewalk, street
or alley adjacent thereto. (Ord. 019-744, 4-1-2019)
6-7-2: NOTICE TO DESTROY:
The City Administrator, or authorized agent, is hereby authorized and empowered
to notify, in writing, the owner of any such lot, place or area within the
City, or the agent of such owner, to cut, destroy and/or remove any such weeds
or grass found growing, lying, or located on such owner's property or upon the
sidewalk or boulevard abutting same in violation of this chapter or State law.
Such notice shall be sent by mail, addressed to said owner as shown on County
Property Tax records, at his/her last known address and posted on the property.
(Ord. 019-744, 4-1-2019)
6-7-3: ACTION UPON NONCOMPLIANCE:
Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any owner or agent, so notified, to
cut, destroy and/or remove such weeds or grass within seven (7) days after
mailing or serving and posting the written notice provided for in section
6-7-2 of this chapter, the City Administrator is hereby authorized and
empowered to pay for the cutting, destroying and/or removal of such weeds or
grass or to order the removal by the City. (Ord. 019-744, 4-1-2019)
6-7-4: CHARGE A LIEN:
When the City has effected the removal of such obnoxious growth or has paid for
its removal, the actual cost thereof, plus accrued interest as provided by law,
and penalty as set forth from time to time by resolution of the City Council,
if not paid by such owner prior thereto, shall be charged to the owner of such
property on the next regular tax bill forwarded to such owner by the City, and
said charge shall be due and payable by said owner at the time of payment of
such tax bill, pursuant to the provisions of Minnesota Statutes Annotated
429.101. (Ord. 019-744, 4-1-2019)
FA192   6-8.txt
CHAPTER 8
SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
6-8-1: Definitions
6-8-2: Equipment
6-8-3: Operation Restricted
6-8-4: General Operation
6-8-5: Hours Of Operation
6-8-6: Violation
6-8-7: Exemption
6-8-1: DEFINITIONS:
OPERATE: To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile.
OPERATOR: Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
PERSON: Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its
agencies and subdivisions, and any body of persons, whether incorporated or
not.
RIGHT OF WAY: The entire strip of land on each side of a street or highway in
which the public owns the fee or an easement for roadway purposes.
ROADWAY: That portion of a street or highway improved or designed for vehicular
travel including the shoulder.
RURAL DISTRICT: Includes all platted and unplatted land within the city limits
which are not developed for commercial, industrial or residential purposes.
SAFETY OR DEADMAN THROTTLE: A device which, when pressure is removed from the
engine throttle, causes the motor to be disengaged from the drive train.
SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice and
steered by skis or runners.
STREET OR HIGHWAY: The entire width between boundary lines that is open to the
public for vehicular traffic.
URBAN DISTRICT: All lands in the city which are developed for commercial,
industrial and residential use. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-8-2: EQUIPMENT:
It is a violation of this chapter for any person to operate a snowmobile any
place within the city unless it is equipped with the following:
   (A)   Standard muffler which is in good working order and is in constant
operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise. No person shall use a muffler
cutout, bypass, straight pipe or similar device on the snowmobile motor and the
exhaust system shall not emit or produce a sharp popping or crackling sound.
This requirement shall not apply to an organized race or similar competitive
event as provided under Minnesota Statutes Annotated section 84.871, as
amended.
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any conditions of operation.
   (C)   At least one headlamp having a minimum candle power to reveal persons
and vehicles at a distance of at least one hundred feet (100') ahead during
hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. Such headlamp shall be
so aimed that glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming
snowmobile operator. At least one red taillight, having a minimum candle power
to be plainly visible from a distance of five hundred feet (500') during hours
of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. The lights must be turned on
and operating when the vehicle is operated between the hours one-half (1/2)
hour after sunset to one-half (1/2) hour before sunrise, at times of reduced
visibility and when on any roadway.
   (D)   Reflective material of a minimum area of at least sixteen (16) square
inches mounted on each side forward of the handlebars so as to reflect light at
a ninety degree (90°) angle.
   (E)   A safety or deadman throttle in operating condition.
   (F)   Any sled, trailer, or other device must be towed with a rigid hitch
and tow bar.
   (G)   Any sled, trailer, or other device being towed by a snowmobile during
hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions must be equipped with
visible reflective materials mounted on each side and at the rear of the sled,
trailer, or device which has at least the minimum intensity values set forth in
Minnesota rules 6100.5700 subpart 2, item B, as amended. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-
2015)
6-8-3: OPERATION RESTRICTED:
It is a violation of this chapter for any person to operate a snowmobile upon
any portion of the city in an urban district within the right of way of any
street, avenue, alley, pedestrian trail, bikeway or sidewalk, nor within or on
any other public park or property within the city except as follows:
   (A)   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway
provided the crossing is made at a ninety degree (90°) angle to the direction
of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents a quick
and safe crossing. The snowmobile must be brought to a complete stop before
crossing the shoulder or edge of the street or highway and the driver yields
the right of way to all oncoming traffic which constitutes an immediate hazard.
   (B)   Snowmobiles may be operated upon the alleys of the city for the
purpose of traveling from an urban district and likewise upon returning from a
rural district to an urban district. On such trips between districts, the most
direct route to the operator's base of operation must be utilized. Where no
alley is available, snowmobiles may be operated upon the right hand side of
such street or right of way and in the same direction as the traffic, keeping
as close to the curb or shoulder as possible. Snowmobiles shall proceed in
single file when traveling on alleys or roadways and shall travel at a speed no
greater than ten (10) miles per hour.
   (C)   Snowmobiles are not allowed on pedestrian trails or bike paths unless
the trail or path is posted with signs authorizing the use of snowmobiles.
   (D)   It is unlawful for the following persons to operate on streets or
highways, or to make a direct crossing of a street or highway within the city
as the operator of a snowmobile: 1) any person fourteen (14) years of age or
older if the person does not have in immediate possession a valid snowmobile
safety certificate as required and issued by the commissioner or a valid
driver's license, or 2) any person under fourteen (14) years of age.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person under fourteen (14) years of age to
operate a snowmobile on any public land, public easements, or water or trails
unless accompanied by one of the following listed persons on the same or
accompanying snowmobile: the person's parent, legal guardian, or other person
eighteen (18) years of age or older. However, a person twelve (12) years of age
or older may operate a snowmobile on public lands, public easements, and waters
or trails if the person has in immediate possession a valid snowmobile safety
certificate issued by the commissioner.
   (F)   The provisions of Minnesota Statutes Annotated sections 84.81 through
84.88, which are not otherwise modified by this chapter, are hereby adopted and
made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein.
   (G)   It is unlawful to operate a snowmobile within the city without a valid
snowmobile qualification indicator if one is required under Minnesota Statutes
Annotated 84.862.
   (H)   It is unlawful for any person under the age of eighteen (18) to
operate or ride a snowmobile within the city without wearing protective
headgear that complies with standards established by the commissioner of public
safety, unless the person is otherwise exempt under Minnesota Statutes
Annotated section 84.872, subdivision 1a. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-8-4: GENERAL OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or operate any snowmobile in the
following unsafe or harassing ways:
   (A)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under the
circumstances and at anytime to operate at a rate of speed greater than ten
(10) miles per hour in any residential area.
   (B)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another or to cause injury or damage thereto.
   (C)   To intentionally drive, chase, run over or kill any animal, wild or
domestic, with a snowmobile.
   (D)   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which
disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons.
   (E)   Operation of a snowmobile shall not be permitted within one hundred
feet (100') of any sliding area or skating rink. Direct access to and from the
area shall be at a speed no greater than ten (10) miles per hour.
   (F)   On property not owned by the person, except where otherwise allowed by
law, without the written permission of the owner, occupant, or lessee of such
lands. Written permission may be given by a posted notice of any kind or
description that the owner, occupant, or lessee prefers, so long as it
specifies the kind of vehicles allowed such as "snowmobiles allowed", or
similar words.
   (G)   To operate a snowmobile after any law enforcement officer has ordered
it to stop by use of an audible or visual signal, interfere with or endanger
the officer or any other person or vehicle, or increase speed or attempt to
flee or elude the officer. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-8-5: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to eight o'clock (8:00) A.M.,
Sunday through Thursday and one o'clock (1:00) A.M. to eight o'clock (8:00)
A.M. on other days, no snowmobile shall be operated within the MUSA (municipal
urban service area) except in coming to or leaving from the residence of the
snowmobile operator on the most direct route and at a reduced speed (10 miles
per hour). (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-8-6: VIOLATION:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, unless a different penalty is specified by state statute. (Ord.
015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-8-7: EXEMPTION:
The city council shall have the authority to designate snowmobile trails within
the park areas. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
FA192   6-9.txt
CHAPTER 9
PARK REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-9-1: Definition
6-9-2: Defacing Or Destroying Property
6-9-3: Littering Prohibited
6-9-4: Park Hours
6-9-5: Open Fires Prohibited
6-9-6: Prohibited Activities
6-9-7: Animals In Parks
6-9-8: Camping
6-9-9: Motor Vehicles
6-9-10: Reservations
6-9-11: Rules
6-9-12: Violation
6-9-1: DEFINITION:
Public park, or parks, is any land owned or leased by the city for the use of
the public for active or passive recreation. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-9-2: DEFACING OR DESTROYING PROPERTY:
No person shall injure, damage, destroy, diminish or impair the value of any
public park in the city including, but not limited to, buildings, structures,
signs, trees, shrubs or vegetation. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-9-3: LITTERING PROHIBITED:
No person shall litter, cast or throw rubbish, trash or garbage in any public
park including any adjacent water area within the city, but shall place such
materials in proper receptacles. Where receptacles are not provided in the
public park, all such rubbish, trash or garbage shall be carried away from the
park by the person responsible for its presence. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-9-4: PARK HOURS:
   (A)   No person shall be in any public park, and no person shall remain in
or leave any vehicle in any public park, between the hours of eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of the following morning.
   (B)   Special permission for groups of persons to remain in any public park
for a longer period than those designated herein may be obtained from the city
council.
   (C)   Duly designated city employees may enter the public parks at any time
in the performance of their duties. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-9-5: OPEN FIRES PROHIBITED:
No person shall build a fire in any area in a public park. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-
2015)
6-9-6: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
   (A)   Sell or offer for sale any article in any park; provided, that
refreshments or other articles may be sold by the city or by persons authorized
by the city to do so.
   (B)   Post, paste, fasten, paint or affix any placard, bill, notice or sign
upon any structure, tree, stone, fence, thing or enclosure in any park without
the written permission of the city park and recreation department.
   (C)   No person shall distribute or display within any park any circulars,
cards or announcements, printed or not, for events other than those sponsored
by or with the participation or endorsement of the city when the intention of
such activity is to promote a commercial enterprise.
   (D)   Gambling, excessive use of alcoholic beverages, or abusive,
boisterous, profane or indecent language, or conduct, in any public park is
prohibited.
   (E)   No person shall disobey any responsible lawful order or direction of
any park employee or police officer.
   (F)   No person involved in any park event or in any use of the public parks
shall commit an unfair discriminatory practice, deny another person access to,
admission to, utilization of, or benefit from any such events or park use
because of race, sex, color, creed, religion or national origin.
   (G)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use a golf club to hit, chip,
drive or otherwise propel a golf ball or other object in a city park.
   (H)   No glass containers may be brought in and used in parks. (Ord. 015-
698, 6-15-2015)
6-9-7: ANIMALS IN PARKS:
   (A)   No person shall kill, trap, hunt, pursue, or in any manner disturb or
cause to disturb any wildlife; provided, however, that unless prohibited by
resolution of the council, fishing shall be permitted.
   (B)   No owner of a dog shall permit his/her dog to be at large in city
parks, but shall keep such dog under restraint at all times. "Restraint" as
used herein shall be deemed to mean controlled by a leash not exceeding six
feet (6') in length. The owner must dispose of all feces and have in said
possession at all times, feces disposal equipment or device.
   (C)   No person shall ride, lead or permit a horse, pony, donkey or other
similarly sized animal in any public park except in those areas where such
animals are specifically allowed by resolution of the council. (Ord. 015-698,
6-15-2015)
6-9-8: CAMPING:
No person shall be permitted to camp overnight in a park, nor shall anyone be
permitted to park a camper or camp trailer in a park parking lot except during
the hours of operation. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-9-9: MOTOR VEHICLES:
   (A)   Designated Areas: No vehicle shall be operated on any city park or
trail except in the designated parking or travel areas.
   (B)   Parking Hours: No vehicles shall be parked in the parking areas later
than or before the hours of operation.
   (C)   Operation Upon Lakes Or Ponds: No person shall operate any type of
motor powered vehicle upon any lake or pond within the city.
   (D)   Exception: This section shall not apply to city maintenance or
emergency vehicles or to work being performed in city parks and under city
control or direction. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-9-10: RESERVATIONS:
Any group wishing to reserve the use of a shelter for a particular purpose
shall request such a date through the online reservation or at city hall. (Ord.
015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-9-11: RULES:
   (A)   Rules and regulations may be adopted from time to time by the city
council governing the use and enjoyment of the parks.
   (B)   Any person who violates a rule or regulation so posted may be excluded
from the use of the park and may, in addition, be prosecuted for a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Emergency rules and regulations may be implemented by the park and
recreation department in unique, unusual or hazardous situations. They shall
remain in effect for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days. (Ord. 015-698, 6-
15-2015)
6-9-12: VIOLATION:
Violation of any of the terms or conditions of this chapter shall constitute a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
fa192   6-10.txt
CHAPTER 10
PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
SECTION:
6-10-1: Definitions
6-10-2: Violations
6-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this title, unless the context otherwise requires, the terms
specified have the meanings ascribed to them.
LEGAL GUARDIAN: A person appointed guardian or given custody of a minor by a
court of competent jurisdiction of the state, but does not include a person who
is a foster parent or given custody of a minor as a result of corrections or
welfare custody.
MINOR: A person who is above the age of eleven (11) years but not yet eighteen
(18) years of age. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-10-2: VIOLATIONS:
The parent or legal guardian of an unemancipated minor residing with such
parent or legal guardian shall be presumed, in the absence of evidence to the
contrary, to have failed to have exercised proper parental responsibility and
said minor shall be deemed to have committed the acts described below with the
knowledge and permission of the parent or guardian, in violation of this title,
upon the occurrence of the events described in subsections (A), (B) and (C) of
this section:
   (A)   An unemancipated minor residing with said parent or legal guardian
shall either be adjudicated to be in violation of any ordinance, law or statute
prohibiting wilful or malicious acts causing injury to a person or property, or
shall have incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official agency
resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law or
statute prohibiting wilful or malicious acts causing injury to a person or
property; and
   (B)   Said parent or legal guardian shall have received a written notice
thereof, either by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, or
by personal service, with a certificate of personal service returned, from the
police department of the city of Farmington following said adjudication or
nonjudicial sanction; and
   (C)   If at any time within one year following receipt of the notice set
forth in subsection (B) of this section, said minor is either adjudicated to be
in violation of any ordinance, law or statute as described in subsection (A) of
this section, or shall incurred nonjudicial sanctions from another official
agency resulting from an admission of guilt of violation of any ordinance, law
or statute as described in subsection (A) of this section. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-
2015)
FA192   6-11.txt
CHAPTER 11
GRAFFITI CONTROL
SECTION:
6-11-1: Purpose
6-11-2: Definitions
6-11-3: Unlawful Conduct Regarding Creation Of Graffiti
6-11-4: Removal Of Graffiti
6-11-5: City Police To Identify
6-11-6: Hearing
6-11-7: Notice To Owner
6-11-8: Costs To Be Assessed
6-11-9: Graffiti Abatement Civil In Nature
6-11-10: Penalty
6-11-1: PURPOSE:
   (A)   The council finds that graffiti is an increasing problem in the city.
The council finds that quick removal of graffiti may assist in preventing
encouragement of the defacement of property.
   (B)   The council further finds that graffiti creates a condition of blight
which can result in the deterioration of property values and is inconsistent
with the city's property maintenance goals and aesthetic standards. In
addition, unless graffiti is removed, other properties soon become the targets
of graffiti.
   (C)   The council hereby declares its intention to minimize and to quickly
remove graffiti to limit its adverse impact on city youth and neighborhoods.
Graffiti is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and a public health and
safety hazard for purposes of Minnesota Statutes Annotated section 429.101,
subdivision 1 and section 429.021, subdivision 1(8). (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-11-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the terms defined in this section shall have the
following meaning ascribed to them:
GRAFFITI: Any writing, printing, marks, signs, symbols, figures, designs,
inscriptions, or other drawings which are scratched, scrawled, painted, drawn,
or otherwise placed on any surface of objects such as buildings, walls, fences,
sidewalks, curbs, trees, rocks, or other permanent structures or objects on
public or private property or the interior surfaces of those parts of buildings
accessible to the general public and which have the effect of defacing the
property. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-11-3: UNLAWFUL CONDUCT REGARDING CREATION OF GRAFFITI:
It shall be unlawful for any person to intentionally place graffiti on any
surface or the interior surfaces of those parts of buildings accessible to the
general public located on public or private property except with the permission
of the person in lawful ownership or possession of such property and in
accordance with the requirements of the city's sign ordinance. A person who
violates this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-
2015)
6-11-4: REMOVAL OF GRAFFITI:
   (A)   A property owner may ask the city to remove graffiti from the owner's
property before being ordered to do so following the abatement procedure set
forth in sections
6-11-5 through
6-11-8 of this chapter. If the city agrees to remove the graffiti, the city
shall have the property owner or its designated agent sign a release of
liability form and a consent form authorizing the city or its agents to enter
onto the property. The property owner shall be liable for any costs which the
city incurs in removing the graffiti. The city may collect the costs as a
special assessment pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Annotated 429.101,
subdivision 1, if the property owner fails to reimburse the city upon request.
   (B)   If an owner does not remove graffiti and does not ask the city to
remove graffiti from the owner's property before being ordered to do so, the
city may remove the graffiti by following the abatement procedure set forth in
sections
6-11-5 through
6-11-8 of this chapter. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-11-5: CITY POLICE TO IDENTIFY:
   (A)   Based upon information received from the public or upon police
observation, the city police shall investigate and identify graffiti. After the
police department has verified the existence of graffiti, the police chief
shall send a letter to the property owner by certified mail informing the
property owner about the graffiti and requesting the property owner to remove
the graffiti within a reasonable period of time which shall be less than thirty
(30) days, based upon consideration of weather conditions and other relevant
factors. The police department shall verify whether the graffiti has in fact
been removed.
   (B)   If the police department finds that the graffiti has not been removed
within the time allotted, the department shall contact the city clerk, who
shall schedule a public hearing. The city clerk shall notify the affected
property owner of the hearing date, the preliminary findings that graffiti
exists on the owner's property and that the council may after the hearing order
the removal of the graffiti by the property owner or the city's department of
public works, and if said department has to remove the graffiti, the costs will
be assessed against the owner's property. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-11-6: HEARING:
   (A)   At a hearing before the council, the council shall receive evidence
from the police department and from any other persons with knowledge as to the
existence of graffiti. The property owner shall be entitled to be heard on all
matters relating to graffiti and the process of removal. The existence of
graffiti must be proven by a preponderance of the evidence.
   (B)   If the council finds that graffiti exists, the council shall direct
its removal in accordance with sections
6-11-7 and
6-11-8 of this chapter. The department of public works may authorize private
contractors to handle graffiti removal. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-11-7: NOTICE TO OWNER:
   (A)   Contents Of Notice: In the event the council finds that graffiti
exists, the city attorney shall mail a written order to the owner of the
subject real property, addressed to the owner's last known address. The written
order shall:
      1.   Contain a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification.
      2.   Inform the owner that the council has found graffiti exists on the
owner's property.
      3.   Request that the owner remove or obliterate the graffiti within a
reasonable time as determined by the council.
      4.   Inform the owner that a motion for summary enforcement of the order
will be made to the district court for Dakota County unless corrective action
is taken within the time allotted, or unless an answer is filed within twenty
(20) days from the date of service of the order. An answer to the order must be
served in the manner of an answer in a civil action and must specifically deny
such facts in the order as are in dispute.
   (B)   Service Of The Order: The written order shall be served upon the owner
of record or the owner's agent if an agent is in charge of the building or
property, and upon the occupying tenant, if there is one, and upon all
lienholders of record, in the manner provided for service of a summons in a
civil action. If the owner cannot be found, the order shall be served upon the
owner by posting it at the main entrance to the building or upon the structure,
and by four (4) weeks' published notice in the official newspaper of the city
or any legal newspaper in the county.
   (C)   Filing Of Order: A copy of the order with proof of service shall be
filed with the court administrator of the district court for Dakota County not
less than five (5) days prior to the filing of a motion for enforcement of the
order.
   (D)   Default: If no answer is served, the city may move the court for the
enforcement of the order. If such motion is made the court may, upon the
presentation of such evidence as it may require, affirm or modify the order and
enter judgment accordingly, fixing a time after which the city may proceed with
the enforcement of the order and specifically authorizing the city to enter the
property to remove or abate the graffiti.
   (E)   Contested Cases: If an answer is filed and served, further proceedings
in the action shall be governed by the rules of civil procedure for the
district courts. If the order is sustained following the trial, the court shall
enter judgment and shall fix a time after which the graffiti must be removed in
compliance with the original order as filed or modified by the court. If the
order is not sustained, it shall be annulled and set aside. The court
administrator shall cause a copy of the judgment to be mailed forthwith to
persons upon whom the original order was served.
   (F)   Enforcement Of Judgment: If the owner of record fails to comply with
the judgment by failing to remove the graffiti within the time prescribed, the
city may enter the property and remove the graffiti as set forth in the
judgment. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-11-8: COSTS TO BE ASSESSED:
   (A)   In the event the city removes the graffiti, the costs of the removal
may be a lien against the real estate on which the building or structure is
located, or recovered by obtaining a judgment against the owner of the real
estate on which the building or structure is located. A lien may be levied and
collected as a special assessment in the manner provided by Minnesota Statutes
Annotated sections 429.061 to 429.081, but the assessment is payable in a
single installment.
   (B)   The city shall keep an accurate account of the expenses incurred in
carrying out the order and of all other expenses incurred in connection with
its enforcement including filing fees, service fees, publication fees, attorney
fees, appraiser fees, witness fees, expert witness fees and traveling expenses
incurred by the city from the time the order was originally made. The city
shall report its action under the order with a statement of expenses incurred
to the court for approval and allowance. The court shall by its judgment
certify the deficiency in the amount so allowed to the municipal clerk for
collection. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-11-9: GRAFFITI ABATEMENT CIVIL IN NATURE:
Section
6-11-7 or
6-11-8 of this chapter relating to the abatement of graffiti, shall not be
treated as misdemeanors nor shall they be criminal in nature. (Ord. 015-698, 6-
15-2015)
6-11-10: PENALTY:
Any person who violates any provision of section
 6-11-3 of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding seven hundred dollars ($700.00) or by
imprisonment for a period not exceeding ninety (90) days or both, plus, in
either case, the costs of prosecution. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
FA192   6-12.TXT
CHAPTER 12
ARCHERY DEER HUNTING
SECTION:
6-12-1: Intent
6-12-2: Definitions
6-12-3: Authorization For Archery Deer Hunting Seasons
6-12-4: Survey
6-12-5: Archery Deer Hunting Season
6-12-6: Application
6-12-7: Permit Fees
6-12-8: Lottery
6-12-9: Violations
6-12-10: Civil/Criminal Liability
6-12-11: Effective Date
6-12-1: INTENT:
It is the intention of the city to protect the public safety interests of the
city and the conservation interests of wildlife within the city by authorizing
archery deer hunting within urban and public property areas of the city.
Nothing in this chapter is intended to supersede the hunting regulations of the
state or the rights of individual property owners outside of those areas within
the city. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-12-2: DEFINITIONS:
PUBLIC PROPERTY: For purposes of this chapter, "public property" shall be
defined as property owned by the city of Farmington and held as unimproved park
land and as designated annually by the Farmington park and recreation
commission.
URBAN AREA: That area of land within the city limits of the city of Farmington
designated as metropolitan urban service area (MUSA) by the metropolitan
council. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-12-3: AUTHORIZATION FOR ARCHERY DEER HUNTING SEASONS:
Each year on or before August 1, the city administrator, in conjunction with
the police chief, shall determine and report to the city council if the public
safety and conservation interests of the city justify allowing an archery deer
hunting season in the urban and public property areas of the city in the
upcoming season. The city council will make a determination whether the city
will authorize the urban hunt and issue permits for public property hunting for
the upcoming season. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-12-4: SURVEY:
The city administrator is authorized to prepare a survey card to be distributed
to all municipal permit holders to determine the number of deer taken, the
location the deer were taken, the sex of the deer taken and any other
information the city administrator feels is relevant to make informed decisions
on the management of the deer population. Failure to return the survey card
shall be grounds to deny a municipal archery hunting permit for the next
season. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-12-5: ARCHERY DEER HUNTING SEASON:
Persons may hunt deer by means of bow and arrow in the city during the regular
Minnesota state archery deer hunting season if they hold a valid Minnesota
archery deer hunting license and either written permission of a private
property landowner or a Farmington municipal archery hunting permit under the
conditions defined below:
   (A)   Permits:
      1.   Municipal archery deer hunting permits shall be issued to hunt deer
on authorized public property. Crossbows may be used only as authorized by
state regulations.
      2.   No city permit shall be issued to hunt deer on any parcel of public
land that is less than five (5) acres in size.
      3.   Archery deer hunting on private property may be authorized within
the municipal urban service area of the city subject to restrictions of this
chapter and the rules of the department of natural resources.
      4.   No archery hunting shall be permitted within three hundred feet
(300') of any dwelling, place of business, school, place of worship or other
structure likely to be occupied by people, or any other person.
      5.   Municipal archery hunting permits issued pursuant to this chapter
are valid only when all the requirements of this code and the state hunting
regulations are complied with.
      6.   Archery deer hunting authorized under this chapter is valid only on
the public property specified on the permit or the private property of the
landowner who has granted specific, written permission under this chapter. It
is the responsibility of the hunter to know the boundaries of the land on which
they are authorized to hunt.
      7.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the owner of private property
from imposing additional conditions on the granting of permission to hunt,
including regulating the dates or times the permit is valid; provided, that no
restrictions shall conflict with any state law or city ordinance.
      8.   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit a private landowner or the
city administrator or his/her designee from revoking permission to archery deer
hunt at any time.
   (B)   Suspension And Revocation: A municipal permit issued under this
chapter is subject to suspension in the interest of public safety or revocation
for a violation of any of the requirements of this chapter. Suspension or
revocation shall take effect immediately upon notice.
      1.   Suspension Notice: A municipal permit may be suspended for a
specified period of time by the city administrator or his/her designee. The
permit holder shall be notified either in person or by certified mail of the
suspension. Notice shall include the specific public safety concern and the
length of the suspension.
      2.   Revocation Notice: A permit holder shall be notified of the
temporary revocation of the permit in person by the city administrator or his/
her designee or by certified mail at the address listed on his/her archery deer
hunting application. Notice of temporary revocation of the permit shall include
notification that the permit is immediately revoked and that the hunter has the
right to a hearing with the city administrator within ten (10) business days
for a determination as to whether a violation of this chapter occurred. If the
permittee does not request such a hearing within ten (10) days, the city
administrator shall make such determination as deemed appropriate to reinstate
or permanently revoke the archery deer hunting permit.
      3.   Hearing: If the permit holder requests a hearing for a determination
as to whether the permit should be revoked, the hearing shall be held at a date
no more than two (2) weeks after the demand for such hearing. Any records of
reports from the police department, animal control officers, or officers of the
Minnesota department of natural resources shall be admissible without further
foundation. After considering all the evidence, the city administrator shall
determine whether or not to revoke the permittee's municipal archery deer
hunting permit.
      4.   Ineligibility: Any person who has had their municipal archery deer
hunting permit revoked pursuant to this chapter is ineligible to obtain a
permit for the next hunting season. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-12-6: APPLICATION:
Application shall be made for a Farmington municipal archery hunting permit on
a form provided by the city administrator or his/her designee. (Ord. 015-698,
6-15-2015)
6-12-7: PERMIT FEES:
The city clerk shall charge an administrative fee for processing the
application and issuing the permit authorized by this chapter in accordance
with the annual fee resolution adopted by the city council. (Ord. 015-698, 6-
15-2015)
6-12-8: LOTTERY:
Municipal archery deer hunting permits shall be issued by lottery of all
eligible applicants. The lottery shall be conducted by the city council at its
regular public meeting during the month of August. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-12-9: VIOLATIONS:
Violation of any of the terms of a permit issued under this chapter is a
misdemeanor. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-12-10: CIVIL/CRIMINAL LIABILITY:
Nothing in this chapter shall authorize the use of any archery equipment in a
manner which will endanger any human being or property, and no license or
permit granted hereunder shall in any way relieve the person acting hereunder
from civil liability for any damage resulting from such use. Violation of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor. (Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
6-12-11: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This chapter shall take effect immediately upon its passage and publication.
(Ord. 015-698, 6-15-2015)
FA192   6-13.txt
CHAPTER 13
SEXUAL OFFENDER RESIDENCE LOCATION RESTRICTIONS
SECTION:
6-13-1: Definitions
6-13-2: Location Of Residence
6-13-3: Penalties
6-13-4: Exceptions
6-13-5: Renting Real Property In Violation Of This Chapter
6-13-1: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall be defined as stated:
DESIGNATED OFFENDER: Any person who has been convicted, adjudicated, or
committed for a designated sexual offense, as defined herein, or who is
required to register as a predatory offender pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
243.166 (2016 or as amended) in which the victim of the offense was less than
sixteen (16) years of age at the time of the offense or for which the offender
has been categorized as a "Level III sex offender" under Minnesota Statutes.
DESIGNATED SEXUAL OFFENSE: A conviction, adjudication of delinquency, or
commitment under Minnesota Statutes chapter 253B involving any of the following
offenses: Minnesota Statutes sections: 609.342; 609.343; 609.344; 609.345;
609.352; 609.365; 617.23; 617.246; 617.247; 617.293; successor statutes; or a
similar offense from another state.
RESIDENCE (OR RESIDE): A place where a person abides, dwells, inhabits or stays
for more than fourteen (14) days in the aggregate during a 12-month period or a
place where the person routinely abides, dwells, inhabits or stays for four (4)
or more consecutive or nonconsecutive days in any month. Residence does not
require the person to have an ownership interest in or a formal rental or lease
agreement for the residence. A hotel, motel, or other commercial lodging
establishment, boarding house or shelter, and group home may be deemed a
person's residence under this chapter. (Ord. 017-726, 6-5-2017)
6-13-2: LOCATION OF RESIDENCE:
It is unlawful for any designated offender to establish residence or otherwise
reside within one thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of any of the following
uses (hereinafter referred as "protected zones"):
A public place of worship that is maintained and controlled by a religious
organization/body and at which regular educational programs are provided (e.g.,
Sunday school).
Adult establishment (sexually oriented) businesses.
Licensed child care center (excluding in-home daycare providers).
Public park or playground.
School for pre-K through Grade 12, public or private.
For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the requirement
shall be measured by following a horizontal line from any property line of the
lot or parcel on which the subject residence is located to the nearest property
line of subject use of a prohibited zone identified above.
The Police Chief shall maintain an official map showing approximate locations
in which a designated offender is prohibited to reside, as defined by this
chapter. The Police Chief shall update the map at least annually to reflect any
changes in the location of prohibited zones. The actual measurement of minimum
distance separation between the residence and the use within the prohibited
zone shall govern. (Ord. 017-726, 6-5-2017)
6-13-3: PENALTIES:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to the penalties thereof as provided in this
Code. Each day a person maintains a residence in violation of this chapter
constitutes a separate violation. (Ord. 017-726, 6-5-2017)
6-13-4: EXCEPTIONS:
A designated offender residing within a prohibited zone as described in this
chapter is not in violation of this chapter if any of the following applies:
   (A)   The designated offender established the residence and reported and
registered the residence pursuant to Minnesota Statutes sections 243.166,
243.167, or successor statute, prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   The designated offender is under the age of eighteen (18) and resides
with a parent or legal guardian.
   (C)   The school, park, playground, place of worship, licensed child care
facility, or adult establishment (sexually oriented) business within one
thousand five hundred feet (1,500') of the designated offender's proposed
residence commenced operation after the designated offender established
residence and reported/registered the residence pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
governing sex offender registration requirements.
   (D)   The designated offender owned and resided at the residence at the time
of committing the designated sexual offense and retains ownership of the
residence at all times relevant to application of this chapter. (Ord. 017-726,
6-5-2017)
6-13-5: RENTING REAL PROPERTY IN VIOLATION OF THIS CHAPTER:
It is unlawful to let or rent any place, building, trailer or other structure,
or part thereof, with the knowledge that it will be used as a residence by any
person prohibited from establishing such residence pursuant to this chapter, if
such place, structure, or part thereof, trailer or other conveyance, is located
within a prohibited zone described in this chapter.
A property owner's failure to comply with provisions of this chapter shall
constitute a violation of this chapter. (Ord. 017-726, 6-5-2017)
CHAPTER 14
TARGETED PICKETING
SECTION:
6-14-1: Definitions
6-14-2: Purpose
6-14-3: Prohibited Activity
6-14-4: Violation/Penalty
6-14-5: Severability
6-14-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this section, the term “targeted residential picketing”
means:
 
            (A) Marching, standing or patrolling by one (1) or more persons directed
            solely at a particular residential building in a manner that adversely
            affects the safety, security, or privacy of an occupant of the building; or
TARGETED    (B) Marching, standing or patrolling by one (1) or more persons which
RESIDENTIAL prevents an occupant of a residential building from gaining access to or
PICKETING:  exiting from the property on which the residential building is located; or
            (C) Standing, marching, patrolling or picketing by one (1) or more persons
            focused in front of or adjacent to a particular residential dwelling without
            the consent of that dwellings’ occupants. (Ord. 021-753, 1-4-2021)
 
6-14-2: PURPOSE:
The city has an interest in the protection of residential privacy, the
wellbeing and tranquility of the home, and protecting citizens from unwanted
speech when they are a captive audience within their homes. The city council
finds that, without resorting to targeted residential picketing, ample
opportunities exist for those otherwise engaged in targeted residential
picketing to exercise constitutionally protected freedoms of speech and
expression. (Ord. 021-753, 1-14-2021)
6-14-3: PROHIBITED ACTIVITY:
No person shall engage in targeted residential picketing within the city. (Ord.
021-753, 1-4-2021)
6-14-4: VIOLATION/PENALTY:
Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 021-753, 1-4-2021)
6-14-5: SEVERABILITY:
Should any section, subdivision, clause or other provision of this chapter be
held to be invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall
not affect the validity of the chapter as a whole, or of any part thereof,
other than the part held to be invalid. (Ord. 021-753, 1-4-2021)
TITLE 7
HEALTH AND SANITATION
CHAPTER 1
SOLID WASTE COLLECTIONS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Definitions
7-1-2: Collection By City
7-1-3: Exceptions
7-1-4: Permit Required
7-1-5: Rules And Regulations
7-1-6: Containers
7-1-7: Storing Of Refuse
7-1-8: Antiscavenging
7-1-9: Fees
7-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Any term used in this chapter but not defined herein shall have the meaning
defined in Dakota County Ordinance 110, Solid Waste management Section 2.00, as
amended.
ASHES:                             Residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke
                                   or other combustible materials.
                                   The kitchen, food preparation, dishwashing,
BACK-OF-HOUSE:                     and storage areas of a commercial generator
                                   or large event venue with organics that are
                                   not accessed by customers or the public.
                                   Tree limbs, twigs, branches and shrubbery up
BRUSH:                             to a maximum of four inches (4") in
                                   diameter.
COMMERCIAL:                        Has the same meaning as commercial
                                   generator.
COMMERCIAL GENERATOR:              An entity that is not a residential source
                                   generator.
                                   Waste building materials, packaging and
CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS:               rubble resulting from construction,
                                   remodeling, and repair.
                                   Waste resulting from the demolition of man-
                                   made structures, and other similar materials
                                   specifically approved by the Dakota County
DEMOLITION WASTE:                  Environmental Resources Department .
                                   Demolition waste excludes asbestos and other
                                   materials specifically prohibited by this
                                   ordinance and the Dakota County
                                   Environmental Resources Department.
                                   Discarded material resulting from the
GARBAGE:                           handling, processing, storage, preparation,
                                   serving and consumption of food.
                                   Any refuse, sludge, spent solutions or other
                                   waste material or combinations of refuse,
                                   sludge, spent solutions or other waste
                                   materials in solid, semi-solid, liquid or
                                   contained gaseous form which, because of its
                                   quantity, concentrations, or chemical,
                                   physical or infectious characteristics may:
                                   (a) cause or significantly contribute to an
                                   increase in mortality or an increase in
                                   serious irreversible or incapacitating
HAZARDOUS WASTE:                   reversible illness; or (b) pose a
                                   substantial present or potential hazard to
                                   human health or the environment when
                                   improperly treated, stored, transported or
                                   disposed of, or otherwise managed.
                                   Categories of hazardous waste materials
                                   include, but are not limited to, explosives,
                                   flammables, oxidizers, poisons, irritants
                                   and corrosives. Hazardous waste does not
                                   include source, special nuclear, or by-
                                   product material as defined by the Atomic
                                   Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
                                   Clothes washers and dryers, dishwashers,
                                   water heaters, residential furnaces, garbage
MAJOR APPLIANCES:                  disposals, trash compactors, conventional
                                   and microwave ovens, ranges and stoves, air
                                   conditioners, dehumidifiers, refrigerators,
                                   and freezers.
                                   Garbage, refuse, and other solid waste from
                                   residential, commercial, industrial, and
                                   community activities that the generator of
                                   the waste aggregates for collection but does
                                   not include auto hulks, street sweepings,
MIXED MUNICIPAL SOLID WASTE (MSW): ash, construction debris, mining waste,
                                   sludges, tree and agricultural wastes,
                                   tires, lead-acid batteries, motor or vehicle
                                   fluids and filters, and other materials
                                   collected, processed, and disposed of as
                                   separate waste streams.
                                   Any entity, individual, partnership,
PERSON:                            corporation or organization of a public or
                                   private nature, and any representative
                                   thereof.
                                   Materials that are suitable for separating
                                   from solid waste for the purpose of
                                   recycling including, but not limited to,
                                   paper, glass, plastics, metals, automobile
                                   oil, batteries, etc. Refuse derived fuel or
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS:              other material that is destroyed by
                                   incineration is not a recyclable material.
                                   Dakota County approves and publishes a list
                                   of recyclable material types that represents
                                   the minimum haulers must accept and
                                   generators must recycle.
REFUSE:                            Something rejected or discarded as worthless
                                   or useless.
                                   Garbage, refuse, sludge from a water supply
                                   treatment plant or air containment treatment
                                   facility, and other discarded waste
                                   materials and sludges, in solid, semisolid,
                                   liquid, or contained gaseous form, resulting
                                   from industrial, commercial, mining and
                                   agricultural operations, and from community
                                   activities, but does not include hazardous
                                   waste, animal waste used as fertilizer,
                                   earthen fill, boulders, rock, sewage sludge,
SOLID WASTE:                       solid or dissolved material in domestic
                                   sewage or other common pollutants in water
                                   resources, such as silt, dissolved or
                                   suspended solids in industrial waste water
                                   effluents or discharges which are point
                                   sources subject to permits under section 402
                                   of the federal Water Pollution Control Act,
                                   as amended, dissolved materials in
                                   irrigation return flows, or source, special
                                   nuclear, or by-product material as defined
                                   by The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as
                                   amended.
                                   Nonhazardous solid waste that is not mixed
                                   solid waste, ash, brush, recyclable material
                                   or yard waste and requires collection
                                   systems other than that normally required
SPECIAL WASTE:                     for mixed municipal solid waste. Special
                                   wastes include, but are not limited to:
                                   major appliances, furniture, tires,
                                   demolition waste, waste lumber, electrical
                                   appliances.
WHITE GOODS:                       Major appliances such as refrigerators,
                                   ovens, freezers, washers and dryers.
                                   Garden wastes, leaves, lawn cuttings, weeds,
                                   shrub and tree waste, and prunings generated
YARD WASTE:                        at residential, commercial, or public
                                   properties. (Ord. 089-214, 6-5-1989; amd.
                                   Ord. 097-405, 10-20-1997; Ord. 015-694, 3-
                                   16-2015; Ord. 021-756, 2-1-2021)
 
7-1-2: COLLECTION BY CITY:
Minnesota Statutes Annotated section 115A.941 identifies requirements regarding
the collection of solid waste. The city shall have authority to make such rules
and regulations concerning individual collection and disposal of refuse, and
relating to the hauling of refuse over city streets and public ways by outside
collectors as may be deemed necessary from time to time. All refuse accumulated
in the city shall be collected, conveyed and disposed of by the city. (Ord.
006-547, 1-17-2006; amd. Ord. 021-756, 2-1-2021)
7-1-3: EXCEPTIONS:
No person shall collect, convey over any of the streets or alleys of the city,
or dispose of, any refuse accumulated in the city, except as follows:
   (A)   Exception for Temporary Discontinuance: Under this chapter the city
may grant a temporary discontinuance of service up to six (6) months for
properties that will be vacant. Typical vacancy circumstances where a
discontinuance will be approved include seasonal vacancies, extended home sales
(foreclosures), owner death, property fire, and structure demo. The owner shall
submit an application for the discontinuance of service on forms provided by
the City. An administrative fee will be charged to the utility bill for the
Temporary Discontinuance as identified in the City's Fee Schedule.
   (B)   Exception For Outside Collectors: This chapter shall not prohibit
collectors of refuse from outside the city from hauling such refuse over city
streets; provided such collectors comply with the provisions of this chapter
and with any other governing laws.
   (C)   Exception For Construction Projects: This chapter shall not prohibit
the removal and/or disposal of refuse produced by a construction project by
private haulers. Any private hauler removing and /or disposing of refuse under
this exemption must first obtain a hauler permit as required by this chapter.
The city building official may restrict the length of time that a container may
stay on a construction site and may require its removal if the building
official determines that the container is not being used for the purpose of
disposing of construction refuse.
   (D)   Exception For Large Commercial/Industrial Uses: An owner of a
commercial or industrial business, including restaurants, may request
contracting collection service from a private hauler if the city determines it
cannot service the user due to the waste characteristics. The owner shall apply
for this exemption on forms provided by the City which will be reviewed and
approved by the city administrator or designee. Any private hauler removing
and/or disposing of refuse under this exemption must first obtain a hauler
permit as required by this chapter.
   (E)   Exception For Recyclable Materials: The city may allow a private
hauler to collect and convey recyclable materials upon recommendation of the
city administrator or designee.
   (F)   Special Wastes: An owner of a commercial or industrial business may
request collection service from a private contractor for special waste. (Ord.
006-547, 1-17-2006; amd. Ord. 007-568, 1-16-2007; Ord. 021-756, 2-1-2021)
7-1-4: PERMIT REQUIRED:
Any private hauler removing and/or disposing of refuse under an exception noted
in 7-1 of this chapter must first obtain a permit issued by the city
administrator or designee.
   (A)   The permit shall be valid for a period of one year, or for such length
of time as determined by the city administrator or designee, from the date of
issuance and is not transferable to another hauler or to another construction
site.
   (B)   The permit application shall include the following:
      1.   The name, address and telephone number of the hauler.
      2.   The location and owner of the construction site.
      3.   The nature of the refuse to be removed and/or disposed of.
      4.   The intended storage or disposal site for the refuse.
      5.   Other information as may be required by the city administrator or
designee.
   (C)   The permit fee shall be established by resolution of the city council.
   (D)   The city administrator or designee is authorized and empowered to
revoke any permit upon failure of the holder of said permit to comply with any
provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   A special recycling activities permit shall specify the hours of
operation, location, and duration that the collection vehicle will be on site,
plus requirements for supervision. Institutional and government cleanup days
are permitted under this section with city council approval of date, hours of
operation and location. (Ord. 006-547, 1-17-2006; amd. Ord. 007-568, 1-16-2007;
Ord. 021-756, 2-1-2021)
7-1-5: RULES AND REGULATIONS:
The following rules and regulations shall apply in preparing refuse for
collection:
   (A)   Collection of MSW shall be provided on a weekly basis. Additional
weekly pick ups may be made upon request of the owner for a fee as set in the
city’s annual fee schedule. Collection of recyclable materials shall comply
with Dakota Ordinance 110, Solid Waste Management, Section 15.08(K) and weekly
collection of yard waste will be provided seasonally. (Ord. 008-595, 12-15-
2008)
   (B)   Dakota County Ordinance 110, Solid Waste Management, Section 3.01
Generator Requirements, as may be amended, is hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this chapter:
 
FOR QUICK REFERENCE
Dakota County Ordinance 110
SECTION 3.00 GENERAL PROVISIONS
3.01   GENERATOR REQUIREMENTS.
A.   The following waste may not be placed for collection with mixed municipal solid
waste:
   1.   Source separated recyclables
   2.   Source separated organics, unless the source separated materials are
contained in a durable compostable bag which will be separated for composting or
anaerobic digestion.
   3.   Wastes listed in section 6.05(F)
   4.   Effective July 1, 2020, the designated list of recyclables generated by
commercial entities and public entities subject to Minnesota Statute 115A.151
   5.   Effective January 1, 2021, the designated list of recyclables generated by
all commercial entities
   6.   Effective January 1, 2021, the designated list of recyclables generated by
residential sources
   7.   Organics generated by large commercial organics generators as detailed in
16.04
B.   The following waste may not be placed for collection in a recycling collection
container:
   1.   Municipal solid waste
   2.   Infectious waste
   3.   Wastes listed in section 6.05(F)(2), except for telephone directories
   4.   Designated list of contaminants
 
C.   Yardwaste:
   1.   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this ordinance for any person to
dispose of yard waste in mixed municipal solid waste.
   2.   It shall be a violation of this ordinance for any person to place for
collection in Dakota County, yard waste, unless it is: (1) placed in paper bags or
other biodegradable containers that will decompose within the time period that the
yard waste placed in the container(s) decomposes; or (2) placed in a reusable
container that the hauler or person supplies to collect the yard waste.
 
D.   Scavenging:
   1.   Scavenging of recyclable materials is prohibited. It shall be unlawful and a
violation of this ordinance for any person other than employees of the county in the
scope of their employment or the collector or hauler for the property to collect,
remove, or dispose of recyclable materials after said materials have been placed or
deposited for collection.
 
E.   DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE. Unless otherwise provided in this ordinance, no person
shall, within Dakota County:
   1.   Intentionally dispose of any solid waste except at a solid waste facility
licensed by the county.
   2.   Use or allow property or land under the person's control to be used for
intermediate or final disposal of solid waste unless licensed by the county board to
do so.
   3.   Burn solid waste, with the exception of clean wood or small amount of paper
to start a recreational fire.
 
F.   MANAGEMENT OF SOLID WASTE. Prior to disposal, all solid waste must be managed
to:
   1.   Prevent litter
   2.   Protect waste from vector populations
   3.   Minimize odors
   4.   Protect from the elements
   5.   Prevent public health nuisances
 
   (C)   Dakota County Ordinance 110, Solid Waste Management, Section 16.03
Multi-Unit Residential Buildings (A) 1-4, as may be amended, is hereby adopted
by reference and made a part of this ordinance
 
FOR QUICK REFERENCE
Dakota County Ordinance 110
16.03 MULTI-UNIT BUILDINGS
A. By January 1, 2020, Multi-Unit Residential Building owners and managers who manage
municipal solid waste through a common contract shall:
   1.   Ensure recycling service is provided to all residents.
   2.   Comply with section 16.05.
   3.   Provide recycling containers with a weekly service capacity of at least 0.1
cubic yards per dwelling unit.
   4.   Ensure that the collection schedule and container capacity are sufficient to
contain all the recyclables collected and organics (if collected) from the building
and public spaces and to prevent overflowing containers.
   5.   Submit a completed annual report on a form prescribed by the department by
January 31 of each year.
 
 
   (D)   Dakota County Ordinance 110, Solid Waste Management, Section 16.05
Trash, Recycling, and Organics Requirements, as may be amended, is hereby
adopted by reference and made a part of this ordinance
 
FOR QUICK REFERENCE
Dakota County Ordinance 110
16.05    TRASH, RECYCLING AND ORGANICS REQUIREMENTS.
A.   Property owners, managers, and event sponsors shall:
   1.   By the dates established in 3.01 (A) (4) and (5) ensure the designated list
of recyclables are collected for recycling.
   2.   Provide a collection schedule and containers adequate to meet the
requirements of this ordinance. Container locations must include but are not limited
to: indoor and outdoor locations, public spaces, private spaces, and communal
spaces.
   3.   Ensure all trash collection containers or collection chutes are co-located
within ten feet (10') from a recycling container or recycling chute. Each container
or chute must have equal access.
   4.   Ensure all trash, recyclables, and organics collection containers are
clearly labeled or marked as required in 16.06.
   5.   Ensure all trash is delivered to a facility licensed or permitted to accept
the waste, recyclables are delivered to a recycling facility, and organics are
delivered for food recovery or to a composting facility or anaerobic digester.
   6.   Provide solid waste abatement messaging in print or electronic form to each
employee, tenant, multi-unit resident, student, volunteer, and housekeeping and
custodial contractors. Messaging must be documented and follow the solid waste
abatement messaging published on the Dakota County Website and occur:
      a.   At least annually.
      b.   Within thirty (30) days of any substantive change to generator's waste
program.
      c.   Within thirty (30) days of a new hire or new tenant.
 
   (E)   Dakota County Ordinance 110, Solid Waste Management, Section 16.06
Labeling, as may be amended, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this ordinance
 
FOR QUICK REFERENCE
Dakota County Ordinance 110
16.06    LABELING.
A.   Property owners and managers shall:
   1.   Ensure each trash, recycling, and organics container has a visible sign or label
that is consistent with the Department's solid waste abatement messaging including:
      a.   Indicates which materials are acceptable in designated containers by using
the term "Trash" or "Recycling" or "Recycle" or "Organics." Any other waste types must
be clearly labeled with materials accepted.
      b.   Shows images of acceptable materials.
      c.   Is color-coded: blue for recycling; green for organics; and, gray or black
for trash.
      d.   Is visible and legible to users.
      e.   Includes preparation instructions where applicable,
   2.   Replace a sign or label if it becomes damaged, faded, illegible, or when images
or text conflict with the designated list of organics or the designated list of
recyclables.
   3.   This section goes into effect on:
      a.   January 1, 2020 for all containers purchased after December 31, 2019.
      b.   January 1, 2022, for containers purchased prior to January 1, 2020.
 
   (F)   The preparation, placement, and location of containers shall be set by
city policy.
   (G)   The collection schedule shall be set by city policy.
   (H)   Noncompliance with any provision of this section shall be deemed
grounds for the city to refuse collection.
   (I)   No portion of this code is intended to conflict with the rules of the
MPCA or the ordinances and rules of Dakota County. (Ord. 021-756, 2-1-2021)
7-1-6: CONTAINERS:
Containers for MSW shall be provided by the city and containers for recyclable
and yard waste materials shall be provided by the city's contractor. The cost
of replacement or repair of the containers shall be paid by the person assigned
the container if it is determined by the city that the action was necessary
because of negligence on the owner's part. The city shall have the authority to
refuse collection services for failure to comply herewith. (Ord. 008-595, 12-
15-2008; amd. Ord. 021-756, 2-1-2021)
7-1-7: STORING OF REFUSE:
   (A)   No person shall place any refuse in any street, alley or other public
place, or upon any private property whether owned by such person or not, within
the city except it be in a proper container for collection or under express
approval granted by the city. Nor shall any person place any refuse in a proper
container not owned by them unless they have written permission of the
individual owning that proper container. Nor shall any person throw or deposit
any refuse in any stream or other body of water.
   (B)   Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on any premises is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to remove any existing
accumulation of refuse within ten (10) days after the effective date hereof
shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit anywhere within the city
any refuse in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited by the elements
upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or other public place, or into
any occupied premises within the city. (Ord. 006-547, 1-17-2006; amd. Ord. 021-
756, 2-1-2021)
7-1-8: ANTISCAVENGING:
Ownership of recyclable materials set out for collection shall remain with the
person who set out the materials until removed by the city or its approved
contractor. Until the recyclable materials are removed by the city or its
approved contractor, the person who set out the materials is totally
responsible for their proper preparation, handling and storage. It shall be
unlawful for any person who is not authorized by the city to take or collect
recyclable materials set out for collection within the city. (Ord. 006-547, 1-
17-2006; amd. Ord. 021-756, 2-1-2021)
7-1-9: FEES:
The fees for refuse collection and noncompliance with section
7-1-4 of this chapter and the method of payment thereof, shall be set from time
to time by resolution of the city council. All persons or businesses which
produce refuse shall be billed at a rate set by resolution of the city council
except those exemptions cited under subsections
7-1-2(C) through (F) of this chapter. (Ord. 006-547, 1-17-2006; amd. Ord. 021-
756, 2-1-2021)
CHAPTER 2
HEALTH NUISANCES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Offensive Odors
7-2-2: Dead Animals; Offal; Filth
7-2-3: Contamination Of Water
7-2-4: Encroachment Of Streets
7-2-5: Offensive Business
7-2-6: Unauthorized Establishment Of Cemeteries
7-2-7: Offensive Premises
7-2-8: Livestock
7-2-9: Factories; Smoke And Odors
7-2-10: Unwholesome Products; Unlawful Sale
7-2-11: Notice To Owner
7-2-12: Charge A Lien
7-2-1: OFFENSIVE ODORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to negligently conduct any business or use
any premises so as to create such offensive smell as may taint the air, and
render it unwholesome or disagreeable to others. (1970 Code)
7-2-2: DEAD ANIMALS; OFFAL; FILTH:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit the carcass of any animal, or any
offal, filth, or noisome substance to be collected, deposited, or to remain in
any place, to the prejudice of others, or to throw or deposit any offal or
other offensive matter or liquid liable to become offensive, or the carcass of
any animal, in any watercourse, lake, pond, spring, well, sewer or ditch, or to
deposit any night soil, dead animal, or other filthy, offensive, or noisome
substance upon any lot, street, alley, park or other place. (1970 Code)
7-2-3: CONTAMINATION OF WATER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to corrupt or render unwholesome or impure
the water of any spring, river, pond, or lake, to the injury or prejudice of
others. (1970 Code)
7-2-4: ENCROACHMENT OF STREETS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or encroach upon public
highways, streets, alleys or public ways within the city except as allowed in
subsection
8-1-5(A) of this code. (Ord. 015-694, 3-16-2015)
7-2-5: OFFENSIVE BUSINESS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to establish, maintain and carry on any
offensive or unwholesome business within the city or within one mile of the
limits thereof.
It shall be unlawful for any person to locate, without first having obtained
permission of the council so to do, any packinghouse, renderies, tallow
chandleries, bone factories, soap factories, tanneries, or any establishment
liable to produce offensive or unwholesome smells, within the city and within
the distance of one mile of the limits thereof. (Ord. 015-707, 10-19-2015)
7-2-6: UNAUTHORIZED ESTABLISHMENT OF CEMETERIES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to establish any cemetery within the city
without first having obtained the permission to do so by the city. (Ord. 015-
694, 3-16-2015)
7-2-7: OFFENSIVE PREMISES:
It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any offal, filth, refuse animal
or vegetable matter, which is liable to become putrid, or offensive, or
injurious to health, to remain on any premises used or occupied by him for a
longer period than six (6) hours at any one time, or keep or suffer to be kept
in a foul, offensive, nauseous or filthy condition, any railroad car, building,
yard, grounds and premises. (1970 Code)
7-2-8: LIVESTOCK:
It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or use any railroad car, yard, pen,
place or premises, in or upon which cattle or swine shall be confined, so as to
be offensive to those residing in the vicinity, or so as to annoy others. (1970
Code)
7-2-9: FACTORIES; SMOKE AND ODORS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, continue or use any building or
other place for the exercise of any trade, employment or manufacture which, by
occasioning noxious exhalations, offensive smells, or otherwise, is offensive
or dangerous to the health of individuals, or of the public. (1970 Code)
7-2-10: UNWHOLESOME PRODUCTS; UNLAWFUL SALE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer to sell or dispose of any
impure, unwholesome, adulterated or diluted products or any impure ice which
shall contain filth or any other substance or thing which, when melted, will
render the water impure, or the use of the same unhealthful. It shall further
be unlawful for any person to sell or offer to sell any tainted or unwholesome
meat, vegetables or provisions. (1970 Code)
7-2-11: NOTICE TO OWNER:
If any lot or parcel of property is found to be in violation of this chapter,
the city shall serve or cause to be served upon the owner of record of the lot
or parcel of land which said violation has occurred, a written notice requiring
such owners to comply with the provisions of the chapter. If a person upon whom
such notice is served fails, neglects or refuses to remove or eliminate such
violation within ten (10) days after service of such notice, the city may
proceed to eliminate or correct such violation and the amount of such cost
shall be paid by the owner to the city. (Ord. 083-158, 12-19-1983)
7-2-12: CHARGE A LIEN:
Any unpaid bills for services provided under section
7-2-11 of this chapter, more than thirty (30) days past due will be considered
in default and will be assessed a penalty set forth from time to time by
resolution of the city council. The city council may levy an assessment equal
to such unpaid cost plus penalty against each lot or parcel of land from which
the violation has been eliminated. (Ord. 083-158, 12-19-1983)
CHAPTER 3
DESIGN, INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF ON SITE INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT
SYSTEMS (ISTS)
(Rep. by Ord. 2025-01, 4-21-2025)
CHAPTER 4
SANITARY LANDFILLS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Standards Adopted
7-4-3: Use of Landfills
7-4-4: Fees
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter:
HAZARD WASTES: Any refuse or discarded material or combinations of refuse or
discarded materials in solid, semi-solid, liquid
or gaseous form which cannot be handled by routine waste management techniques
because they pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or
other living organisms because of their chemical, biological or physical
properties. Categories of hazardous waste materials include, but are not
limited to: explosives, flammables, oxidizers, poisons, irritants
and corrosives. Hazardous waste does not include sewage sludge and source,
special nuclear or by-product material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of
1954, as amended.
INTRINSIC HAZARD: "Intrinsic hazard" of a waste means the propensity of the
waste to migrate in the environment, and thereby become exposed to the public,
and the significance of the harm or damage likely to result from exposure of
natural resources or the public to the waste, as a result of such inherent or
induced attributes of the waste as its chemical and physical stability,
solubility, bioconcentratability, toxicity, flammability or corrosivity.
SEWAGE SLUDGE: The solids and associated liquids in Municipal wastewater which
are encountered and concentrated by a Municipal wastewater treatment plant.
Sewage sludge does not include incinerator residues and grit, scum or
screenings removed from other solids during treatment,
SOLID WASTE: Garbage, refuse and other discarded solid materials, except animal
waste used as fertilizer, including solid waste materials resulting from
industrial, commercial and agricultural operations, and from community
activities, but does not include earthen fill, boulders, rock and other
materials normally handled in construction operations, solids or dissolved
material in domestic sewage or other significant pollutants in water resources,
such as silt, dissolved or suspended solids in industrial wastewater effluents,
dissolved materials in irrigation return flows or other common water
pollutants.
7-4-2: STANDARDS ADOPTED:
There is hereby adopted for the control, regulation and maintenance of a
sanitary landfill for the City, the standards adopted by the Pollution Control
Agency of the State of Minnesota, for the control of collection, transportation
and disposal of solid waste for the prevention and abatement of water, air and
land pollution, and all amendments to said standards applicable to the City. 1
 
Notes
1 1. M.S.A., sec. 116.07, subd. 2.
7-4-3: USE OF LANDFILLS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to utilize his land, or allow his land to
be used for the purpose of a depository for solid waste, sludge ash, hazardous
waste, sewage sludge or waste which constitutes an intrinsic hazard without
first securing approval from the City Council. There is hereby adopted for such
control the standards set forth by the Waste Management Act of 1980 of the
State of Minnesota, as set forth in Minnesota Statutes 115A.01 to 115A.72, and
all amendments to said standards hereinafter enacted into law as they may be
applicable to the City.
7-4-4: FEES:
The Council shall establish from time by time, by resolution, a fee for the use
of lands for any of the purposes above stated. (Ord. 083-139, 1-17-83)
CHAPTER 5
RODENT, PEST CONTROL
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Control
7-5-3: Cost
7-5-4: Certificates Of Indebtedness
7-5-5: Pest Control Fund
7-5-6: Regulations; Scope
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the language or context clearly indicates that a different meaning is
intended, the following terms shall be given the meanings herein defined:
DESTRUCTIVE OR NUISANCE ANIMALS: Includes such animals as rats, gophers, mice
and other unprotected wild animals as defined in Minnesota statutes, and acts
amendatory thereof, which the city may designate as dangerous to the welfare of
the inhabitants.
DISEASES: Such dangerous plant diseases, including Dutch elm disease and the
oak wilt fungus, and bee diseases as the city may designate as dangerous to
agriculture, horticulture and forestry.
INSECT PEST: Shall include grasshoppers, cutworms, army worms, European corn
borers, Japanese beetles, European elm bark beetles, native elm bark beetles,
emerald ash borer beetles, larvae or eggs, forest tent caterpillars, and any
other insects which the city may designate as dangerous to crops or the welfare
of the inhabitants of the city. (Ord. 012-643, 5-21-2012)
7-5-2: CONTROL:
The city council is hereby empowered to appropriate money for the control of
insect pests, plant diseases, bee diseases or destructive or nuisance animals.
Such appropriation shall be expended according to technical and expert opinions
and plans as shall be from time to time designated by the council and the work
shall be carried on under the direction and supervision of the council or such
officer as it may designate. (Ord. 012-643, 5-21-2012)
7-5-3: COST:
   (A)   In order to defray the cost of such activities, as set forth in
section
7-5-2 of this chapter, the city council may levy a special tax of not to exceed
two (2) mills in any year in excess of statutory millage limitations, but not
in any event more than fifty cents ($0.50) per capita, and may make such a
levy, where necessary, separate from the general levy and at any time of the
year as the council shall deem necessary.
   (B)   If, because of the prevalence of Dutch elm disease, oak wilt or
emerald ash borer, the council is unable to defray the cost of control
activities authorized by this chapter, the limits set by this section shall be
increased to four (4) mills, but not in any event more than one dollar ($1.00)
per capita. (Ord. 012-643, 5-21-2012)
7-5-4: CERTIFICATES OF INDEBTEDNESS:
To provide funds for such activities in advance of collection of the tax
levies, the council may, at any time after the tax has been levied and
certified to the county auditor for collection, issue certificates of
indebtedness in anticipation of the collection and payment of such tax as
provided by statute. If the council determines that an emergency exists, it may
make appropriations from the proceeds of such certificates for authorized
purposes without complying with statutory provisions requiring that
expenditures be based on a prior budget authorization or other budgeting
requirement. (Ord. 012-643, 5-21-2012)
7-5-5: PEST CONTROL FUND:
The proceeds of any tax levied under this chapter or of any issue of
certificates of indebtedness shall be deposited in the city treasury in a
separate fund to be known as the "pest control fund", and expended only for
purposes authorized by this chapter. If no disbursement is made from the fund
for a period of five (5) years, any monies remaining therein may be transferred
to the general fund. (Ord. 012-643, 5-21-2012)
7-5-6: REGULATIONS; SCOPE:
The city council shall adopt such rules and regulations as they deem necessary
to enforce the control and prevent the spread of plant and animal pests and
diseases. Such regulations shall authorize the appropriate officer the right
and power to enter and inspect any public or private place which might harbor
any pests, as herein defined, and shall require the owner of such premises to
destroy such nuisances. In default of said owner to provide for the abatement
of such pests the city shall provide for such work to be done at the expense of
the owner and such expense shall be a lien upon the property thereof and may be
collected as a special assessment as provided by statute. (Ord. 012-643, 5-21-
2012)
CHAPTER 6
TREE MANAGEMENT AND DISEASE CONTROL
SECTION:
7-6-1: Purpose And Intent
7-6-2: Definitions
7-6-3: Enforcing Officer
7-6-4: Tree Maintenance
7-6-5: Inspections
7-6-6: Abatement Of Nuisance By Owner Of Property
7-6-7: Notice To Owner
7-6-8: Payment Of Costs
7-6-9: Transportation
7-6-10: Penalty
7-6-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
The purpose and intent of this chapter is to promote the health and protection
of trees within the City. (Ord. 019-745, 4-1-2019)
7-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
HAZARDOUS TREE: Any tree in which has structural defects in the roots, stem, or
branches that may cause the tree or tree part to fail, and such failure may
cause property damage or personal injury.
NUISANCE TREE: The following shall constitute a public nuisance at the
recommendation of the tree inspector:
Elm trees (trees of genus Ulmus) infected with the fungus known as the Dutch
elm disease (Ophiostoma ulmi) or which harbors any of the elm bark beetles
Scolytus multistriatus or Hylurgopinus rufipes;
Red oak tree (trees of genus Quercus) or part thereof infected to any degree
with the oak wilt fungus (Ceratocystis fagacearum);
Ash tree, or any part thereof, harboring or infested with emerald ash borer
beetles or larvae or eggs thereof (Agrilus planipennis);
Any dead elm, red oak or ash tree or part thereof, including logs, branches,
stumps, firewood or other elm, oak or ash tree material from which the bark has
not been removed or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide, oak
wilt fungus deterrent or emerald ash borer insecticide.
PRIVATE TREE: Any tree planted on private property within the City, planted
without permission on City property, or within easements. Private trees are
owned and maintained by the property owner. The City may remove any tree on
public property or within an easement as needed to complete work.
PUBLIC TREE: A tree in which is planted on City property by an employee of the
City or designated person. Also includes trees accepted as a donation from
private residents to be planted on City property. Public trees are owned and
maintained by the City. Any tree found planted on public property that was not
planted by the City or accepted as a donation will not be maintained by the
City. (Ord. 019-745, 4-1-2019)
7-6-3: ENFORCING OFFICER:
The tree inspector shall perform the duties set forth in this chapter and shall
enforce the provisions of this chapter. He may have such assistance as the City
Council shall from time to time provide for. (Ord. 019-745, 4-1-2019)
7-6-4: TREE MAINTENANCE:
The natural resources program is designed to prescribe various levels of
maintenance to City boulevard trees located within City boulevards.
   (A)   Planting Requirements: The City will review all planting of trees and
shrubs within "City boulevards", defined as the area between property lines on
either side of all streets, avenues, or ways within the City.
   (B)   Replacement Of Trees:
      1.   The City shall be responsible for removing existing boulevard trees
that have died, are dying, or sustained severe damage. The City shall replace
trees on designated boulevard tree routes as requested by the property owner
and where deemed feasible by the tree inspector.
      2.   The owner of any lot of record may, at his or her own risk, replace
a dead boulevard tree in the front yard of the home outside of side yard
drainage and utility easements at eight feet (8') from the property line in
front yard drainage and utility easements.
   (C)   Trimming Requirements: The City will be responsible for all trimming
of boulevard trees. As these trees are on City property, and are essentially
and legally City property, they must be maintained by the City to ensure that
they are properly trimmed for structural integrity and disease control
measures.
   (D)   Responsibility For Maintenance Of Trees:
      1.   The City will inspect and trim public trees, excluding passive park
and natural areas.
      2.   The homeowner shall be responsible for trimming lot frontage trees
or any other trees on private property or planted by the homeowner.
   (E)   Height Standards: Trimming height standards must maintain a ten foot
(10') clearance above any walkway and fourteen feet (14') above the roadway.
These requirements provide clearance for walkers, snow removal equipment and
solid waste vehicles.
   (F)   Brush From Pruning: The City will not collect any brush resulting from
pruning or removal of trees or brush from private property.
   (G)   Emergency Collection Of Brush: An emergency brush situation would
occur when the public safety officer declares one to exist. Then and only then
will the City collect brush generated by residents on private property, as a
onetime emergency service.
   (H)   Tree Topping: It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person
to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on public property except as
allowed in section 8-6-10 of this Code. "Topping" is defined as the severe
cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than three inches (3") in diameter within
the tree's crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and
disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other causes, or
certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other pruning
practices are impractical may be exempted from this subsection at the
determination of the Natural Resources Division.
   (I)   Pruning, Corner Clearance: Prune branches so that such branches shall
not obstruct the view of any street intersection and so that there shall be a
clear space (subsection E of this section) above the surface of the street or
sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or
broken or decayed limbs that constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
The City shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub on private property
when it interferes with the proper spread of light along the street from a
streetlight or interferes with visibility of any traffic control device or
sign. (Ord. 019-745, 4-1-2019)
7-6-5: INSPECTIONS:
The tree inspector is authorized and empowered to enter upon any lot or parcel
of land in the City at any reasonable hour for the purpose of inspecting any
nuisance or hazardous tree including, elm, oak or ash trees or dead elm, oak or
ash wood situated thereon and may remove such specimens from any such trees as
are required for the diagnosis using current technical procedures, or to
determine whether such tree because it is dead, or substantially dead, may
serve as a breeding place for any carrier of Dutch elm disease, oak wilt fungus
or elm bark beetles, larvae or eggs. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm
or corporation to take any action to prevent the tree inspector from entering
on any lot or parcel of land in the City for the purpose of such inspection or
to interfere with the tree inspector in the performance of any of his duties
provided for under the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 019-745, 4-1-2019)
7-6-6: ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY OWNER OF PROPERTY:
It shall be unlawful for any owner of any lot or parcel of land in the City to
permit or maintain on any such lot or parcel of land any living or dead tree
which is defined as a public nuisance or hazard as defined herein, and it shall
be the duty of the owner of such to promptly spray, remove or otherwise
effectively treat using current technical procedures which are accepted by such
agencies as the Minnesota Department of Agriculture, the Minnesota Department
of Natural Resources or the University of Minnesota so as to destroy and
prevent the spread of Dutch elm disease, oak wilt fungus or elm bark beetles,
larvae or eggs or other regulated tree disease under the supervision and
direction of the tree inspector. The City will notify, in writing, the owners
of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense within
thirty (30) days after the date of service of notice. In the event of failure
of owners to comply with such provisions, the City shall have the authority to
remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the owners' Property Tax
notices. (Ord. 019-745, 4-1-2019)
7-6-7: NOTICE TO OWNER:
If it is determined that such tree is deemed a public nuisance, hazard, or is
infected with Dutch elm disease, oak wilt fungus or elm bark beetles, larvae or
eggs or if the tree inspector determines that any dead, or substantially dead
elm, oak or ash trees, or dead elm, oak or ash wood is a public nuisance as
provided herein, the tree inspector shall serve or cause to be served upon the
owner of record of the lot or parcel of land on which such tree or dead elm,
oak or ash wood is located, a written notice requiring such owner to comply
with the provisions of this chapter. If any person upon whom such notice is
served, fails, neglects or refuses to remove and destroy such elm, oak or ash
tree or dead elm, oak or ash wood within thirty (30) days after service of such
notice, the tree inspector may proceed to remove such tree or dead elm, oak or
ash wood and bill the cost thereof to the owner of such lot or parcel of land
and the amount of such cost shall be paid by the owner to the City.
If the inspector finds that danger of insect infestation or spread of tree
disease is imminent, the inspector may order any treatment or tree removal
determined to be necessary to abate the nuisance.
In all other cases, prior to any treatment or removal, the inspector shall
cause written notice of proposed actions to be sent by regular mail or
personally delivered to the occupant or the owner of the premises. Failure to
give notice shall not invalidate the City's actions. The inspector may order
any treatment or tree removal determined necessary to abate the nuisance. (Ord.
019-745, 4-1-2019)
7-6-8: PAYMENT OF COSTS:
If the City removes from any lot or parcel of land in the City, any infected,
nuisance, hazardous, or dead or substantially dead elm, oak or ash tree or dead
elm, oak or ash wood, which is a public nuisance as provided by this chapter,
the billing of the cost of the work done by the City against the owner of the
lot or parcel of land involved shall be in addition to the penalties imposed
herein for any violation or noncompliance with any provision of this chapter.
Unpaid bills more than thirty (30) days past due shall be considered in default
and will be assessed a penalty as set forth from time to time by resolution of
the City Council. The City Council may levy an assessment equal to such unpaid
cost plus penalty against each lot or parcel of land from which the dead and/or
diseased elm, oak or ash tree or elm, oak or ash wood has been removed. (Ord.
019-745, 4-1-2019)
7-6-9: TRANSPORTATION:
It is unlawful for any person to transport into the City any infected, bark
bearing ash, elm or oak wood determined to be a nuisance. (Ord. 019-745, 4-1-
2019)
7-6-10: PENALTY:
Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this chapter
by failing, neglecting or refusing to comply with the provisions of any notice
herein provided for, within ten (10) days after the service thereof, or, who
shall resist or obstruct in carrying out the provisions of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than three hundred
dollars ($300.00) for each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed on each day during or on which a violation occurs or continues. (Ord.
019-745, 4-1-2019)
FA192   8t.txt
TITLE 8
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREET SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-1-1: Establishment Of Department
8-1-2: Council To Manage System
8-1-3: Street Supervisor
8-1-4: Street/Curb Breaking Permits (Rep. by Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-1-5: Boulevards; Allowable Uses
8-1-6: Dakota County Uniform Street Naming And Addressing System
8-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby established a City Street Department. The City street system as
it now exists or hereafter enlarged or extended shall be operated and
maintained under the provisions of this chapter subject to the authority of the
Council at any time to amend, alter, change and repeal the same. (Ord. 086-184,
1-17-1986)
8-1-2: COUNCIL TO MANAGE SYSTEM:
The Council shall have charge and management of the street system, subject to
such delegation of their authority to City employees. (Ord. 086-184, 1-17-1986)
8-1-3: STREET SUPERVISOR:
For the purposes of this chapter, the "Street Supervisor" is defined as either
the City Engineer or the Municipal Services Director. (Ord. 015-695, 3-16-2015)
8-1-4: STREET/CURB BREAKING PERMITS:
(Rep. by Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-1-5: BOULEVARDS; ALLOWABLE USES:
   (A)   No person shall install any structure or improvement or plant any
materials in the City boulevard except at the person's own risk as follows:
      1.   Boulevard trees as allowed on any lot of record existing on the
original adoption date of this chapter under subsections
10-6-10(F) and (G) of this Code; (Ord. 008-582, 5-5-2008)
      2.   Sidewalks meeting minimum and maximum City design standards;
      3.   Driveways meeting minimum and maximum City design standards;
      4.   Annual or perennial flowers, shrubbery not exceeding three feet (3')
in height;
      5.   Split rail fences;
      6.   Planters not exceeding two feet (2') in height or closer than three
feet (3') from the back of the curb or paved surface;
      7.   Underground sprinkler systems;
      8.   Boulevard sod as specified in subsection
11-5-3(F) of this Code;
      9.   Decorative rock and tree bark.
   (B)   "City boulevard" shall be defined as the area between property lines
on either side of all streets, avenues or ways within the City.
   (C)   Before any digging occurs within a boulevard, the owner or persons
performing the work shall contact Gopher State One Call at least forty eight
(48) hours in advance of beginning the work. (Ord. 095-354, 5-15-1995)
   (D)   The Street Supervisor may remove or cause or order to be removed, any
structure, improvement or planting which is in an unsafe condition, causes a
safety hazard, or interferes with the performance of City operations or any
public utilities. The City shall not be responsible for damages relating to the
removal of such structures, improvement, or plantings. (Ord. 015-695, 3-16-
2015)
8-1-6: DAKOTA COUNTY UNIFORM STREET NAMING AND ADDRESSING SYSTEM:
The "Dakota County Uniform Street Naming and Addressing System Procedural
Manual", one copy of which is on file in the Office of the City Clerk, is
hereby adopted by the City as its method of naming and addressing streets
within the City. The City Engineer is hereby delegated the responsibility for
administering the naming and addressing system. (Ord. 008-592, 11-17-2008)
FA192   8-2.txt
CHAPTER 2
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Establishment Of Department
8-2-2: Council To Manage System
8-2-3: Utilities Supervisor
8-2-4: Application, Permits And Fees
8-2-5: Private Sewer System Unlawful
8-2-6: Connection Requirements
8-2-7: Installations Of Connections
8-2-8: Prohibiting Discharges Into The Sanitary Sewer System And Providing
Penalties For Violations Thereof
8-2-9: Excavation And Repair Work
8-2-10: Right To Enter Land
8-2-11: Sewer Connections Prohibited
8-2-12: Sewer Rental Charges
8-2-13: Sewer Operations Fund
8-2-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF DEPARTMENT:
There is hereby established the city utilities department. The sanitary sewer
systems as they are now constituted or shall be hereafter enlarged or extended
shall be operated and maintained under the provisions of this chapter subject
to the authority of the council at any time to amend, alter, change and repeal
the same. (Ord. 172, 5-5-1969)
8-2-2: COUNCIL TO MANAGE SYSTEM:
The council shall have charge and management of the sanitary sewer system,
subject to such delegation of their authority to other city employees as the
council shall provide. (Ord. 172, 5-5-1969)
8-2-3: UTILITIES SUPERVISOR:
For the purposes of this chapter, the "utilities supervisor" is defined as
either the city engineer or the municipal services director. (Ord. 015-695, 3-
16-2015)
8-2-4: APPLICATION, PERMITS AND FEES:
No person shall make any type of connection to, repair of, or alteration in the
sanitary sewer system except after making an application on a form provided by
the city and receiving a permit issued by the city. The application shall
include the legal description of the property to be served, the uses for which
the connection is requested and the size of the service line to be used.
The utilities supervisor shall examine all applications before a permit is
issued; and after the construction, enlargement, alteration or repair is
complete the utilities supervisor shall be notified. It shall be unlawful to
cover any connecting line until an inspection has been made and such connection
and the work incident thereto has been approved by the utilities supervisor as
a proper and suitable connection.
No permit shall be issued and no connection shall be made with respect to any
sanitary sewer serving the property of any person or occupants of the land,
parcel or premises affected that have not paid or provided for the payment of
the current installment of any special assessment thereon.
All connection costs and charges, permit fees and user charges, together with
the method of payment therefor, shall be established by the council from time
to time, within the discretion of said council. (Ord. 172, 5-5-1969)
8-2-5: PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEM UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to install a private or community sanitary
sewer system within the city limits except in cases where the public sanitary
sewer system is not accessible to the premises where such private systems are
requested. To determine whether or not such public sanitary sewer system is
available for connection each person or corporation desiring to install a
private or community sanitary sewer system must first make application for
connection to a public system. Upon determination of the utilities supervisor
that it is not feasible to connect the applicant's premises to the public
sanitary sewer system then the applicant shall be granted a permit to install a
private sanitary sewer system.
All properties using a private or community sewer system in the city shall
connect to the public sanitary sewer system of the city within two (2) years
after the time that said system is available to the property. (Ord. 094-336, 8-
15-1994)
8-2-6: CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS:
All new service pipes connected to the public sanitary sewer system shall be a
type approved by the city engineer; however, under no circumstances shall such
connection pipes be orangeburg pipe or shall the thickness of the pipe casing
be less than one-eighth (1/8) of an inch. Each principal use shall be connected
separately to the public sanitary sewer system. Existing connection pipes shall
be brought into compliance with this section upon the repair, alteration or
replacement. (Ord. 015-695, 3-16-2015)
8-2-7: INSTALLATIONS OF CONNECTIONS:
All connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be performed by a plumber
licensed to do plumbing by the state; except that nothing in this chapter shall
be construed to prohibit an individual owner from obtaining a permit and
installing such connection by his own labor; provided, however, that said
construction is conducted under the regulations of this chapter and
requirements of the city engineer and the utilities supervisor. (Ord. 172, 5-5-
1969)
8-2-8: PROHIBITING DISCHARGES INTO THE SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM AND PROVIDING
PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS THEREOF:
   (A)   Purpose: In adopting this section, the city council finds that the
discharge of water from any roof, surface, groundwater sump pump, footing tile
or swimming pool or other natural precipitation into the city sewer system
will, and has on numerous occasions in the past, flooded and overloaded the
sewer system to such an extent as to cause significant and grave damage to the
property of large numbers of city residents. Such damage is caused by the
backup of sewage into the living quarters of residents and in addition to other
damage, creates a hazard to health. The city council, therefore, finds it
essential to the maintenance of health, to the minimization of damage to
property and to meet Minnesota pollution control agency and metropolitan
council regulations, that the provisions of this section be strictly enforced
to avoid emergencies in the future. (Ord. 015-695, 3-16-2015)
   (B)   Definition And Method: No water from any roof, surface, groundwater
sump pump, footing tile, swimming pool or other natural precipitation shall be
discharged into the sanitary sewer system. Dwellings and other buildings and
structures which require, because of the infiltration of water into basements,
crawl spaces and the like, a sump pump discharge system shall have a
permanently installed discharge line which shall not at any time discharge
water into the sanitary sewer system, except as provided herein. A permanent
installation shall be one which provides for year round discharge capability to
either the outside of the dwelling, building or structure, or is connected to
the city storm sewer or discharges through the curb and gutter to the street.
It shall consist of a rigid discharge line, without valving or quick
connections for altering the path of discharge, and if connected to the city
storm sewer line, include a check valve and an air gap located in a small
diameter structure as shown in the city's standard plates. (Ord. 093-309, 6-21-
1993)
   (C)   Disconnection: All connections from a roof, surface, groundwater sump
pump, footing tile or swimming pool now connected and/or discharging into the
sanitary sewer system were to be disconnected prior to August 15, 1993. Future
connections were and are prohibited. (Ord. 015-695, 3-16-2015)
   (D)   Inspection: Every person owning improved real estate that discharges
into the city's sanitary sewer system shall allow an employee of the city or
their designated representative to inspect the buildings to confirm that there
is no sump pump or other prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer system.
In lieu of having the city inspect their property, any person may furnish a
certificate from a licensed plumber certifying that their property is in
compliance with this section.
Any person refusing to allow their property to be inspected or refusing to
furnish a plumber's certificate within fourteen (14) days of the date city
employee(s) or their designated representatives are denied admittance to the
property, shall immediately become subject to the surcharge hereinafter
provided for. Any property found to violate this section shall make the
necessary changes to comply with this section and furnish proof of the changes
to the city by August 15, 1993. (Ord. 093-309, 6-21-1993)
   (E)   Future Inspections: Each sump pump connection identified may be
reinspected on a yearly basis. (Ord. 015-695, 3-16-2015)
   (F)   New Home Inspections: All new homes shall be required to have their
sump pump system inspected within thirty (30) days of occupancy and a
certificate of compliance completed.
   (G)   Penalty: A surcharge of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month is
hereby imposed and added to every sewer billing mailed on and after August 15,
1993, to property owners who are not in compliance with this chapter. The
surcharge shall be added every month until the property is in compliance. The
surcharge shall continue to be levied monthly on properties not complying with
this chapter. All properties found during yearly reinspection to have violated
this chapter shall be subject to the one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month
penalty for all months between the two (2) most recent inspections. (Ord. 093-
313, 8-16-1993; amd. Ord. 094-334, 8-1-1994)
8-2-9: EXCAVATION AND REPAIR WORK:
All installation work or repairs of connections to the sanitary sewer system
including grades, bends and backfilling shall be performed under the direction
and supervision of the utilities supervisor. No work shall be covered or
backfilled until directed by said supervisor. All work and excavations shall be
protected by barricades and warning markers and lights reasonable and suitable
to the purpose. The city shall be held harmless of any claim or loss that might
arise for damage, loss or injury caused by or arising by reason of such work
being performed; and the applicant causing such work to be done shall give
undertaking to the city with respect hereto.
No digging in a permanent type street shall be permitted except by special
permission from the city, and upon posting of such security as may be required
for the replacement of said street. (Ord. 172, 5-5-1969)
8-2-10: RIGHT TO ENTER LAND:
The city by any authorized employee or agent shall have the right to enter and
be admitted to any lands and property in the city for purpose of inspection of
materials, plumbing work and fixtures of all kinds used by or in connection
with the sanitary sewer systems. (Ord. 172, 5-5-1969)
8-2-11: SEWER CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make or have made on his behalf any
connection to the city sewer system in the city for the purpose of, or
resulting in, connecting property not then within the boundaries of the city to
the city sewer system. (Ord. 157, 9-1-1965)
8-2-12: SEWER RENTAL CHARGES:
Charges for use of the city utility system shall be established and billed for
as provided in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 013-659, 3-4-2013, eff. 4-1-
2013)
8-2-13: SEWER OPERATIONS FUND:
All funds received from the collection of the charges or rentals authorized by
this chapter and all funds received from charges provided in contracts with
special users of said sewer system, shall be deposited as collected in a fund
designated as the sewer operations fund and disbursed from said fund to meet
the cost of operating and maintaining the sewage disposal plant and the
facilities connected therewith. (Ord. 015-695, 3-16-2015)
FA192   8-3.txt
CHAPTER 3
WATERWORKS
SECTION:
8-3-1: Establishment
8-3-2: Council To Manage System
8-3-3: Water Department Supervisor
8-3-4: Application, Permits And Fees
8-3-5: Private Water System Unlawful
8-3-6: Water Meter Regulations
8-3-7: Meters
8-3-8: Water Rental Charges
8-3-9: Meter Reading
8-3-10: Billing Regulations (Rep. by Ord. 013-659, 3-4-2013, eff. 4-1-2013)
8-3-11: Faulty Meters
8-3-12: Leak In Service Line
8-3-13: Connection Requirements
8-3-14: Connections Prohibited
8-3-15: Unlawful To Tamper With Meter
8-3-16: Responsibility Of Owners
8-3-17: Installation Of Connections
8-3-18: City Not Liable
8-3-19: Excavation And Repair Work
8-3-20: Use Of Fire Hydrants
8-3-21: Emergency Regulations
8-3-22: Right To Enter Land
8-3-23: Private Water Not Permitted In City System
8-3-24: Notice Of Users
8-3-25: Water Area Charges
8-3-26: Turning On Water, Tapping Mains
8-3-27: Penalty
8-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
The water system as they are now constituted or shall be hereinafter enlarged
or extended shall be operated and maintained under the provisions of this
chapter subject to the authority of the council at any time to amend, alter,
change or repeal the same. (Ord. 173, 7-7-1969)
8-3-2: COUNCIL TO MANAGE SYSTEM:
The council shall have charge and management of the water system, subject to
such delegation of their authority to other city employees as the council shall
provide. (Ord. 173, 7-7-1969)
8-3-3: WATER DEPARTMENT SUPERVISOR:
For the purposes of this chapter, the "water department supervisor" is defined
as either the city engineer or the municipal services director. (Ord. 012-646,
6-18-2012)
8-3-4: APPLICATION, PERMITS AND FEES:
No person shall make any type of connection to, repair of, or alteration in the
water system, except after making an application on a form provided by the city
and receiving a permit issued by the city. The application shall include the
legal description of the property to be served, the uses for which the
connection is requested, and the size of the service line to be used.
The water department supervisor shall examine all applications before a permit
is issued; and after the construction, enlargement, alteration, or repair is
complete the water department supervisor shall be notified. It shall be
unlawful to cover any connecting line until an inspection has been made and
such connection and the work incident thereto has been approved by the water
department supervisor as a proper and suitable connection.
No permit shall be issued and no connection shall be made with respect to any
water system serving the property of any person or occupants of the land,
parcel or premises affected that have not paid or provided for the payment of
their full and proportionate share of the cost of said utility, or the current
installment of any special assessment thereon.
All connection costs and charges, permit fees and user charges, together with
the method of payment therefor, shall be established by the council from time
to time, within the discretion of the council. (Ord. 173, 7-7-1969)
No permit shall be issued to connect with any water main unless the clerk
certifies to the truth of one of the following or the payment required under
this section is made:
   (A)   That the lot or tract to be served has been assessed for the cost of
construction of the main with which the connection is made or that proceedings
for levying such assessment have been or will be commenced in due course; or
   (B)   That the cost of construction of the main has been paid by the
developer or builder platting the lot or tract; or
   (C)   That, if neither of the foregoing is true, a sum equal to the portion
of the cost of constructing the main which would be assessable against the lot
or parcel has been paid to the city. (Ord. 092-274, 7-20-1992)
8-3-5: PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM UNLAWFUL:
It shall be unlawful for any person to install a private or community water
system in the city in cases where the public water system is accessible to the
premises where such private system is requested. To determine whether or not
such public water is available for connection each person or corporation
desiring to install a private or community water system must first make
application for connection to the public system. Upon determination of the
council that it is not feasible to connect the applicant's premises to the
public water system, then the applicant shall be granted a permit to install a
private community water system.
All properties using a water system in the city, except those properties which
are considered as agricultural, shall connect to the water system of the city
within one year after the time that said system is available to the property.
(Ord. 173, 7-7-1969)
8-3-6: WATER METER REGULATIONS:
Before any water conveyed through the municipal water system shall be used or
utilized on the premises of any person there shall be installed a water meter
that will accurately measure the water consumed on said premises. The meters so
installed shall be of the type approved by the water department and shall be
installed at the applicant's own expense. A water meter yoke shall be installed
on water service pipes going into the premises of one inch (1") or less. All
water use shall be metered.
All properties which are currently receiving water through the city shall have
one year from the passage of this section to have a meter installed meeting the
requirements of section
8-3-7 of this chapter. If the owner of said property has not installed the
meter within one year of the passage of this section, the city may have the
meter installed and charge the property owner for said installation. If the
installation and meter are not paid for by the property owner, the city may
then assess the cost thereof to the property.
The city shall exclusively own and control the water meters to be used in the
water system.
If any meters are damaged either by carelessness or neglect of the owner or
occupant of the premises or other agents, the owner or occupants must pay for
the repairs of such damage. The cost of ordinary maintenance and repair of all
meters owned by the city shall be borne by the water department. (Ord. 092-274,
7-20-1992)
8-3-7: METERS:
   (A)   Meter Use Required: Except for extinguishing of fire, no person except
authorized city employees shall use water from the water supply system or
permit water to be drawn therefrom unless the same be metered by passing
through a meter supplied or approved by the city. (Ord. 092-274, 7-20-1992)
   (B)   Installation Of Meters: All water meters hereafter installed or
replaced shall be done so in accordance with the following rules:
      1.   The service pipe from the water main to the meter shall be brought
through the floor in a vertical position. The full flow ball valves shall be
installed between twelve inches (12") and sixty inches (60") above the floor.
Brass fittings are required between the full flow ball valves.
      2.   The meter shall be located so that the bottom is a minimum of twelve
inches (12") above the finished floor line. The meter shall be set not more
than sixty inches (60") above the floor line, measured horizontally from the
inside line of the basement wall, unless an alternate method is approved by the
building official. A suitable bracket to support the meter in a proper vertical
position and to prevent noise from vibration shall be provided. (Ord. 093-296,
1-19-1993)
      3.   All meter installations shall have a full flow ball valve on the
street side of the meter. In no case shall there be more than twelve inches
(12") of pipe exposed between the point of entrance through the basement floor
and the gate valve.
Full flow ball valves shall also be installed on the house side of the meter.
Meter setting devices shall be of copper pipe or tubing from the terminus of
the service pipe up to and including the house side full flow ball valve and it
must provide for continuous electrical conductivity. When no meter horn is
installed, continuous electrical conductivity shall be provided by adequately
sized ground strap per electrical codes.
      4.   Meters installed prior to the passage of this section are exempt
from sections
8-3-1 through
 8-3-3 of this chapter. (Ord. 092-274, 7-20-1992)
8-3-8: WATER RENTAL CHARGES:
Charges for use of the city utility system shall be established and billed for
as provided in chapter 12 of this title. (Ord. 013-659, 3-4-2013, eff. 4-1-
2013)
8-3-9: METER READING:
   (A)   The council may provide a system of water meter reading by any method
deemed suitable to the purpose of the council. The council may also establish
billing areas or districts and provide for the reading of meters and billing
charges by calendar quarters or monthly quarters or such periodic intervals as
the council shall determine suitable and necessary from time to time.
   (B)   The council reserves the right to discontinue service to any customer
of the water system without notice when necessary for repairs, additional
connections or reconnection or for nonpayment of charges or bills or disregard
of any rules or regulations in connection with the use or operation of said
system. Whenever any service has been discontinued for nonpayment of charges or
bills or for disregard of any rules or regulations or for any other purpose, it
shall not be resumed except upon payment of the charges or bills accrued
together with interest thereon in the amount of six percent (6%) per annum, or
compliance with the rules and regulations previously violated and payment to
the council of a restoration fee to be determined by the water board.
   (C)   The city shall keep an accurate record of each meter in use, read all
meters at the end of the billing cycle and calculate the amount of water used
by each consumer. (Ord. 173, 7-7-1969; amd. Ord. 092-274, 7-20-1992)
8-3-10: BILLING REGULATIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 013-659, 3-4-2013, eff. 4-1-2013)
8-3-11: FAULTY METERS:
If a meter fails to register or accurately measure the water, the charge for
water consumed shall be paid for at the established rate based upon past
average billings as determined by the water department.
If the property owner fails to allow the city to access the faulty meter and
make repairs, or fails to have a licensed plumber acceptable to the city
complete the repairs and provide a certificate of completion to the city,
within thirty (30) days of notification, the water board is authorized to
impose a monthly surcharge against the property until such time as access to
the meter is granted or the meter is certified as repaired. The water board
shall determine and may periodically adjust the surcharge amount, which may be
different for various properties. (Ord. 012-646, 6-18-2012)
8-3-12: LEAK IN SERVICE LINE:
Any owner, occupant or user of a premises who shall discover a leak in a
service line to the premises shall notify the supervisor within twenty four
(24) hours. Any water wasted due to failure of such person to comply with this
regulation shall be estimated by the water department supervisor and be charged
for against him at the established rate.
The water department supervisor shall have the authority to discontinue service
if a leak has not been repaired within seven (7) days of notification. Water
service shall be discontinued immediately if the waste of water is great, or
when damage is likely to result from the leak. (Ord. 012-646, 6-18-2012)
8-3-13: CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS:
There shall be installed in every connection to the city water system, one full
flow ball valve which shall be installed at a point between the curb stop and
the meter so that the water may be turned off and the meter and house plumbing
entirely drained. There shall be installed another full flow ball valve in the
pipe on the house side of the meter. There shall be installed a meter yoke of
the type approved by the council for convenient installation or removal of the
meter. A separate connection shall be provided for fire protection systems. No
meter is required on fire protection service lines. All service pipes connected
to the city system shall be type K copper, a minimum of one inch (1") inside
diameter or its approved equal. Each principal use shall be connected
separately to the public water service system. Existing connection pipes shall
be brought into compliance with this section upon their repair, alteration or
replacement. All curb stops shall be installed at the property line, centered
on the lot, upstream of the sanitary sewer service and shall include a riser
rod inside the valve box.
Before undertaking the construction work authorized by the permit, the person
shall secure and maintain a policy of insurance against damages to property or
injury or death to individuals as provided by law. Proof of such insurance
shall be filed with the city prior to construction work and such policy shall
provide that the city shall be notified immediately of any termination or
modification of such insurance. (Ord. 090-225, 1-2-1990; amd. Ord. 092-274, 7-
20-1992; Ord. 093-296, 1-19-1993)
8-3-14: CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to make or have made on his behalf any
connection to the city water system in the city for the purpose of, or
resulting in, connecting property not then within the boundaries of the city to
the city water system. (Ord. 157, 8-2-1965)
8-3-15: UNLAWFUL TO TAMPER WITH METER:
It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with, alter, bypass or in any
manner whatsoever interfere with the proper use and functioning of any water
meter within the city. (Ord. 173, 7-7-1969)
8-3-16: RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS:
After the initial connection has been made to the curb stops, the applicant,
owner, occupant or user of the premises shall have the responsibility to
maintain the stop box at such height as will ensure that it remains above the
finished grade of the property. (Ord. 173, 7-7-1969)
8-3-17: INSTALLATION OF CONNECTIONS:
All connections to the water system shall be performed by a plumber licensed to
do plumbing by the state of Minnesota, except that nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to prohibit an individual owner from obtaining a permit and
installing such connection by his own labor; provided, however, that said
construction is conducted under the regulations of this chapter and requirement
of the city engineer and water department supervisor. (Ord. 173, 7-7-1969)
8-3-18: CITY NOT LIABLE:
The city shall not be held liable at any time for any deficiency or failure in
the supply of water to any customer whether the same be occasioned by shutting
off the water for repairs or connections or for any cause whatsoever. (Ord.
173, 7-7-1969)
8-3-19: EXCAVATION AND REPAIR WORK:
   (A)   All installation work or repairs of connections to the water systems,
including grades, bends and backfilling shall be performed under the direction
and supervision of the water department. All backfill should be free of foreign
materials, be compactible and a mechanical tamper should be used. No work shall
be covered or backfilled until directed by said supervisor. When excavation
work is done on city or private property, the excavated material should be
placed on a plastic or canvas or similar covering and the top soil should be
kept separately from the other soil excavated. When the excavation is
backfilled, the top soil shall be replaced last. All work and excavation shall
be protected by the barricades and warning markers and lights reasonable and
suitable to the purpose. The city shall be held harmless of any claim or loss
that might arise from damage, loss or injury caused by or arising by reason of
such work being performed; and the applicant causing such work to be done shall
give undertaking to the city with respect hereto.
   (B)   No digging in a permanent type street shall be permitted except by
special permission from the city, and upon posting of such security as may be
required for the replacement of said street. (Ord. 173, 7-7-1969)
8-3-20: USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS:
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open, tamper with,
or otherwise use any fire hydrant, valve or appurtenance to the water system.
Firefighters and city employees are authorized to use the fire hydrants.
   (B)   The city does not issue hydrant use permits. Anyone wishing to utilize
large quantities of water may receive water from the city's filling station(s).
(Ord. 012-646, 6-18-2012)
   (C)   Anyone wishing to utilize water for irrigation, rink flooding, etc.,
must utilize a permanently installed water meter station as determined by the
municipal services director.
The above water uses shall be metered and a report submitted to the municipal
services director. (Ord. 015-695, 3-16-2015)
   (D)   At the discretion of the water department supervisor, contractors on
large projects may be allowed to obtain water directly from fire hydrants. When
approved by the water department supervisor, all water must be metered through
the use of a hydrant meter supplied by the city. The contractor will be
responsible for all costs associated with the usage including, but not limited
to, the appropriate usage charge and a damage deposit for the meter. (Ord. 012-
646, 6-18-2012)
8-3-21: EMERGENCY REGULATIONS:
The council may impose emergency regulations pertaining to the conservation of
water by resolution of the council and by giving notice by publication or by
posting in the city hall and at such public places as the council may direct.
(Ord. 173, 7-7-1969)
8-3-22: RIGHT TO ENTER LAND:
The city by any authorized employee or agent shall have the right to enter and
be admitted to any lands and property in the city for the purpose of inspection
of materials, plumbing work and fixtures of all kinds used by or in connection
with the water system. (Ord. 173, 7-7-1969)
8-3-23: PRIVATE WATER NOT PERMITTED IN CITY SYSTEM:
Whenever any premises are connected to the city water system, there shall be
maintained a complete physical separation between the city water supply system
and any private water supply system so that it is impossible to intentionally
or unintentionally allow any water produced by a private system to be
introduced in the supply line of the city system. (Ord. 173, 7-7-1969)
8-3-24: NOTICE OF USERS:
Upon the change of occupancy of any premises which are connected to the city
water system, the occupant leaving the premises shall give notice prior to the
time he vacates the premises that the water service shall be discontinued. The
fee owner of the premises is required to give notice to the water department of
the name and address of the new occupant as well as to give notice when the
water service shall be furnished to the new occupant. (Ord. 173, 7-7-1969)
8-3-25: WATER AREA CHARGES:
No building permit, subdivision, rezoning or action by the zoning board of
adjustment shall be approved until the applicant has paid a water area charge
for past, present or future water supply. Said charge shall be based on and
used in accordance with the Farmington water supply and distribution plan as
amended. (Ord. 089-224, 12-4-1989)
8-3-26: TURNING ON WATER, TAPPING MAINS:
No person except an authorized city employee shall turn on any water supply by
operating a gate valve, hydrant or corporation stop; or tap any distributing
main or pipe of the water supply system or insert a stop corp or other
appurtenance therein. City employees and licensed plumbers shall be allowed to
operate the curb stop, typically located at the property line, in the course of
their duties when all city permits have been received. (Ord. 094-330, 4-4-1994)
8-3-27: PENALTY:
A violation of this chapter or of any provision of this code shall be a penal
offense and subject to the penalties therefor. Any person convicted of such
violation shall be penalized up to the maximum amounts allowed for statutory
misdemeanor violations. (Ord. 093-314, 9-7-1993)
FA192   8-4.txt
CHAPTER 4
GAS FRANCHISE
SECTION:
8-4-1: Franchise Granted
8-4-2: Franchise Fee Option
8-4-3: Term
8-4-4: Governing Rules And Regulations
8-4-5: Construction And Maintenance Of Company Facilities
8-4-6: Extension Of Company Facilities
8-4-7: Relocation Of Company Facilities
8-4-8: Confidential Information
8-4-9: Force Majeure
8-4-10: Hold Harmless
8-4-11: Severability
8-4-12: Nonwaiver
8-4-13: Repeal Conflicting Ordinances
8-4-14: Effect And Interpretation Of Chapter
8-4-15: Effective Date And Acceptance
8-4-1: FRANCHISE GRANTED:
The City of Farmington, Minnesota, (hereinafter referred to as "grantor")
hereby grants a non-exclusive franchise to Minnesota Energy Resources, a
subsidiary of WEC Energy Group, a Wisconsin corporation (hereinafter called
"grantee"), its lessees, successors and assigns. Grantee is hereby granted the
right, privilege, franchise, permission and authority to lay, construct,
install, maintain, operate and extend in, along, over or across the present and
future streets, alleys, avenues, bridges, public rights-of-way and public
places as are now within the present or future limits of said grantor, a
natural gas distribution system and all facilities necessary for the purpose of
supplying natural gas or processed gas for all purposes to the inhabitants of
said grantor and consumers in the vicinity thereof, and for the distribution of
natural gas from or through said grantor to points beyond the limits thereof.
Such facilities shall include, but not be limited to, all mains, services,
pipes, conduits and appliances necessary or convenient for transmitting,
transporting; distributing and supplying natural gas for all purposes for which
it may be used, and to do all other things necessary and proper in providing
natural gas service to the inhabitants of grantor and in carrying on such
business. (Ord. 018-741, 10-15-2018)
8-4-2: FRANCHISE FEE OPTION:
In accordance with Minnesota law, during the term of this franchise, grantor
may, in its discretion and only after ninety (90) days' prior written notice to
grantee, hold a public hearing, and the affirmative vote of grantor's City
Council, impose a franchise fee by separate ordinance on customers located
within the corporate City limits of grantor. The method of assessment and
collection of any franchise fee enacted by grantor shall be based on one of the
following or an alternate method mutually acceptable to both the grantor and
grantee: a) percentage of gross receipts of regulated sales or transportation
revenues collected within grantor's corporate City limits; b) volumetric fee
based on the delivery of energy within grantor's corporate City limits; or c)
flat fee collected on a nondiscriminatory basis from customers who are located
within grantor's corporate City limits. At grantor's request, grantee may
propose ordinance language that would implement the authorized franchise fee.
For the avoidance of doubt, it is grantor's intent that any franchise fee
imposed by grantor in accordance with this provision shall be fairly and
reasonably designed so as not to establish or foster an economic advantage for
energy providers in competition with grantee that are subject to grantor's
franchising authority. (Ord. 018-741, 10-15-2018)
8-4-3: TERM:
The rights and privileges granted by this chapter/franchise shall remain in
effect for a period of ten (10) years from the effective date. The chapter/
franchise shall be automatically extended for up to one additional term of ten
(10) years, provided, however, that the City may notify the company in writing
at least ninety (90) days before the expiration of the initial term, that City
desires to renegotiate the chapter/franchise. The chapter/franchise shall
terminate one hundred twenty (120) days after City's provision of such notice,
by mail or personal delivery, during which period the parties shall seek to
negotiate, in good faith, mutually acceptable terms. (Ord. 018-741, 10-15-2018)
8-4-4: GOVERNING RULES AND REGULATIONS:
This chapter is granted subject to all conditions, limitations and immunities
now provided for, or as hereafter amended, and applicable to the operations of
a public utility, by State or Federal law. The rates to be charged by grantee
for service within the present or future corporate limits of grantor and the
rules and regulations regarding the character, quality and standards of service
to be furnished by grantee shall be under the jurisdiction and control of such
regulatory body or bodies as may, from time to time, be vested by law with
authority and jurisdiction over the rates, regulations and quality and
standards of service to be supplied by grantee. Provided however, should any
judicial, regulatory or legislative body, having proper jurisdiction, take any
action that precludes grantee from recovering from its customers any cost
associated with services provided hereunder, then grantee and grantor shall
renegotiate the terms of this chapter in accordance with the action taken, so
as to allow grantee to be made whole economically. In determining the rights
and duties of the grantee, the terms of this franchise shall take precedence
over any conflicting terms or requirements contained in any other ordinance
enacted by the grantor.
If an energy supplier is unable to furnish an adequate supply of energy due to
an emergency, an order or decision of a public regulatory body, or other acts
beyond the control of the grantee, then the grantee shall have the right and
authority to adopt reasonable rules and regulations limiting, curtailing or
allocating extensions of service or supply of energy to any customers or
prospective customers, and withholding the supply of energy to new customers,
provided that such rules and regulations shall be uniform as applied to each
class of customers or prospective customers, and shall be non-discriminatory as
between communities receiving service from the grantee. (Ord. 018-741, 10-15-
2018)
8-4-5: CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE OF COMPANY FACILITIES:
Any pavements, sidewalks or curbing taken up and any and all excavations made
shall be done in such a manner as to cause only such inconvenience to the
inhabitants of grantor and to the general public as is reasonably necessary;
and repairs and replacements shall be made promptly by grantee, leaving such
properties in as good as condition as existed immediately prior to excavation.
Grantee agrees that for the term of this grant, it will use its best efforts to
maintain facilities and equipment sufficient to meet the current and future
energy requirements of grantor, its inhabitants and industries. While
maintaining its facilities and equipment, grantee shall obtain permits as
required by ordinance, except that in emergency situations, grantee shall take
immediate unilateral actions as it determines are necessary to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare; in which case, grantee shall notify grantor
as soon as reasonably possible.
Grantor will give grantee reasonable notice of plans for street improvements
where paving or resurfacing of a permanent nature is involved that affect
grantee's facilities. The notice shall contain the nature and character of the
improvements, the rights- of-way upon which the improvements are to be made,
the extent of the improvements and the time when the grantor will start the
work, and, if more than one right-of-way is involved, the order in which this
work is to proceed. The notice shall be given to the grantee a sufficient
length of time, considering seasonable working conditions, in advance of the
actual commencement of the work to permit the grantee to make any additions,
alterations, or repairs to its facilities. (Ord. 018-741, 10-15-2018)
8-4-6: EXTENSION OF COMPANY FACILITIES:
Upon receipt and acceptance of a valid application for service, grantee shall,
subject to its own economic feasibility criteria, make reasonable extensions of
its distribution facilities to serve customers located within the current or
future corporate limits of grantor. (Ord. 018-741, 10-15-2018)
8-4-7: RELOCATION OF COMPANY FACILITIES:
If grantor elects to change the grade of or otherwise alter any street, alley,
avenue, bridge, public right-of-way or public place for a public purpose,
grantee, upon reasonable notice from grantor, shall remove and relocate its
facilities or equipment situated in the public rights-of-way, if such removal
is necessary to prevent interference and not merely for the convenience of the
grantor, at the cost and expense of grantee. If grantor orders or requests
grantee to relocate its facilities or equipment for the primary benefit of a
commercial or private project, or as a result of the initial request of a
commercial or private developer or other non-public entity, and such removal is
necessary to prevent interference and not merely for the convenience of the
grantor or other right-of-way user, grantee shall receive payment for the cost
of such relocation as a precondition to relocating its facilities or equipment.
Grantor shall consider reasonable alternatives in designing its public works
projects so as not arbitrarily to cause grantee unreasonable additional expense
in exercising its authority under this section. Grantor shall also provide a
reasonable alternative location for grantee's facilities. Grantor shall give
grantee written notice of vacating of a public right-of-way. Vacating of a
public right-of-way shall not deprive the grantee of its right to operate and
maintain existing facilities, until the reasonable cost of locating the same
are first paid to the grantee.
Any person or corporation desiring to move a building or other structure along,
or to make any unusual use of any street, alley, avenue, bridge, public right-
of-way or public place which shall interfere with the facilities or equipment
of the grantee, shall first give notice to the grantor and the grantee and a
pay a sum sufficient to cover the expense and damage incident to the moving of
grantee's facilities and equipment. (Ord. 018-741, 10-15-2018)
8-4-8: CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION:
Grantor acknowledges that certain information it might request pursuant to this
franchise may be of a proprietary and confidential nature. If grantee requests
that any information provided by grantee to grantor be kept confidential due to
such proprietary or commercial value, grantor and its employees, agents, and
representatives shall maintain the confidentiality of that information, to the
extent allowed by law. If grantor is requested or required by legal or
administrative process to disclose any such confidential information, grantor
shall promptly notify grantee of such request or requirement so that grantee
may seek an appropriate protective order or other relief. Grantor shall use all
reasonable efforts to ensure that the confidentiality of grantee's confidential
information is maintained. (Ord. 018-741, 10-15-2018)
8-4-9: FORCE MAJEURE:
It shall not be a breach or default under this franchise if either party fails
to perform its obligations hereunder due to force majeure. Force majeure shall
include, but not be limited to, the following: a) physical events such as acts
of God, landslides, lightning, earthquakes, fires, freezing, storms, floods,
washouts, explosions, breakage or accident or necessity of repairs to
machinery, equipment or distribution or transmission lines; b) acts of others
such as strikes, work-force stoppages, riots, sabotage, insurrections or wars;
c) governmental actions such as necessity for compliance with any court order,
law, statute, ordinance, executive order, or regulation promulgated by a
governmental authority having jurisdiction; and any other causes, whether of
the kind herein enumerated or otherwise not reasonably within the control of
the affected party to prevent or overcome. Each party shall make reasonable
efforts to avoid force majeure and to resolve such event as promptly as
reasonably possible once it occurs in order to resume performance; provided,
however, that this provision shall not obligate a party to settle any labor
strike. (Ord. 018-741, 10-15-2018)
8-4-10: HOLD HARMLESS:
Grantee, during the term of this chapter, agrees to save harmless grantor from
and against all claims, demands, losses and expenses arising directly out of
the negligence of grantee, its employees or agents, in the constructing,
operating, and maintaining of distribution and transmission facilities or
appliances of grantee; provided, however, that grantee need not save harmless
grantor from claims, demands, losses and expenses arising out of the negligence
of grantor, its employees or agents. (Ord. 018-741, 10-15-2018)
8-4-11: SEVERABILITY:
If any clause, sentence or section of this chapter is deemed invalid by any
judicial, regulatory or legislative body having proper jurisdiction, the
remaining provisions shall not be affected. (Ord. 018-741, 10-15-2018)
8-4-12: NONWAIVER:
Any waiver of any obligation or default under this franchise shall not be
construed as a waiver of any future defaults, whether of like or different
character. (Ord. 018-741, 10-15-2018)
8-4-13: REPEAL CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
This chapter, when accepted by grantee as provided below, shall constitute the
entire agreement between the grantor and the grantee relating to this franchise
and the same shall supersede all prior ordinances pertaining to this franchise
agreement, and any terms and conditions of such prior ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed. Ordinance 003-501 the City
of Farmington, Minnesota is hereby repealed as of the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 018-741, 10-15-2018)
8-4-14: EFFECT AND INTERPRETATION OF CHAPTER:
The captions which precede each section of this chapter are for convenience in
reference only and shall not be taken into consideration in the interpretation
of any of the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 018-741, 10-15-2018)
8-4-15: EFFECTIVE DATE AND ACCEPTANCE:
This chapter shall become effective and be a binding contract between the
grantor and grantee, upon its final passage and approval by grantor, in
accordance with applicable laws and regulations, and upon acceptance by grantee
by written instrument within sixty (60) days of passage by the Governing Body,
and filed with the City Clerk of Farmington, Minnesota. The City Clerk shall
sign and affix the Community Seal to acknowledge receipt of such acceptance,
and return one copy to grantee. If grantee does not, within sixty (60) days
following passage of this chapter express in writing its objections to any
terms or provisions contained therein, or reject this chapter in its entirety,
grantee shall be deemed to have accepted this chapter and all of its terms and
conditions. (Ord. 018-741, 10-15-2018)
fa192   8-5
CHAPTER 5
SCHOOL DISTRICT FRANCHISE
SECTION:
8-5-1: Franchise Granted
8-5-2: Excavations
8-5-3: Interference With Village Improvements
8-5-4: Default of Grantee
8-5-1: FRANCHISE GRANTED:
The Independent Consolidated School District No. 40, Dakota County, Minnesota,
hereinafter referred to as the grantee, be and hereby is granted a nonexclusive
authority to erect and maintain a steam line in, upon, over, across and along
Locust Street, Maple Street and the alley connecting said streets through Block
One (1) of Greenway Addition, for the transmission of steam heat from one
school building to the other or between such school buildings as the grantee
may build, construct or use adjacent to said streets or either of them.
8-5-2: EXCAVATIONS:
Whenever the grantee, in the construction or maintenance of said steam line or
in the installation of any part thereof, shall cut into or take up any pavement
or shall make any excavation in any street, alley or other public place, within
the corporate limits of the Village, the same shall be done in a manner so as
not to interfere unduly with the use of such thoroughfares by the public. The
grantee shall use such safeguards as may be reasonably necessary to prevent
injury to persons or property during such construction work, and upon its
completion, said streets, alleys or other public places shall be replaced in as
good condition as it was before taken up. All excavations shall be refilled and
all obstructions shall be removed at the expense of the grantee and to the
satisfaction of the grantor. In the event that the grantee shall fail to comply
with the provisions of this Section after having been given reasonable notice,
the grantor may do such work as may be needed to properly repair said
thoroughfare and the cost thereof shall be repaid to the grantor by the
grantee.
8-5-3: INTERFERENCE WITH VILLAGE IMPROVEMENTS:
The grantee in erecting and maintaining said steam line, and in entering and
using said streets, alleys or public places in the Village, shall not in any
manner interfere with or injure any improvement which the Village now has or
may hereafter have upon any of its streets, alleys or public places.
8-5-4: DEFAULT OF GRANTEE:
If the grantee shall be in default in the performances of any of the terms and
conditions of this franchise and shall continue in default for more than thirty
(30) days after receiving notice from the Council of such default, the Council
may, by ordinance duly passed and adopted, terminate all rights granted under
this franchise to the grantee. The said notice of default shall specify the
provision or provisions in the performance of which it is claimed the grantee
is in default. Said notice shall be in writing and served in the manner
provided by the laws of Minnesota for the service of original notices in civil
actions. (Ord. 124; 4-5-54)
fa192   8-6
CHAPTER 6
POWER FRANCHISE
SECTION:
   Article I. Northern States Power Company
8-6-1: Franchise Granted
8-6-2: Maintenance Privileges
8-6-3: Relocation Reimbursement
8-6-4: Agreement Enforced
8-6-5: When Effective
   Article II. Dakota Electric Association
8-6-6: Definitions
8-6-7: Franchise Granted
8-6-8: Location, Other Regulations
8-6-9: Relocations
8-6-10: Tree Trimming
8-6-11: Indemnification
8-6-12: Vacation of Public Ways
8-6-13: Change in Form of Government
8-6-14: Severability
8-6-15: Amendment
8-6-16: Previous Franchise Superseded
   Article I. Northern States Power Company
8-6-1: FRANCHISE GRANTED:
The City of Farmington hereby grants Northern States Power Company, a Minnesota
Corporation, its successors and assigns, a non-exclusive right for a period of
twenty five (25) years from the date hereof, to erect and maintain an electric
distribution system and transformers and all other appurtenances thereunto
appertaining in, upon, over, across and along the streets, alleys, bridges and
public places in the City for the transmission, distribution and sale of
electric energy for industrial, residential and all other uses and purposes in
the City. Said company may do all reasonable things necessary or customary to
accomplish these purposes, subject, however, to the further provisions of this
Ordinance and to the provisions of that certain contract entered between the
City and said company in contemplation of this Ordinance, the terms of which
contract are hereby adopted by reference.
8-6-2: MAINTENANCE PRIVILEGES:
Said company is also granted the permission and authority to trim the trees and
shrubs in the streets and public grounds of the City interfering with the
proper construction, operation, repair and maintenance of any poles, pole lines
and fixtures or appurtenances installed in pursuance of the authority hereby
granted, provided that said company shall save the City harmless from any
liability in the premises.
8-6-3: RELOCATION REIMBURSEMENT:
Except where required solely for a Municipal improvement project, the vacation
of any street, alley, public way or public ground, after the installation of
electrical facilities, shall not operate to deprive said company of the right
to operate and maintain such electrical facilities, until the reasonable cost
of relocating the same and the loss and expense resulting from such relocation
are first paid to company.
8-6-4: AGREEMENT ENFORCED:
Any violation of the terms of the aforesaid contract between said company and
the City which shall be kept on file in the office of the City Administrator
shall be a violation of this Ordinance.
8-6-5: WHEN EFFECTIVE:
This Ordinance shall become effective after adoption by the Council, written
acceptance by the company and publication of same in the official newspaper.
(Ord. 081-115, 6-18-81)
   Article II. Dakota Electric Association
8-6-6: DEFINITIONS:
CITY: In this Chapter, "City" means the City of Farmington, County of Dakota,
State of Minnesota.
CITY UTILITY SYSTEM: The facilities used for providing sewer, water, or any
other public utility service owned or operated by the City or agency thereof.
COMPANY: In this Chapter, "company" means Dakota Electric Association, a
Minnesota corporation, its successors and assigns.
ELECTRIC FACILITIES: Electric transmission and distribution towers, poles,
lines, guys, anchors, ducts, fixtures and necessary appurtenances owned or
operated by the company for the purpose of providing electric energy for public
use.
NOTICE: A writing served by any party or parties on any other party or parties.
Notice to company shall be mailed to Dakota Electric Association, Farmington,
Minnesota, 55024. Notice to City shall be mailed to the City Clerk.
PUBLIC GROUND: Land owned by the City for park, open space, or similar purpose,
which is held for use in common by the public.
PUBLIC WAY: Any street, alley, or other public right of way within the City.
8-6-7: FRANCHISE GRANTED:
   (A)   Grant of Franchise: The City hereby grants the company, for a period
of sixteen (16) years and four (4) months from March 5, 1990, the right to
transmit and furnish electric energy for light, heat, power and other purposes
for public and private use within and through the limits of the City as its
boundaries now exist or as they may be extended in the future. For these
purposes, the company may construct, operate, repair and maintain electric
facilities in, on, over, under, and across the public ways and public grounds
of the City subject to the provisions of this Chapter. The company may do all
reasonable things necessary or customary to accomplish these purposes; subject,
however, to zoning ordinances, other applicable ordinances, permit procedures,
and to the further provisions of this franchise.
   (B)   Effective Date; Written Acceptance: This franchise shall be in force
and effect from and after its passage and its acceptance by the company, and
its publication as required by law. An acceptance by the company must be filed
with the City Clerk within ninety (90) days after publication.
   (C)   Service Rates and Area: The service to be provided and the rates to be
charged by company for electric service in the City currently are subject to
the jurisdiction of the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission. The area within
the City in which the company may provide electric service currently is subject
to the provisions of Minnesota Statutes, section 216B.40.
   (D)   Publication Expense: The expense of publication of this Chapter shall
be paid by the company.
   (E)   Default: If either party asserts that the other party is in default in
the performance of any obligation hereunder, the complaining party shall notify
the other party of the default, and the desired remedy. The notification shall
be written. If the dispute is not resolved within thirty (30) days of the
written notice, either party may commence an action in District Court to
interpret and enforce this franchise or for such other relief as may be
permitted by law or equity for breach of contract, or either party may take any
other action permitted by law.
8-6-8: LOCATION, OTHER REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Location of Facilities: Electric facilities shall be located and
constructed so as not to interfere with the safety and convenience of ordinary
travel along and over public ways and they shall be located on public grounds
as determined by the City. The company's construction, reconstruction,
operation, repair, maintenance, and location of electric facilities shall be
subject to other reasonable regulations of the City.
   (B)   Field Location: The company shall provide field locations for any of
its underground electric facilities within a reasonable period of time on
request by the City. The period of time will be considered reasonable if it
compares favorably with the average time required by the cities in the same
county to locate municipal underground facilities for the company.
   (C)   Street Openings: The company shall not open or disturb the paved
surface of any public way or public ground for any purpose without first having
obtained permission from the City, for which the City may impose a reasonable
fee. Permit conditions imposed on the company shall not be more burdensome than
those imposed on other utilities for similar facilities or work. The company
may, however, open and disturb the paved surface of any public way or public
ground without permission from the City where an emergency exists requiring the
immediate repair of the electric facilities. In such event, the company shall
notify the City by telephone to the office designated by the City before
opening of disturbing a paved surface of a public way or public ground. Not
later than the second working day thereafter, the company shall obtain any
required permits and pay any required fees.
   (D)   Restoration: After undertaking any work requiring the opening of any
public way or public ground, the company shall restore the same, including
paving and its foundation, to as good condition as formerly existed, and shall
maintain the same in good condition for two (2) years thereafter. The work
shall be completed as promptly as weather permits, and if the company shall not
promptly perform and complete the work, remove all dirt, rubbish, equipment and
material, and put the public way or public ground in the said condition, the
City shall have, after demand to the company to cure and the passage of a
reasonable period of time following the demand, but not to exceed five (5)
days, the right to make the restoration at the expense of the company. The
company shall pay to the City the cost of such work done for or performed by
the City, including its administrative expense and overhead, plus ten percent
(10%) additional as liquidated damages. This remedy shall be in addition to any
other remedy available to the City.
   (E)   Shared Use of Poles: The company shall make space available on its
poles or towers for City fire, water utility, police or other City facilities
whenever such use will not interfere with the use of such poles or towers by
the company, by another electric utility, by a telephone utility, or by any
cable television company or other form of communication company. In addition,
the City shall pay for any added cost incurred by the company because of such
use by the City. Any City facilities shall be installed and maintained in
accordance with the National Safety Code.
8-6-9: RELOCATIONS:
   (A)   Relocation of Electric Facilities in Public Ways: Except as provided
in subsection
8-6-9(C), if the City determines to vacate for a City improvement project, or
to grade, regrade, or change the line of any public way, or construct or
reconstruct any City utility system in any public way, it may order the company
to relocate its electric facilities located therein. The company shall relocate
its electric facilities at its own expense. The City shall give the company
reasonable notice of plans to vacate for a City improvement project, or to
grade, regrade or change the line of any public way or to construct or
reconstruct any City utility system. If a relocation is ordered within five (5)
years of a prior relocation of the same electric facilities, which was made at
company expense, the City shall reimburse the company for nonbetterment
expenses on a time and material basis; provided, that if a subsequent
relocation is required because of the extension of a City utility system to a
previously unserved area, company may be required to make the subsequent
relocation at its expense. Nothing in this Chapter requires company to
relocate, remove, replace or reconnect at its own expense its facilities where
such relocation, removal, replacement, or reconstruction is solely for the
convenience of the City and is not reasonably necessary for the construction or
reconstruction of a public way or City utility system or other City
improvement.
   (B)   Relocation of Electric Facilities in Public Ground: Except as may be
provided in subsection
8-6-9(C), City may require the company to relocate or remove its electric
facilities from public ground upon a finding by the City that the electric
facilities have become or will become a substantial impairment of the public
use to which the public ground is or will be put. The relocation or removal
shall be at the company's expense. The provisions of subsection
8-6-9(B) apply only to electric facilities constructed in reliance on a
franchise and the company does not waive its rights under an easement or
prescriptive right.
   (C)   Projects with State or Federal Funding: Relocation, removal, or
rearrangement of any company facilities made necessary because of the extension
into or through the City of a Federally aided highway project shall be governed
by the provisions of Minnesota Statutes section 161.46 as supplemented or
amended. It is understood that the right herein granted to company is a
valuable right. City shall not order company to remove, or relocate its
facilities when a public way is vacated, improved, or realigned because of a
renewal or a redevelopment plan which is financially subsidized in whole or in
part by the Federal government or any agency thereof, unless the reasonable
nonbetterment costs of such relocation and the loss and expense resulting
therefrom are first paid to company, but the City need not pay those portions
of such costs for which reimbursement to it is not available.
   (D)   Liability: Nothing in this Chapter relieves any person from liability
arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid damaging
electric facilities while performing any activity.
8-6-10: TREE TRIMMING:
The company may trim all trees and shrubs in the public ways and public grounds
of the City interfering with the proper construction, operation, and
maintenance of any electric facilities installed hereunder; provided, that the
company shall save the City harmless from any liability arising therefrom, and
subject to permit or other reasonable regulation by the City.
8-6-11: INDEMNIFICATION:
The company shall indemnify, keep and hold the City free and harmless from any
and all liability on account of injury to persons or damage to property
occasioned by the construction, maintenance, repair, inspection, the issuance
of permits, or the operation of the electric facilities located in the City.
The City shall not be indemnified for losses or claims occasioned through its
own negligence except for losses or claims arising out of or alleging the
City's negligence as to issuance of permits for, or inspection of, the
company's plans or work. The City shall not be indemnified if the injury or
damage results from the performance in a proper manner of acts reasonably
deemed hazardous by company, and such performance is nevertheless ordered or
directed by the City after notice of company's determination.
   (A)   In the event a suit is brought against the City under circumstances
where this agreement to indemnify applies, the company at its sole cost and
expense shall defend the City in such suit if written notice thereof is
promptly given to the company within a period wherein the company is not
prejudiced by lack of such notice. If the company is required to indemnify and
defend, it will thereafter have control of such litigation, but the company may
not settle such litigation without the consent of the City, which consent shall
not be unreasonably withheld. This Section is not as to third parties, a waiver
of any defense or immunity otherwise available to the City; and the company, in
defending any action on behalf of the City shall be entitled to assert in any
action every defense or immunity that the City could assert in its own behalf.
8-6-12: VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS:
The City shall give the company at least two (2) weeks prior written notice of
a proposed vacation of a public way. Except where required for a City street or
other improvement project, the vacation of any public way, after the
installation of electric facilities, shall not operate to deprive the company
of its rights to operate and maintain such electric facilities, until the
reasonable cost of relocating the same and the loss and expense resulting from
such relocation are first paid to company. In no case, however, shall the City
be liable to the company for failure to specifically preserve a right of way,
under Minnesota Statutes, section 160.29.
8-6-13: CHANGE IN FORM OF GOVERNMENT:
Any change in the form of government of the City shall not affect the validity
of this Chapter. Any governmental unit succeeding the City shall, without the
consent of the company, succeed to all of the rights and obligations of the
City provided in this Chapter.
8-6-14: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this franchise is found to be invalid for any reason
whatsoever, the validity of the remainder shall not be affected.
8-6-15: AMENDMENT:
This Chapter may be amended at any time by the City passing a subsequent
ordinance declaring provisions of the amendment, which amendatory ordinance
shall become effective upon the filing of the company's written consent thereto
with the City Clerk within ninety (90) days after the effective date of the
amendatory ordinance.
8-6-16: PREVIOUS FRANCHISE SUPERSEDED:
This franchise supersedes any previous electric franchise granted to the
company or its predecessor. (Ord. 090-231, 3-5-90)
FA192   8-7.txt
CHAPTER 7
RAILROADS
SECTION:
8-7-1: Speed Of Trains (Rep. by Ord. 015-695, 3-16-2015)
8-7-2: Obstructing Streets (Rep. by Ord. 015-695, 3-16-2015)
8-7-3: Sounding Locomotive Whistles
8-7-1: SPEED OF TRAINS:
(Rep. by Ord. 015-695, 3-16-2015)
8-7-2: OBSTRUCTING STREETS:
(Rep. by Ord. 015-695, 3-16-2015)
8-7-3: SOUNDING LOCOMOTIVE WHISTLES:
Between the hours of eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.,
no person shall sound or blow any whistle of any locomotive within the city
limits within a federal railroad authority quiet zone, except as a warning of
imminent and immediate danger to life or property. The sounding of any
locomotive whistle shall be prima facie evidence that it was sounded by the
engineer operating the locomotive. (Ord. 015-695, 3-16-2015)
fa192   8-8
CHAPTER 8
HIAWATHA BROADBAND COMMUNICATIONS CABLE FRANCHISE
SECTION:
8-8-1: Short Title And Definitions
8-8-2: Grant Of Authority And General Provisions
8-8-3: Construction Standards
8-8-4: Design Provision
8-8-5: Service Provisions
8-8-6: Public Access Provisions
8-8-7: Operation And Administration Provisions
8-8-8: General Financial And Insurance Provisions
8-8-9: Sale, Abandonment, Transfer And Revocation
8-8-10: Miscellaneous Provisions
8-8-11: Publication Effective Date; Acceptance And Exhibits
8-8-1: SHORT TITLE AND DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Short Title: This Franchise shall be known and cited as the Cable
Services Franchise Ordinance.
   (B)   Definitions: For purposes of this Franchise, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning ascribed to them by
the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended from time to time (the
"Cable Act"), unless otherwise defined herein, Words used in the present tense
include the future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and
words in the singular number include the plural number, All capitalized terms
used in the definition of any other term shall have their meaning as otherwise
defined in this section, The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may"
is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary
meaning.
BASIC CABLE SERVICE: Any service tier which includes the lawful retransmission
of local television broadcast signals and any public, educational, and
governmental access programming required by the franchise to be carried on the
basic tier. Basic Cable Service as defined herein shall be the definition set
forth in 47 U.S.C. § 522(3).
CABLE ACT: The Cable Communications Act of 1984 as amended, 47 U.S.C. §§ 521
et. seq.
CABLE SERVICE or SERVICE:
   (a)   The one-way transmission to Subscribers of (i) Video Programming, or
(ii) Other Programming Service; and
   (b)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection or
use of such Video Programming or Other Programming Service, Cable Service as
defined herein shall be the definition set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM or SYSTEM: A facility, consisting of a set of closed transmission
paths and associated signal generation, reception and control equipment that is
designed to provide Cable Service which includes Video Programming, and which
is provided to multiple Subscribers within a community, but such term does not
include:
   (a)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one (1) or more television broadcast stations;
   (b)   A facility that serves Subscribers without using any public Rights-of-
Way;
   (c)   A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in part,
to the provisions of 47 U.S.C. §§ 201 et. seq., except that such facility shall
be considered a Cable System (other than for purposes of 47 U.S.C. § 541(c)) to
the extent such facility is used in the transmission of Video Programming
directly to Subscribers; unless the extent of such use is solely to provide
interactive on demand services;
   (d)   An open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 573; or
   (e)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating its
electric utility system.
   Cable System as defined herein shall be the definition set forth in 47
U.S.C. § 522(7).
CHANNEL or CABLE CHANNEL: A portion of the electromagnetic frequency spectrum
which is used in a Cable System and which is capable of delivering a television
channel.
CITIES: The Cities of Apple Valley, Farmington and Rosemount, Minnesota
collectively.
CITY: The City of Farmington, Minnesota.
CITY CODE: The Municipal Code of the City of Farmington, as may be amended from
time to time.
COMMISSION: The joint powers body formed by the Cities of Apple Valley,
Farmington and Rosemount, Minnesota.
CONVERTER: An electronic device which converts signals to a frequency
acceptable to a television receiver of a Subscriber.
COUNCIL: The City Council of the City of Farmington, Minnesota.
DAY: Unless otherwise specified shall mean a calendar Day.
DROP: The cable that connects the ground block at the Subscriber's location to
the nearest distribution point of the System.
EFFECTIVE DATE: Shall mean January 1, 2023.
FCC: The Federal Communications Commission and any legally appointed,
designated or elected agent or successor.
FRANCHISE: This franchise and the regulatory and contractual relationship
established hereby.
FRANCHISE FEE: In accordance with 47 U.S.C. § 542(g), any tax, fee, or
assessment of any kind imposed by the City or other Governmental Authority on
Grantee or cable Subscriber, or both, solely because of their status as such.
The term "Franchise Fee" does not include: (i) any tax, fee, or assessment of
general applicability (including any such tax, fee, or assessment imposed on
both utilities and cable operators or their services but not including a tax,
fee, or assessment which is unduly discriminatory against cable operators or
Subscribers); (ii) capital costs which are required by the Franchise to be
incurred by Grantee for PEG Access facilities; (iii) requirements or charges
incidental to the award or enforcement of the Franchise, including payments for
bonds, security funds, letters of credit, insurance, indemnification,
penalties, or liquidated damages; or (iv) any fee imposed under Title 17 of the
United States Code.
GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY: Any court or other federal, State, county, municipal or
other governmental department, commission, board, agency or instrumentality.
GRANTEE: Hiawatha Broadband Communications, Inc., its lawful successors,
transferees or assignees.
GROSS REVENUES: Any and all revenues actually received by the Grantee, as
determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
("GAAP"), from the operation of the Cable System to provide Cable Services in
the Service Area. Gross Revenues shall not include any taxes, fees or
assessments of general applicability imposed or assessed by any Governmental
Authority, launch fees, tower rent, network capacity and facilities rent for
the provision of non cable services (including but not limited to voice or data
services), investment income, bad debt, credits, refunds, any amounts collected
from Subscribers for deposits, FCC Fees or PEG Fees. A Franchise Fee is not
such a tax, fee or assessment. The City acknowledges and accepts that Grantee
shall maintain its books and records in accordance with GAAP.
The parties acknowledge that the Grantee may offer a bundle or package of Cable
Services and non Cable Services at a discounted rate. In order to calculate
Gross Revenues, the Grantee will allocate revenues between Cable Services
(which are subject to the Franchise Fee) and non Cable Services (which are not
subject to the Franchise Fee but may be subject to other fees and/or taxes)
included in the bundle or package of services. The Grantee shall apportion the
revenues generated from bundled or packaged services on a proportionate pro
rata basis among the services offered unless such allocation methodology is
directly in conflict with GAAP, in which case Grantee shall allocate bundled
revenues in accordance with GAAP, and in no event shall the Grantee allocate
the revenues to evade its Franchise Fee obligations under this Franchise or
disproportionately reduce Gross Revenues.
INSTALLATION: The connection of the System from distribution cable to the point
of connection, including Standard Installations and custom Installations.
NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS: Those hours during which most similar businesses in the
City are open to serve customers. In all cases, "Normal Business Hours" must
include some evening hours at least one (1) night per week and/or some weekend
hours. Cable System Normal Business Hours as defined herein shall be the
definition set forth in 47 C.F.R. § 76.309(d).
NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS: Those service conditions which are within the
control of the Grantee, Those conditions which are not within the control of
the Grantee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages, and severe or unusual
weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily within the control of
the Grantee include, but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view
events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and
maintenance or upgrade of the Cable System. Normal Operating Conditions as
defined herein shall be the definition set forth in 47 C.F.R. § 76.309(d).
OTHER PROGRAMMING SERVICE: Information that a cable operator makes available to
all Subscribers generally. Other Programming Services as defined herein shall
be the definition set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 522(14).
PEG: Public, educational and governmental.
PERSON: Any individual or any association, firm, general partnership, limited
partnership, joint stock company, joint venture, trust, corporation, limited
liability company or other legally recognized entity, private or public,
whether for-profit or not-for-profit.
SERVICE AREA: The entire geographic area within the City as it is now
constituted or may in the future be constituted, unless otherwise specified in
this Franchise.
STANDARD INSTALLATION: Any residential Installation which can be completed
using an aerial Drop of one hundred twenty-five feet (125').
STATE: The State of Minnesota.
RIGHT OF WAY, RIGHTS-OF-WAY or ROW: The area on, below, or above a public
roadway, highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane, and public sidewalk in which
the City has an interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel
purposes and utility easements of local government units including the City.
SUBSCRIBER: Any Person who lawfully elects to subscribe to Cable Service via
the System. Subscriber as defined herein shall be the definition set forth in
47 C.F.R. § 76.5(ee).
VIDEO PROGRAMMING: Programming provided by, or generally considered comparable
to programming provided by, a television broadcast station, Video Programming
as defined herein shall be the definition set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 522(20).
   C.   Written Notice: All notices, reports or demands required or permitted
to be given under this Franchise shall be in writing and shall be deemed to be
given when delivered personally to the party designated below, or when five (5)
days have elapsed after it has been deposited in the United States mail in a
sealed envelope, with registered or certified mail, postage prepaid thereon, or
on the next business day if sent by express mail or nationally recognized
overnight air courier addressed to the party to which notice, report or demand
is being given, as follows:
      If to City:         City of Farmington
                  Attn: City Administrator
                  430 3rd Street
                  Farmington, MN 55024
      If to Grantee:         Hiawatha Broadband Communications
                  Attn: Vice President, Finance
                  58 Johnson St
                  Winona, MN 55987
   Such addresses may be changed by either party upon notice to the other party
given as provided in this section. (Ord. 023-773, 12-19-2022)
8-8-2: GRANT OF AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Franchise Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
install, operate or maintain a Cable System or to offer Cable Service in the
City unless such person or the person for whom such action is being taken shall
have first obtained and shall currently hold a valid cable television
franchise. The City shall at all times comply with the level playing field
statute at Minnesota Statutes Section 238.08 and any other applicable state or
federal level playing field requirements.
   (B)   Grant Of Franchise:
      1.   This nonexclusive Franchise is granted pursuant to the terms and
conditions contained herein. The City hereby authorizes Grantee to occupy or
use the City's rights-of-ways subject to: 1) the provisions of this non-
exclusive Franchise to provide cable service within the City; and 2) all
generally applicable nondiscriminatory and competitively neutral provisions of
the City Code. Nothing in this Franchise shall be construed to prohibit Grantee
from: (1) providing services other than cable services; or (2) challenging any
exercise of the City's legislative or regulatory authority in an appropriate
forum. The City hereby reserves all of its rights to regulate such other
services to the extent not prohibited by applicable law and no provision herein
shall be construed to limit or give up any City right to regulate.
      2.   The City shall endeavor to require developers of future subdivisions
to allow and accommodate the construction of the System as part of any
provisions for utilities to serve such subdivisions.
      3.   The Grantee agrees to comply with the terms of any lawfully adopted
generally applicable local ordinance related to the safety, health, and welfare
of the public or use of rights-of-way, to the extent that the provisions of the
ordinance do not conflict with this Franchise. This Franchise is a contract and
except as to those changes which are the result of the City's lawful exercise
of its general police power, the City may not take any unilateral action which
materially changes the explicit mutual promises in this contract. Any changes
to this Franchise must be made in writing signed by the Grantee and the City.
In the event of any conflict between this Franchise and any City ordinance or
regulation that is not generally applicable, this Franchise shall control.
Grantee reserves all rights it may have to challenge any modifications to the
City Code whether arising in contract or at law. The City reserves all of its
rights and defenses to such challenges whether arising in contract or at law.
      4.   Nothing in this Franchise shall (a) abrogate the right of the City
to perform any public works or public improvements of any description, (b) be
construed as a waiver of any codes or ordinances promulgated by the City, or
(c) be construed as a waiver or release of the rights of the City in and to the
rights-of-way, or (d) be construed as a waiver or release of rights of the
Grantee.
      5.   This Franchise complies with the Minnesota franchise standards set
forth in Minnesota Statutes Section 238.084. The City and the Grantee shall
conform to Minnesota laws promulgated subsequent to the date of this Franchise,
The City and the Grantee shall conform to federal laws and regulations as they
become effective.
   (C)   Additional Providers:
      1.   The Franchise granted herein shall be nonexclusive.
      2.   The City acknowledges that under Minnesota statutes section 238.08,
Subd. 1(b) it may only grant additional franchises to provide Cable Service
within the City on terms and conditions no more favorable or less burdensome
than those in this Franchise pertaining to: (1) the area served; (2) public,
educational, or governmental access requirements; or
      3.   Franchise Fees: Additionally, and beyond the requirements of
Minnesota statutes section 238.08, the City agrees that Grantee's obligations
under this Franchise with regard to ROW access and responsibilities,
complimentary service to public buildings, penalties and security, sale or
transfer of ownership shall not be more burdensome or less favorable than those
imposed on any such additional provider (defined below).
      4.   If any other provider of Cable Services is lawfully authorized by
the City to provide such services using facilities located wholly or partly in
the rights-of-way of the City ("Additional Provider(s)"), the City shall,
within thirty (30) days of a written request from Grantee, modify this
Franchise to ensure that the obligations imposed by subsection (C)2 have been
met.
      5.   If the City fails to make modifications consistent with subsection
(C)2 Grantee shall have the right to initiate an action in the state or federal
district court for breach of contract or other appropriate claims and seek any
and all appropriate relief, including specific performance.
      6.   Nothing in this Franchise shall impair the right of the City or
Grantee to seek other remedies available under law.
      7.   In the event City initiates the franchising process pursuant to
Minnesota statutes section 238.081, the City shall notify Grantee in writing of
its intent to initiate the franchising process prior to doing so.
      8.   Grantee shall have the right to operate the Cable System to the
extent provided in any future amendment to applicable state or federal law.
   (D)   Term: The initial term of this Franchise shall be for the period of
ten (10) years from the date of acceptance by Grantee, unless renewed, revoked
or, terminated sooner as herein provided ("Initial Term"). The initial term may
be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
   (E)   Intentionally Omitted:
   (F)   Rules Of Grantee: The Grantee shall have the authority to promulgate
such rules, regulations, terms and conditions governing the conduct of its
business as shall be reasonably necessary to enable said Grantee to exercise
its rights and perform its obligation under this Franchise and to assure
uninterrupted service to each and all of its subscribers; provided that such
rules, regulations, terms and conditions shall not be in conflict with
provisions hereto, the City Code or applicable law.
   (G)   Territorial Area Involved: This Franchise is granted for the service
area.
      1.   Grantee shall maintain the cable system in a commercially reasonable
manner.
      2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Grantee shall have the right, but
not the obligation, to extend the cable system into any portion of the service
area, provided, however, that if any additional provider operating in the City
as of the effective date of this Franchise ceases the provision of cable
service in the City, then the Grantee shall be obligated to extend the system
and offer service to all portions of the service area in which there is a
minimum of thirty five (35) homes per linear stand mile of cable as measured
from Grantee's closest trunk line or distribution cable actively delivering
service. The Grantee shall be afforded a reasonable period of time to extend
the system and make service available, not to exceed six (6) months from a
request for service. (Ord. 023-773, 12-19-2022)
8-8-3: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   (A)   Permits: Grantee shall not construct any cable system facilities until
Grantee has secured the permits from City required by applicable law.
   (B)   Grantee's Facilities And Equipment:
      1.   In those areas of the City where transmission or distribution
facilities of all the utilities providing telephone and electric power service
are underground, the Grantee likewise shall construct, operate and maintain its
transmission and distribution facilities therein underground.
      2.   Grantee shall be granted access to any easements granted to a public
utility, municipal utility or utility district in any areas annexed by City or
new developments.
      3.   In those areas of the City where Grantee's cables are located on the
above-ground transmission or distribution facilities of the utility providing
telephone or electric power service, and in the event that the facilities of
both such utilities subsequently are placed underground, then the Grantee
likewise shall construct, operate and maintain its transmission and
distribution facilities underground.
      4.   Certain of Grantee's equipment, such as pedestals, amplifiers and
power supplies, which normally are placed above ground, may continue to remain
in above-ground closures.
   (C)   Conditions On Right-Of-Way Use:
      1.   Nothing in this Franchise shall be construed to prevent City from
constructing, maintaining, repairing or relocating sewers; grading, paving,
maintaining, repairing, relocating and/or altering any right-of-way;
constructing, laying down, repairing, maintaining or relocating any water
mains; or constructing, maintaining, relocating, or repairing any sidewalk or
other public work consistent with applicable law.
      2.   Relocation For The City: The Grantee shall, upon receipt of
reasonable advance written notice, to be not less than ten (10) business days,
protect, support, temporarily disconnect, relocate, or remove any property of
Grantee when lawfully required by the City pursuant to its police powers.
Grantee shall be responsible for any costs associated with these obligations to
the same extent all other users of the City rights-of-way are responsible for
the costs related to the relocation of their facilities.
      3.   Relocation For A Third Party: The Grantee shall, on the request of
any person holding a lawful permit issued by the City, protect, support, raise,
lower, temporarily disconnect, relocate in or remove from the right-of-way as
necessary any property of the Grantee, provided that the expense of such is
paid by any such person benefitting from the relocation and the Grantee is give
reasonable advance written notice to prepare for such changes. The Grantee may
require such payment in advance. For purposes of this subsection, "reasonable
advance written notice" shall be no less than ten (10) business days in the
event of a temporary relocation and no less than one hundred twenty (120) days
for a permanent relocation.
      4.   Reimbursement Of Costs: If funds are available to any person using
the rights-of-way for the purpose of defraying the cost of any of the
foregoing, the City shall reimburse the Grantee in the same manner in which
other persons affected by the requirement are reimbursed. If the funds are
controlled by another governmental entity, the City shall make application for
such funds on behalf of the Grantee.
      5.   The Grantee shall, on request of any person holding a moving permit
issued by City, temporarily move its wires or fixtures to permit the moving of
buildings with the expense of such temporary removal to be paid by the Person
requesting the same, and the Grantee shall be given not less than ten (10) days
advance notice to arrange for such temporary changes.
      6.   Nothing in this Franchise shall be construed to prevent the City
from adopting and enforcing requirements for the usage of rights-of-way, or
from constructing, maintaining, repairing or relocating utility facilities,
streets or sidewalks, or from grading, paving, maintaining, repairing,
relocating and/or altering any right-of-way.
      7.   All system facilities shall be located so as not to obstruct or
interfere with the use of right-of-way, and so as not to unnecessarily
interfere with the usual and customary trade, traffic, or travel upon the
streets and public places in the franchise area or endanger the life of
property of any person.
   (D)   Tree Trimming: Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees, in
accordance with applicable law.
   (E)   Protection Of Facilities: Nothing contained in this section shall
relieve any person from liability arising out of the failure to exercise
reasonable care to avoid damaging Grantee's facilities while performing any
work connected with grading, regrading or changing the line of any rights-of-
way or public place or the construction or reconstruction of any sewer or water
system.
   (F)   Safety Requirements: The Grantee shall at all times keep and maintain
the system in good condition, order, and repair so as to avoid endangering the
life or property of any person; employ ordinary and reasonable care and common
industry practices to avoid causing damage, injuries, or nuisances to the
public, and; keep and maintain the system in accordance with all federal, state
and local laws and regulations including the National Electric Safety Code.
   (G)   Drop Burial: Grantee shall bury all drops in a reasonable time period
which shall not exceed ten (10) business days, subject to weather conditions
and the completion of required utility locates. In the event the ground is
frozen, Grantee shall be permitted to delay burial until the ground is suitable
for burial which in no event shall be later than June 30.
   (H)   Repair Of Rights-Of-Way And Property: Any and all rights-of-way or
public property disturbed or damaged during the construction, repair,
replacement, relocation, operation, maintenance or reconstruction of the system
shall be promptly and fully restored by Grantee at its expense in accordance
with any generally applicable ordinance governing rights-of-way. (Ord. 023-773,
12-19-2022)
8-8-4: DESIGN PROVISION:
   (A)   Cable System Design And Functionality: As of the effective date of
this Agreement, the Grantee operates a multi-gigabit fiber-to-the-premise
broadband network over which Grantee shall provide cable service pursuant to
this Franchise, and which network shall therefore constitute a cable system as
defined herein. The parties acknowledge that the current design of the cable
system does not preclude the use of new technologies in the future.
   (B)   Programming Decisions:
      1.   Grantee shall carry broad categories of video programming, including
local news, sports, and entertainment. Any change in the broad categories of
video programming or other information services shall require City approval
consistent with 47 U.S.C. § 544(b), which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
      2.   Grantee shall comply with federal law regarding notice to the City
and subscribers prior to any channel additions, deletions, or realignments.
   (C)   Technical Standards: The technical standards used in the operation of
the cable system shall comply, at minimum, with the technical standards
promulgated by the FCC relating to cable systems pursuant to Title 47, Section
76, Subpart K of the Code of Federal Regulations, as may be amended or modified
from time to time, which regulations are expressly incorporated herein by
reference.
   (D)   Special Testing: City may require special testing of a location or
locations within the system if there is a particular matter of controversy or
unresolved complaints pertaining to such location(s). Demand for such special
tests may be made on the basis of complaints received or other evidence
indicating an unresolved controversy or noncompliance. Such tests shall be
limited to the particular matter in controversy or unresolved complaints. The
City shall arrange its request for such special testing so as to minimize
hardship or inconvenience to Grantee or to the subscribers caused by such
testing. Before ordering such tests, Grantee shall be afforded thirty (30) days
to correct problems or complaints upon which tests were ordered, The City shall
meet with Grantee prior to requiring special tests to discuss the need for such
and, if possible, visually inspect those locations which are the focus of
concern. If, after such meetings and inspections, City wishes to commence
special tests and the thirty (30) days have elapsed without correction of the
matter in controversy or unresolved complaints, the tests shall be conducted by
a qualified engineer mutually selected by City and Grantee based on a mutually
agreed upon scope of work. The parties shall bear their respective costs for
the testing.
   (E)   FCC Reports: The results of tests required to be filed by Grantee with
the FCC shall also be copied to City within ten (10) days of the conduct of the
date of the test.
   (F)   Emergency Alert Capability: At all times during the term of this
Franchise, Grantee shall provide and maintain an Emergency Alert System (EAS)
consistent with applicable federal law and regulations including 47 C.F.R.,
Part 11, and any Minnesota State Emergency Alert System requirements. The City
may identify authorized emergency officials for activating the BAS consistent
with the Minnesota State Emergency Statewide Plan ("BAS Plan").
   (G)   Parental Control Lock: To the extent required by applicable law,
Grantee shall provide, for sale or lease, to subscribers, upon request, a
parental control locking device or digital code that permits inhibiting the
video and audio portions of any channels offered by Grantee. (Ord. 023-773, 12-
19-2022)
8-8-5: SERVICE PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Rate Regulation: The City reserves the right to regulate rates for
basic cable service and any other services offered over the cable system, to
the extent authorized by applicable law.
   (B)   Leased Channel Service: Grantee shall offer leased channel service on
reasonable terms and conditions and in accordance with applicable law.
   (C)   Service To Public Buildings:
      1.   For a period of one (1) year after the effective date, Grantee shall
provide basic cable service, or its lowest cost level of cable service, to a
single drop, with one (1) converter (if necessary) to one (1) outlet, free of
charge, at each public institution, elementary and secondary school building
and public library building that currently receives complimentary cable service
as of the effective date of this Franchise on a voluntary basis, as listed in
the exhibit A-1 in subsection
8-8-11 (C). Thereafter, Grantee shall provide the aforementioned service to
fifty percent (50%) of the agreed upon locations in exhibit A-2 in subsection
8-8-11 (D); provided, however, Grantee shall not be required to extend service
to any building or site not listed on exhibit A-1 even if that results in
Grantee serving less than fifty percent (50%) of the agreed upon locations in
exhibit A-2.
      2.   Any public institution, elementary and secondary school building or
public library building that receives cable service pursuant to this section
shall be responsible for any costs incurred by Grantee to repair or replace any
drops, outlets or equipment required to receive or distribute the cable
service.
   (D)   Consumer Protection And Service Standards: Grantee shall comply with
the FCC Customer Service Rules at 47 CFR § 76.309, as may be amended, and the
following:
      1.   Complaint Records: Subject to Grantee's need to maintain the privacy
of certain information, the Grantee shall at all times maintain a record of all
written complaints received regarding interruptions or degradation of cable
service and the resolution of such complaints, which shall be maintained for
one (1) year. Upon request, Grantee shall make available for the City's review
a written summary of such complaints and their resolution in accordance with
subsections
8-8-7 (C) and (D) herein. Upon request, Grantee will also make reports
available with respect to the objectively measurable service standards
established at 47 CFR § 76.309.
      2.   Additional Customer Service Requirements: The City expressly
reserves authority to adopt additional or modified customer service
requirements to the extent provided in applicable FCC regulations.
   (E)   Reserved:
   (F)   Sales Procedures: Grantee shall have the right to market door-to-door
during reasonable hours consistent with this Franchise and existing local
ordinances and regulation.
   (G)   Subscriber Contracts: Grantee shall, upon written request, provide the
City with any standard form residential subscriber contract utilized by Grantee
for cable service. If no such written contract exists, Grantee shall file with
the City a document completely and concisely stating the length and terms of
the subscriber contract offered to customers. The length and terms of any
standard form subscriber contract(s) shall be available for public inspection
during normal business hours. Upon request, a list of Grantee's current
subscriber rates and charges for cable service shall be maintained on file with
City, unless otherwise available on its consumer website, and shall be
available for public inspection. For purposes of this section, the availability
of this information on Grantee's website shall constitute compliance.
   (H)   Refund Policy: If a subscriber's cable service is interrupted or
discontinued, without cause, for twenty-four (24) or more consecutive hours,
Grantee shall, upon request by the subscriber, credit such subscriber pro rata
for such interruption. For this purpose, every month will be assumed to have
thirty (30) days.
   (I)   Late Fees: Grantee shall comply with all applicable laws with respect
to any assessment, charge, cost, fee or sum, however characterized, that
Grantee imposes upon a subscriber for late payment of a bill.
   (J)   Disputes: All subscribers and members of the general public may direct
complaints, regarding Grantee's service or performance to the chief
administrative officer of the City or the chief administrative officer's
designee, which may be a board of the City or the Commission. Grantee shall
endeavor to resolve subscriber complaints within thirty (30) days.
   (K)   Customer Bills: Customer bills shall be designed in such a way as to
present the information contained therein clearly and comprehensibly to
customers, and in a way that (a) is not misleading and (b) does not omit
material information. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 5.4
(d), above, Grantee may, in its sole discretion, consolidate costs on Customer
bills as may otherwise be permitted by Section 622(c) of the Cable Act (47
U.S.C. § 542(c)).
   (L)   Local Office And Repair Phone Line: Grantee shall maintain a
conveniently located customer service office which shall be staffed and open
during normal business hours. Grantee shall also maintain a local or toll-free
telephone subscriber complaint line, available to its subscribers twenty-four
(24) hours per day, seven (7) days a week. In the event Grantee elects to close
its local office, Grantee shall provide at least sixty (60) days prior written
notice to the City.
   (M)   Notification Of Complaint Procedure: Grantee shall have printed
clearly and prominently on each subscriber bill and in the customer service
agreement provided for in Section 5.3(e), the twenty-four (24) hour Grantee
phone number for subscriber complaints. Additionally, Grantee shall provide
information to customers concerning the procedures to follow when they are
unsatisfied with measures taken by Grantee to remedy their complaint. This
information will include the phone number of the City office or person
designated to handle complaints. Additionally, Grantee shall state that
complaints should be made to Grantee prior to contacting the City.
   (N)   Subscriber Privacy: Only for so long as and to the extent required by
Minnesota statutes section 238,084 Subd. 1(s), no signals including signals of
a Class IV Channel may be transmitted from a subscriber terminal for purposes
of monitoring individual viewing patterns or practices without the express
written permission of the subscriber.
   (O)   Grantee Identification: Grantee shall provide all customer service
technicians and all other Grantee employees entering private property with
appropriate picture identification so that Grantee employees may be easily
identified by the property owners and subscribers. (Ord. 023-773, 12-19-2022)
8-8-6: PUBLIC ACCESS PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Reserved:
   (B)   Public, Educational And Government Access Facilities: City or its
designee is hereby designated to operate, administer, promote, and manage the
PEG programming (hereinafter "PEG Access") to the cable system established
pursuant to this section, Grantee shall have no responsibility whatsoever for
PEG access except as expressly stated in this section and Exhibit B located in
subsection
8-8-11 (E).
   (C)   Grantee Support For PEG Usage: In accordance with the provisions of
the Cable Act and Minnesota statutes section 238,084, Grantee shall provide and
make available for PEG Access usage within the Service Area the following:
      1.   Provision and use of the funds and channels designated in Exhibit B
located in subsection
8-8-11 (E) of this Franchise for local educational and governmental programming
and access use in accordance with the requirements of Exhibit B.
      2.   Maintenance of the PEG access facilities and channels, and support
of educational and governmental programming to the extent specified in exhibit
B in subsection
8-8-11 (E) and exhibit D in subsection
8-8-11 (G). Exhibit D shall be prepared annually and submitted to Grantee
within ninety (90) days after the end of each calendar year.
      3.   PEG access facilities shall be operated by the City and PEG channels
shall be programmed by the City or its lawful designee. (Ord. 023-773, 12-19-
2022)
8-8-7: OPERATION AND ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Franchise Fee:
      1.   The City agrees to impose identical franchise fee obligations
(including but not limited to the franchise fee percentage and the gross
revenue definition on which the franchise fee is paid) on all additional
providers of service in the City. To the extent City fails to do so, Grantee
shall have the right to pursue Franchise modification pursuant to subsection 8-
8-2(C) herein. If City and Grantee fail to agree on modifications pursuant to
the process established in subsection 8-8-2(C)3, Grantee shall have the right
to eliminate or reduce any franchise fee obligations to an amount equivalent to
that imposed on a competing provider to make Grantee's franchise fee financial
obligations equivalent to that imposed on an Additional Provider.
      2.   During the term of the franchise, Grantee shall pay quarterly to the
City a franchise fee of five percent (5%) of gross revenues.
      3.   Each franchise fee payment shall be paid quarterly not later than
forty-five (45) days following the end of a given quarter and shall be
accompanied by a Franchise Fee Payment Worksheet substantially in the form laid
out in exhibit C in subsection
8-8-11 (F). Any franchise fees owing pursuant to this Franchise which remain
unpaid more than forty-five (45) days after the dates specified herein shall be
past due and subject to interest at an annual rate of the prime interest rate
during the period of underpayment plus one percent (1%).
      4.   Except as otherwise provided by law, no acceptance of any payment by
the City shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of
any claim the City may have for further or additional sums payable as a
franchise fee under this Franchise or for the performance of any other
obligation of the Grantee.
      5.   No more than once every three (3) years and upon thirty (30) days
prior written notice, City shall have the right to conduct an independent
review/audit of Grantee's records solely for the purpose of assessing Grantee's
compliance with the franchise fee obligation herein. In the event the audit
reveals an underpayment of five (5%) or more of the franchise fee amounts due
during the period audited, the Grantee shall reimburse the City's audit fees
and expenses in full.
   (B)   Reports:
      1.   Grantee shall provide City with an annual statement, within ninety
(90) days of the close of each calendar year end, reflecting the total amounts
of gross revenues and all payments, and computations of the franchise fee for
the previous calendar year.
      2.   Upon request, Grantee shall provide City with a summary of service
calls, identifying the number, general nature and disposition of such calls
shall be submitted to the City within thirty (30) days following its request in
a form reasonably acceptable to the City.
      3.   All reports and records required under this Franchise shall be
furnished at the sole expense of Grantee, except as otherwise provided in this
Franchise.
   (C)   Records Required And City's Right To Inspect:
      1.   Grantee shall at all times maintain a full and complete set of
plans, records and "as built" drawings and/or maps showing the location of the
Cable System installed or in use in the City, exclusive of subscriber service
drops and equipment provided in subscribers' homes.
      2.   Subject to the privacy provisions of the Cable Act and
confidentiality designation of certain records under the Minnesota Data
Practices Act, Minnesota statutes Ch. 13 or other applicable law, throughout
the term of this Franchise, the Grantee agrees that the City, upon reasonable
prior written notice of thirty (30) days to the Grantee, and no more than once
per calendar year, may review such of the Grantee's books and records regarding
the operation of the cable system and the provision of cable service in the
franchise area which are reasonably necessary to monitor and enforce Grantee's
compliance with the provisions of this Franchise ("Records"). Such notice shall
specifically reference the section(s) of the Franchise that are under review so
that the Grantee may organize the necessary records for easy access by the
City. Grantee shall make available for review such records as soon as possible
and in no event more than thirty (30) days unless Grantee explains that it is
not feasible to meet this timeline and provides a written explanation for the
delay and an estimated reasonable date for when such information will be
provided. All such records pertaining to financial matters that may be the
subject of an inspection by the City shall be retained by the Grantee for a
period of six (6) years, pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 541.05. The
Grantee shall not deny the City access to records on the basis that they are
under the control of any parent corporation, affiliated entity or a third
party, Grantee shall provide all records requested by the City or City's agent
in the following manner: 1) at a conference room in City Hall; or 2) at
Grantee's office located in or near the City; or 3) via mail or electronic
communication acceptable to the City and Grantee. All records shall be subject
to the provisions of this Franchise and applicable law regarding
confidentiality.
   (D)   Confidential Information:
      1.   Subject to applicable law, Grantee may choose to provide any
confidential records that it is obligated to make available to the City
pursuant to this Franchise, by allowing the City, or its designated
representative(s), to view the records at a mutually agreeable location and
without City obtaining its own copies of such records. Grantee may also choose
to provide any confidential or proprietary Records pursuant to a mutually
acceptable non-disclosure agreement with a City designated agent. The intent of
the parties is to work cooperatively to ensure that records reasonably
necessary for City's monitoring and enforcement of Franchise obligations are
available to City while protecting Grantee's confidential information all in
accordance with applicable law. To the extent that Grantee does provide records
directly to the City, City agrees not to disclose records except as required by
applicable law. Grantee shall be responsible for clearly and conspicuously
identifying the records as confidential or proprietary. Grantee acknowledges
that the Minnesota Data Practices Act, Minnesota statutes chapter 13 ("MDPA")
places limitations on the ability of the City to refuse public disclosure of
certain information unless such information meets the statutory requirements
set forth in the MDPA.
      2.   If the City believes it must release any such confidential or
proprietary records in the course of enforcing this Franchise, or for any other
reason including compliance with the MDPA, it shall advise Grantee in advance
so that Grantee may take appropriate steps to protect its interests. The City
agrees that, to the extent permitted by the MDPA and applicable law, it shall
deny access to any of Grantee's records marked confidential, as set forth
above, to any person and that it shall furnish only that portion of the
Grantee's records required under the MDPA and applicable law. (Ord. 023-773,
12-19-2022)
8-8-8: GENERAL FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Letter Of Credit:
      1.   At the time of acceptance of this franchise, Grantee shall deliver
to the City an irrevocable and unconditional letter of credit in the amount of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
      2.   In addition to recovery of any monies owed by Grantee to City or
damages to City as a result of any acts or omissions by Grantee pursuant to the
Franchise, City in compliance with this section may charge to and collect from
the letter of credit the following liquidated damages:
         (a)   For failure to provide data, documents, reports or information
required herein, the penalty shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per day for each
day, or part thereof, such failure occurs or continues.
         (b)   For failure to comply with construction, operation, customer
service, or maintenance standards, the penalty shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) per day for each day, or part thereof, such failure occurs or
continues.
         (c)   For failure to meet the PEG access requirements set forth in
section
8-8-6  of this Franchise, the penalty shall be one hundred dollars ($100.00)
per day for each day, or part thereof, such failure occurs or continues,
         (d)   For failure to comply with any of the provisions of this
Franchise, the penalty shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per day for each day, or
part thereof, such violation continues.
   Each violation of any provision of this Franchise shall be considered a
separate violation for which a separate penalty can be imposed.
   (B)   Procedure For Franchise Enforcement: Whenever the City finds that
Grantee has allegedly violated one (1) or more terms, conditions or provisions
of this Franchise, a written notice shall be given to Grantee. The written
notice shall describe in reasonable detail the alleged violation so as to
afford Grantee an opportunity to remedy the violation. Grantee shall have
thirty (30) days subsequent to receipt of the notice in which to correct the
violation. Grantee may, within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice, notify
the City that there is a dispute as to whether a violation or failure has, in
fact, occurred. Such notice by Grantee shall specify with particularity the
matters disputed by Grantee and shall stay the running of the above-described
time and the accrual of penalties.
      1.   City shall hear Grantee's dispute at a mutually agreed upon time.
Grantee shall have the right to speak and introduce evidence. The City shall
determine if Grantee has committed a violation and shall make written findings
of fact relative to its determination. If a violation is found, Grantee may
petition for reconsideration.
      2.   If after hearing the dispute, the claim is upheld by the City, then
Grantee shall have thirty (30) days within which to remedy the violation before
the City may seek to draw on the letter of credit.
      3.   Grantee may appeal any adverse decision by the City which shall stay
the City's right to draw on the letter of credit until such time as the action
has been finally adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Time For Correction Of Violation: The time for Grantee to correct any
alleged violation may be extended by the City if the necessary action to
correct the alleged violation is of such a nature or character as to require
more than thirty (30) days within which to perform provided Grantee commences
corrective action within fifteen (15) days and thereafter uses reasonable
diligence, as determined by the City, to correct the violation.
   (D)   Letter Of Credit Cap: If City draws upon the letter of credit or any
subsequent letter of credit delivered pursuant hereto, in whole or in part,
Grantee shall replace or replenish to its full amount up the maximum provided
by this subsection (D) the same within ten (10) days and shall deliver to City
a like replacement letter of credit or certification of replenishment for the
full amount stated in subsection (A)1 as a substitution of the previous letter
of credit. This shall be a continuing obligation for any draws upon the letter
of credit up to an aggregate total of twenty-five thousand dollars ($25,000.00)
over the Franchise term.
   (E)   Liability Insurance:
      1.   Grantee shall with its acceptance of this Franchise, and at its sole
expense, take out and maintain during the term of this Franchise commercial
general liability insurance with a company licensed to do business in the State
of Minnesota that shall protect the Grantee, the City and their officials,
officers, directors, employees and agents from claims which may arise from
operations under this Franchise, whether such operations be by the Grantee, its
officials, officers, directors, employees and agents or any subcontractors of
Grantee. This liability insurance shall include, but shall not be limited to,
protection against claims arising from bodily and personal injury and damage to
property, resulting from Grantee's vehicles, products and operations, The
amount of insurance for single limit coverage applying to bodily and personal
injury and property damage shall not be less than three million dollars
($3,000,000.00) which may be satisfied by an umbrella liability policy. The
following shall be included in the liability policy:
         (a)   The policy shall provide coverage on an "occurrence" basis.
         (b)   The policy shall cover personal injury as well as bodily injury.
         (c)   The policy shall cover blanket contractual liability subject to
the standard universal exclusions of contractual liability included in the
carrier's standard endorsement as to bodily injuries, personal injuries and
property damage.
         (d)   Property damage liability shall be afforded.
         (e)   The City shall be named as an additional insured on the policy.
         (f)   An endorsement shall be provided which states that the coverage
is primary insurance and that no other insurance maintained by the City will be
called upon to contribute to a loss under this coverage.
         (g)   Standard form of cross-liability shall be afforded.
      2.   Cancellation notice will be provided for any reason other than non-
payment of premium and material alteration and requires the City provide
Grantee a valid contact name and e-mail address (with any changes to the
contact name or e-mail address being the responsibility of the City).
      3.   Grantee shall submit to City documentation of the required
insurance, including a certificate of insurance evidencing these requirements.
   (F)   Indemnification:
      1.   Grantee shall indemnify, defend and hold City, its officers, boards,
commissions, agents and employees (collectively the "Indemnified Patties")
harmless from and against any and all lawsuits, claims, causes of action,
actions, liabilities, demands, damages, judgments, settlements, disability,
losses, expenses (including attorney's fees and disbursements of counsel) and
costs of any nature that any of the Indemnified Parties may at any time suffer,
sustain or incur arising out of, based upon or in any way connected with the
grant of this Franchise, the operation of Grantee's System, the breach by
Grantee of its obligations under this Franchise and/or the activities of
Grantee, its subcontractor, employees and agents hereunder. Grantee shall be
solely responsible for and shall indemnify, defend and hold the Indemnified
Parties harmless from and against any and all matters relative to payment of
Grantee's employees, including compliance with Social Security and
withholdings.
      2.   The indemnification obligations of Grantee set forth in this
Franchise are not limited in any way by the amount or type of damages or
compensation payable by or for Grantee under Workers' Compensation, disability
or other employee benefit acts, acceptance of insurance certificates required
under this Franchise, or the terms, applicability or limitations of any
insurance held by Grantee.
      3.   City does not, and shall not, waive any rights against Grantee which
it may have by reason of the indemnification provided for in this Franchise,
because of the acceptance by City, or the deposit with City by Grantee, of any
of the insurance policies described in this Franchise.
      4.   The indemnification of City by Grantee provided for in this
Franchise shall apply to all damages and claims for damages of any kind
suffered by reason of any of the Grantee's operations referred to in this
Franchise, regardless of whether or not such insurance policies shall have been
determined to be applicable to any such damages or claims for damages.
      5.   Grantee shall not be required to indemnify City for negligence or
misconduct on the part of City or its officials, boards, commissions, agents,
or employees. City shall hold Grantee harmless, subject to the limitations in
Minnesota statutes chapter 466, for any damage resulting from the negligence or
misconduct of the City or its officials, boards, commissions, agents, or
employees in utilizing any PEG Channels, equipment, or facilities and for any
such negligence or misconduct by City in connection with work performed by City
and permitted by this Franchise, on or adjacent to the cable system.
   (G)   Process: In order for City to assert its rights to be indemnified,
defended, and held harmless, City must, with respect to each claim:
      1.   Promptly notify Grantee within ten (10) business days in writing of
any claim or legal proceeding which gives rise to such right;
      2.   Afford Grantee the opportunity to participate in and fully control
any compromise, settlement or other resolution or disposition of any claim or
proceeding; and
      3.   Fully cooperate with reasonable requests of Grantee, at Grantee's
expense, in its participation in, and control, compromise, settlement or
resolution or other disposition of such claim or proceeding subject to
subsection (G)2 above.
   (H)   Grantee's Insurance: Grantee shall not commence any Cable System
reconstruction work or permit any subcontractor to commence work until all
insurance required under this Franchise has been obtained. Said insurance shall
be maintained in full force and effect until the expiration of this Franchise.
   (I)   Workers' Compensation Insurance: Grantee shall obtain and maintain
Workers' Compensation Insurance for all of Grantee's employees, and in case any
work is sublet, Grantee shall require any subcontractor similarly to provide
Workers' Compensation Insurance for all of their employees, all in compliance
with State laws. Grantee shall provide the City with a certificate of insurance
indicating Workers' Compensation coverage upon its acceptance of this
Franchise. (Ord. 023-773, 12-19-2022)
8-8-9: SALE, ABANDONMENT, TRANSFER AND REVOCATION:
   (A)   Abandonment Of Service: Grantee may not abandon the system or any
portion thereof without having first given three (3) months written notice to
City. Grantee may not abandon the system or any portion thereof without
compensating City for damages resulting from the abandonment.
   (B)   Removal After Termination Or Forfeiture:
      1.   In the event of termination or forfeiture of the Franchise, City
shall have the right to require Grantee to remove all or any portion of the
system from all rights-of-way and public property within City associated solely
with the provision of cable service; provided, however, that if Grantee is
providing services other than cable services or pursuant to Minnesota statutes
sections 237.01 et seq., City shall not require the removal of the system.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed either to grant or to preclude the
provision of services other than cable services.
      2.   If Grantee has failed to commence removal of system, or such part
thereof as was designated by City, within one hundred twenty (120) days after
written notice of City's demand for removal is given, or if Grantee has failed
to complete such removal within twelve (12) months after written notice of
City's demand for removal is given, City shall have the right to declare all
right, title, and interest to the system to be in City with all rights of
ownership including, but not limited to, the right to operate the system or
transfer the system to another for operation by it pursuant to the provisions
of 47 U.S.C. § 547 (1989).
   (C)   Sale Or Transfer Of Franchise:
      1.   No sale, transfer, or assignment of this Franchise, or "fundamental
corporate change", as defined in Minnesota statutes section 238.083, in
Grantee, shall take place until a written request is filed with City for its
approval, provided, however, that said approval shall not be required where
Grantee grants a security interest in its Franchise and assets to secure an
indebtedness.
      2.   City shall have thirty (30) days from the time of the request to
reply in writing and indicate its determination that a public hearing is
necessary due to potential adverse effect on Grantee's subscribers resulting
from the sale or transfer. Such determination shall be expressed in writing.
      3.   If a public hearing is deemed necessary pursuant to subsection (C)2
above, such hearing shall be commenced within thirty (30) days of such
determination and notice of any such hearing shall be given in accordance with
local law or fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing by publishing notice
thereof once in a newspaper of general circulation in City. The notice shall
contain the date, time and place of the hearing and shall briefly state the
substance of the action to be considered by City.
      4.   Thereafter, City shall approve or deny in writing the sale or
transfer request, City shall set forth in writing its reason(s) for denying
approval. City shall not unreasonably withhold its approval.
      5.   The parties to the sale or transfer of the Franchise only, without
the inclusion of the system in which substantial construction has commenced,
shall establish that the sale or transfer of only the Franchise will be in the
public interest.
      6.   Any sale or transfer of stock in Grantee so as to create a new
controlling interest in the system shall be subject to the requirements of this
subsection (C). The term "controlling interest" as used herein is not limited
to majority stock ownership, but includes actual working control in whatever
manner exercised.
      7.   In no event shall a transfer or assignment of ownership or control
be approved without the transferee becoming a signatory to this Franchise and
assuming all rights and obligations there under, and assuming all other rights
and obligations of the transferor to the City.
      8.   In the event of any proposed sale or assignment pursuant to
subsection (C)1 of this section City shall have the right of first refusal of
any bona fide offer to purchase the system. Bona fide offer, as used in this
section, means an offer received by the Grantee which it intends to accept
subject to City's rights under this section. This written offer must be
conveyed to City along with the Grantee's written acceptance of the offer
contingent upon the rights of City provided for in this section. City shall be
deemed to have waived its rights under this section in the following
circumstances:
         (a)   If it does not indicate to Grantee in writing, within sixty (60)
days of notice of a proposed sale or assignment, its intention to exercise its
right of purchase; or
         (b)   It approves the assignment or sale of the Franchise as provided
within this section.
   (D)   Reservation Of Rights: City and Grantee reserve all rights that they
may possess under applicable laws unless expressly waived herein. (Ord. 023-
773, 12-19-2022)
8-8-10: MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Franchise Renewal: Any renewal of this Franchise shall be in
accordance with applicable laws. The term of any renewed Franchise shall be
limited to a period not to exceed fifteen (15) years.
   (B)   Work Of Contractors And Subcontractors: All provisions of this
Franchise shall apply to any subcontractor or others performing any work or
services on Grantee's behalf pursuant to the provisions of this Franchise.
Grantee shall be responsible for ensuring that the work of contractors and
subcontractors is performed consistent with the Franchise and applicable laws
and shall indemnify the City pursuant to subsection
8-8-8 (E).
   (C)   Governing Law: This Franchise shall be deemed to be executed in the
State of Minnesota, and shall be governed in all respects, including validity,
interpretation and effect, and construed in accordance with, the Cable Act and
the laws of the State of Minnesota, as applicable to contracts entered into and
performed entirely within the State.
   (D)   Non-Enforcement By City: Grantee shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this Franchise by reason of
any failure of the City to enforce prompt compliance.
   (E)   Captions: The paragraph captions and headings in this Franchise are
for convenience and reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the
meaning of interpretation of this Franchise.
   (F)   Calculation Of Time: Where the performance or doing of any act, duty,
matter, payment or thing is required hereunder and the period of time or
duration for the performance is prescribed and fixed herein, the time shall be
computed so as to exclude the first and include the last day of the prescribed
or fixed period or duration of time. When the last day of the period falls on
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be omitted from the
computation and the next business day shall be the last day of the period.
   (G)   Survival Of Terms: Upon the termination or forfeiture of the
Franchise, Grantee shall no longer have the right to occupy the rights-of-way
for the purpose of providing cable service. However, Grantee's obligations to
the City shall survive according to their terms.
   (H)   Severability: If any provision of this Franchise is held by any
Governmental Authority of competent jurisdiction, to be invalid as conflicting
with any applicable laws now or hereafter in effect, or is held by such
Governmental Authority to be modified in any way in order to conform to the
requirements of any such applicable laws, such provision shall be considered a
separate, distinct, and independent part of this Franchise, and such holding
shall not affect the validity and enforceability of all other provisions
hereof. In the event that such applicable laws are subsequently repealed,
rescinded, amended or otherwise changed, so that the provision hereof which had
been held invalid or modified is no longer in conflict with such laws, said
provision shall thereupon return to full force and effect and shall thereafter
be binding on City and Grantee, provided that City shall give Grantee thirty
(30) days written notice of such change before requiring compliance with said
provision or such longer period of time as may be reasonably required for
Grantee to comply with such provision.
   (I)   Force Majeure: In the event Grantee's performance of any of the terms,
conditions, obligations or requirements of this Franchise is prevented or
impaired due to any cause beyond its reasonable control, such inability to
perform shall be deemed to be excused for the period of such inability and no
penalties or sanctions shall be imposed as a result thereof. Such causes beyond
Grantee's reasonable control shall include, but shall not be limited to, acts
of God, civil emergencies and labor unrest or strikes, untimely delivery of
equipment, inability of Grantee to obtain access to an individual's property
and inability of Grantee to secure all necessary permits to utilize utility
poles and conduit so long as Grantee utilizes due diligence to timely obtain
said permits. (Ord. 023-773, 12-19-2022)
8-8-11: PUBLICATION EFFECTIVE DATE; ACCEPTANCE AND EXHIBITS:
   (A)   Publication; Effective Date: This Franchise shall be published in
accordance with applicable law. The effective date of this Franchise shall be
the date specified in subsection
8-8-1 (B), Definitions.
   (B)   Acceptance: Grantee shall accept this Franchise within thirty (30) of
its enactment by the City Council, unless the time for acceptance is extended
by City. Such acceptance by the Grantee shall be deemed the grant of this
Franchise for all purposes. In the event acceptance does not take place, this
Franchise and any and all rights previously granted to Grantee shall be null
and void.
      1.   Upon acceptance of this Franchise, Grantee shall be bound by all the
terms and conditions contained herein.
      2.   Grantee shall accept this Franchise in the following manner:
         (a)   This Franchise will be properly executed and acknowledged by
Grantee and delivered to City.
         (b)   With its acceptance, Grantee shall also deliver any performance
bond and insurance certificates required herein that have not previously been
delivered.
      3.   Summary Approved: The City Council hereby determines that the text
of the summary marked "Official Summary of Ordinance No. 023-773", a copy of
which is attached hereto clearly informs the public of the intent and effect of
the ordinance. The City Council further determines that publication of the
title and such summary will clearly inform the public of the intent and effect
of the ordinance.
      4.   Filing: The City Clerk shall file a copy of this ordinance in her
office, which copy shall be available for inspection by any persons during
regular office hours.
      5.   Publication: The City Clerk shall publish the title of this
ordinance and the official summary in the official newspaper of the City with
notice that a printed copy of the ordinance is available for inspection by any
person during regular office hours at the Office of the City Clerk.
   (C)   Exhibit A-1-Hiawatha Broadband Communications List:
   (D)   EXHIBIT A-2 - Commission Universal List:
NAME ADDRESS CITY
NAME                                      ADDRESS               CITY
FARMINGTON CITY HALL                      430 Third Street      FARMINGTON
BOECKMAN MIDDLE SCHOOL (ISD 192 HEAD END) 800 DENMARK AVE.      FARMINGTON
FAA CENTER                                512 DIVISION ST       FARMINGTON
FARMINGTON CENTRAL MAINTENANCE FACILITY   19650 MUNICIPAL DRIVE FARMINGTON
FARMINGTON CITY HALL                      430 THIRD STREET      FARMINGTON
FARMINGTON FIRE STATION 1                 21625 DENMARK AVE     FARMINGTON
FARMINGTON FIRE STATION 2                 19695 MUNICIPAL DR    FARMINGTON
FARMINGTON LIBRARY                        508 THIRD ST          FARMINGTON
FARMINGTON LIQUORS 1                      21625 DENMARK AVE     FARMINGTON
FARMINGTON LIQUORS 2*                     18350 PILOT KNOB ROAD FARMINGTON
FARMINGTON POLICE DEPT                    19500 MUNICIPAL DR    FARMINGTON
FARMINGTON RAMBLING RIVER CENTER          325 OAK ST            FARMINGTON
FARMINGTON SCHMITZ-MAKI ICE ARENA         114 SPRUCE ST         FARMINGTON
AKIN ROAD ELEMENTARY SCHOOL               5231 195TH ST W       FARMINGTON
DODGE MIDDLE SCHOOL                       4200 208TH ST W       FARMINGTON
EXTENDED CAMPUS                           211 3RD ST            FARMINGTON
FARMINGTON ELEMENTARY SCHOOL              500 MAPLE ST          FARMINGTON
FARMINGTON HIGH SCHOOL*                   20655 FLAGSTAFF AVE   FARMINGTON
GATEWAY ACADEMY                           510 WALNUT ST         FARMINGTON
IDEA PROGRAM                              304 SPRUCE ST         FARMINGTON
MEADOW VIEW ELEMENTARY SCHOOL             6100 195TH ST W       FARMINGTON
RIVER VIEW ELEMENTARY SCHOOL              4100 208TH ST W       FARMINGTON
 
   (E)   Exhibit B:
PEG ACCESS PROVISIONS
      1.   PEG Channels and Regional Channel.
         (a)   City or its designee is hereby designated to operate,
administer, promote, and manage PEG access provided over the Cable System. All
Subscribers who receive all or any part of the total services offered on the
System shall receive such Channels at no additional service charge.
         (b)   Except as provided in Section 1(c), Grantee shall make available
Channels for PEG access use (government, educational and public) as indicated
in Section 2, below. City's use of the PEG Channels shall be for non-commercial
PEG purposes only and shall be programmed in City's sole discretion. Grantee
shall have no responsibility for the content, operations or use of the PEG
Channels other than as specified herein. From and after the Effective Date, and
except as this Franchise expressly provides otherwise, the City shall be
responsible for all production and distribution costs associated with the
provision of any PEG Channel, regardless of format, including but not limited
to the cost of any equipment or facilities necessary to produce, transport, or
transmit the PEG Channels from their signal origination point(s) to the
designated location(s) indicated in Section 3(c) below for insertion on
Grantee's System. The City may rename, reprogram, or otherwise change the use
of these PEG Channels in its sole discretion, provided they remain solely for
non-commercial PEG purposes and are operated in accordance with law.
         (c)   City may request additional Channel(s) beyond the provisions of
Section 1(b) in accordance with applicable law, including Minn. Stat. §238.084
which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.
         (d)   The following govems the Grantee's use of the PEG Channels for
other services if a Channel is not being fully utilized for PEG purposes:
            (i)   If a PEG Channel is not "fully utilized'' at any time during
the term of this Agreement in accordance with Section 1(d)(ii), the Grantee may
temporarily use the PEG Channel no less than sixty (60) days after submitting a
written notice of such use to the City.
            (ii)   The PEG Channel shall be considered fully utilized if
programming is delivered over it more than thirty-six (36) hours per week on
average over a six (6) month period, excluding character generated,
programming, static bulletin boai.d type programming, or programming repeated
more than seven (7) times in a single week (Mon-Sun).
            (iii)   If the PEG Channel is being used by the Grantee in
accordance with subsection (d)(i) and (ii), and the City has determined in good
faith that it or its designated PEG provider has the ability to fully utilize
the Channel again, then the City shall request return of the PEG Channel by
delivering written notice of same to the Grantee, which shall include adequate
assurances by City of its ability to fully utilize the Channel. In such event,
the PEG Channel shall be returned to the City for PEG programming within ninety
(90) days after receipt by the Grantee of such written notice.
         (e)   Grantee shall designate channel 6 for uniform regional channel
usage only for so long as required by Minn. Stat. § 238.43.
      2.   PEG Carriage Requirements.
         (a)   Nothing herein precludes the Grantee from charging for any
equipment needed to receive Basic Cable Service.
         (b)   Grantee shall provide three (3) individual PEG Channels to all
Subscribers in the City. Grantee shall further provide facilities and a
connection to transport programming from Farmington's City Hall to Grantee's
headend for broadcasting of the programming on the three (3) individual PEG
Channels. The City shall produce or otherwise provide and transmit all the PEG
channels in high definition ("HD") and Grantee shall transport the Government,
Education, and Public Access Channels from Farmington City Hall to Grantee's
headend in HD and broadcast the appropriate programming streams in HD provided
that the signals are received by the Grantee in HD and meet Grantee's technical
specifications for HD channels.
         (c)   In the event the City or Commission ceases to provide PEG
programming in HD format or Grantee ceases to provide any channels in HD in the
City, Grantee shall no longer be obligated to provide any HD PEG Channels.
         (d)   The City acknowledges that receipt of an HD format Channel may
require Subscribers to buy or lease special equipment, or pay additional HD
charges applicable to all HD services provided by Grantee.
         (e)   The use of specific PEG Channel numbers in this Exhibit B shall
not limit Grantee's rights to relocate the PEG Channels pursuant to Section 3
(b) herein.
      3.   PEG Channel Locations and Origination Sites.
         (a)   Grantee shall cablecast the PEG Channels on the following
Channel designations: Channels 180, 187, and 189.
         (b)   Grantee shall give Subscribers at least sixty (60) Days prior
wdtten notice of any relocation of the PEG Channels to different Channel
numbers, Prior to relocation, Grantee shall inform Subscribers of the new
Channel locations through bill messages or inserts, and shall list the new
Channel locations on the on-air program guide. The parties acknowledge that
Grantee contracts with a third party or parties to provide on-screen and on-
line program listings, It shall be the responsibility of the City, or its
designee, to provide such detailed program information to the third-party
entity or entities that produce such listings for Grantee in accordance with
each such entity's normal format and scheduling requirements and at the City's
cost.
         (c)   The Grantee shall provide two-way capability permitting live
transmission of PEG Channels and prngramming upstream to Grantee's headend only
at the following location:
         Farmington City Hall, 430 3rd Street, Farmington, MN
         (d)   The City shall have the right to extend additional two-way
connections on mutually acceptable terms and conditions from public
institutional sites to permit live transmission of PEG programming on PEG
Channels to Grantee's headend and onto the System at the City's expense, The
City may use the proceeds of the PEG Fee to pay such construction or PEG
equipment and transmission costs.
      4.   PEG Technical Quality.
         (a)   The PEG Channels shall meet FCC technical standards including
those applicable to the carriage of PEG Channels, provided, however, that the
Grantee is not responsible for the production quality of PEG programming
provided to the Demarcation Point.
         (b)   Upon request, throughout the term of the Franchise, Grantee
shall provide updated contact information for a local technical representative,
who shall be available to the City for consultation on technical matters as the
need may arise. This technical representative shall be accessed through a
direct telephone number available to the City (as opposed to a general public
number). The Grantee shall not impose any unreasonable fees or charges to the
City for this technical consultation. If such consultation is insufficient to
diagnose the matter in question, within twenty-four (24) hours of a written
request from City to the Grantee identifying a technical problem with a PEG
Channel signal and requesting assistance, Grantee will provide, free of charge
to City, diagnostic services to determine whether or not a problem with a PEG
signal is the result of matters for which Grantee is responsible) and if so,
Grantee will take prompt corrective action, free of charge to City, subject to
the limitations on Grantee's responsibilities outlined herein. If the problem
persists and there is a reasonable dispute about the cause, then the parties
shall meet with engineering representation from Grantee and the City in order
to mutually determine the course of action to remedy the problem. Nothing
herein shall be construed to obligate Grantee to correct problems or take any
other action caused by City's signal, City's network or internal wiring, City's
equipment, PEG access program content or other issues within City's reasonable
control.
         (c)   Grantee shall comply with applicable law regarding the carriage
of PEG Channels.
      5.   Channel Guide for PEG Channels. Grantee shall make its programming
guide vendor available to the Commission, at the Commission's cost, to
incorporate programming information about the Commission's PEG Channels in such
guide.
      6.   PEG Financial Support.
         (a)   Grantee shall collect a PEG fee of seventy-five cents ($0.75)
per Subscriber per month (the "PEG Fee") commencing no later than sixty (60)
days after the Effective Date provided that the actual amount of the PEG Fee
shall be adjusted up or down as of June 30, 2023 to match the PEG fee collected
and remitted by the incumbent Cable Service provider. Any increase or decrease
of the PEG Fee shall be effective as of January 1, 2024, and the same PEG Fee
shall apply to all providers. For purposes of this PEG Fee, "Subscriber" shall
not include any Person who receives Cable Service on a complimentary basis or
otherwise does not pay for the Cable Service.
         (b)   Grantee shall remit the amounts collected from PEG Fees
quarterly to the City, not later than forty-five (45) days following the end of
a given quarter.
         (c)   The Cities shall use the proceeds of the PEG Payment only for
capital support for PEG. In the event any amount of the PEG Payment is not used
to support PEG capital, that amount may be offset against the Franchise Fee in
accordance with applicable law,
      7.   Level Terms.
      If any franchise or authorization with an Additional Provider(s) requires
such Provider(s) to collect a PEG Payment or PEG Fee that is less than that
required in Section 6(a) and 6(b) above, Grantee may reduce its PEG Payment or
PEG Fee to an amount equivalent to the PEG Payment or PEG Fee collected by such
Additional Provider(s).
   (F)   Exhibit C:
FRANCHISE FEE PAYMENT WORKSHEET
TRADE SECRET- CONFIDENTIAL
                     Month/Year Month/Year Month/Year Total
Cable Service Revenue
Installation Charge
Franchise Fee Revenue
Advertising Revenue
Home Shopping Revenue
Other Revenue
Equipment rental
REVENUE
Fee Calculated
 
Fee Factor:   5%
   (G)   Exhibit D:
                                      ANNUAL REPORT FOR PUBLIC, EDUCATION AND
                                       GOVERNMENT (PEG) CAPITAL SUPPORT
City of                                     
DATE OF REPORT                              
Equipment Name/Type                         
Manufacturer Name                           
Model Number                                
Purpose or Primary Use of Equipment         
Equipment Location (full address, room      
number)
Cost $$                                     
In a separate document, describe the (1) Present cable-related needs of the
community; (2) Operational support City provides to operate the PEG Access
Channel; (3) Current level of programming on the PEG Access Channels,
indicating how many hours of programming are:
(i) local; (ii) character generated or bulletin board-type programming; or
(iii) repeated more than seven (7) times in a single week (Mon-Sun).
 
(Ord. 023-773, 12-19-2022)
CHAPTER 8A
CHARTER CABLE FRANCHISE
SECTION:
8-8A-1: Short Title And Definitions
8-8A-2: Grant Of Authority And General Provisions
8-8A-3: Construction Standards
8-8A-4: Design Provisions
8-8A-5: Service Provisions
8-8A-6: Public Access Provisions
8-8A-7: Operation And Administration Provisions
8-8A-8: General Financial And Insurance Provisions
8-8A-9: Sale, Abandonment, Transfer And Revocation
8-8A-10: Miscellaneous Provisions
8-8A-11: Publication Effective Date; Acceptance And Exhibits
8-8A-1:   SHORT TITLE AND DEFINITIONS:
   (A)   Short Title: This chapter shall be known and cited as the CHARTER
CABLE FRANCHISE ORDINANCE.
   (B)   Definitions: For purposes of this franchise, the following terms,
phrases, words and their derivations shall have the meaning ascribed to them by
the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, as amended from time to time (the
"Cable Act"), unless otherwise defined herein. Words used in the present tense
include the future, words in the plural number include the singular number, and
words in the singular number include the plural number. All capitalized terms
used in the definition of any other term shall have their meaning as otherwise
defined in this section. The words "shall" and "will" are mandatory and "may"
is permissive. Words not defined shall be given their common and ordinary
meaning.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE: Means any service tier which includes the lawful
retransmission of local television broadcast signals and any public,
educational, and governmental access programming required by the franchise to
be carried on the basic tier. Basic Cable Service as defined herein shall be
the definition set forth in 47 USC section 522(3).
   CABLE ACT: Means the Cable Communications Act of 1984 as amended, 47 USC
section 521 et seq.
   CABLE SERVICE OR SERVICE: Means:
      1.   The one-way transmission to Subscribers of: a) Video Programming, or
b) Other Programming Service; and
      2.   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection
or use of such Video Programming or Other Programming Service. Cable Service as
defined herein shall be the definition set forth in 47 USC section 522(6).
CABLE SYSTEM OR SYSTEM: Means a facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception and control
equipment that is designed to provide Cable Service which includes Video
Programming and which is provided to multiple Subscribers within a community,
but such term does not include:
      1.   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one or more television broadcast stations;
      2.   A facility that serves Subscribers without using any public Rights-
of-Way;
      3.   A facility of a common carrier which is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of 47 USC section 201 et seq., except that such
facility shall be considered a Cable System (other than for purposes of 47 USC
section 541(c)) to the extent such facility is used in the transmission of
Video Programming directly to Subscribers; unless the extent of such use is
solely to provide interactive on-demand services;
      4.   An open video system that complies with 47 USC section 573; or
      5.   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating its
electric utility system.
Cable System as defined herein shall be the definition set forth in 47 USC
section 522(7).
   CHANNEL OR CABLE CHANNEL: Means a portion of the electromagnetic frequency
spectrum which is used in a Cable System and which is capable of delivering a
television channel.
   CITIES: Means the Cities of Apple Valley, Farmington and Rosemount,
Minnesota collectively.
   CITY: Means the City of Farmington, Minnesota.
   CITY CODE: Means the Municipal Code of the City of Farmington, as may be
amended from time to time.
   COMMISSION: Means the joint powers body formed by the Cities of Apple
Valley, Farmington and Rosemount, Minnesota.
   CONVERTER: Means an electronic device which converts signals to a frequency
acceptable to a television receiver of a Subscriber.
   COUNCIL: Means the City Council of the City of Farmington, Minnesota.
   DAY: Unless otherwise specified shall mean a calendar Day.
   DROP: Means the cable that connects the ground block on the Subscriber's
location to the nearest distribution point of the System.
   EFFECTIVE DATE: Shall mean July 1, 2018.
   FCC: Means the Federal Communications Commission and any legally appointed,
designated or elected agent or successor.
   FRANCHISE: Means this franchise and the regulatory and contractual
relationship established hereby.
   FRANCHISE FEE: Means, in accordance with 47 USC section 542(g), any tax,
fee, or assessment of any kind imposed by the City or other Governmental
Authority on Grantee or cable Subscriber, or both, solely because of their
status as such. The term "Franchise Fee" does not include: 1) any tax, fee, or
assessment of general applicability (including any such tax, fee, or assessment
imposed on both utilities and cable operators or their services but not
including a tax, fee, or assessment which is unduly discriminatory against
cable operators or Subscribers); 2) capital costs which are required by the
Franchise to be incurred by Grantee for PEG Access facilities; 3) requirements
or charges incidental to the award or enforcement of the Franchise, including
payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit, insurance,
indemnification, penalties, or liquidated damages; or 4) any fee imposed under
title 17 of the United States Code.
   GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY: Means any court or other Federal, State, county,
municipal or other governmental department, commission, board, agency or
instrumentality.
   GRANTEE: Is Charter Cable Partners, LLC l/k/a Charter Communications, its
lawful successors, transferees or assignees.
   GROSS REVENUES: Means any and all revenues actually received by the Grantee,
as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
("GAAP"), from the operation of the Cable System to provide Cable Services in
the Service Area. Gross Revenues shall not include any taxes, fees or
assessments of general applicability imposed or assessed by any Governmental
Authority, launch fees, tower rent, network capacity and facilities rent for
the provision of non-Cable Services (including but not limited to voice or data
services), investment income, bad debt, credits, refunds, any amounts collected
from Subscribers for deposits, FCC fees or PEG fees. A Franchise Fee is not
such a tax, fee or assessment. The City acknowledges and accepts that Grantee
shall maintain its books and records in accordance with GAAP.
   The parties acknowledge that the Grantee may offer a bundle or package of
Cable Services and non- Cable Services at a discounted rate. In order to
calculate Gross Revenues, the Grantee will allocate revenues between Cable
Services (which are subject to the Franchise Fee) and non-Cable Services (which
are not subject to the Franchise Fee but may be subject to other fees and/or
taxes) included in the bundle or package of services. The Grantee shall
apportion the revenues generated from bundled or packaged services on a
proportionate pro rata basis among the services offered unless such allocation
methodology is directly in conflict with GAAP, in which case Grantee shall
allocate bundled revenues in accordance with GAAP, and in no event shall the
Grantee allocate the revenues to evade its Franchise Fee obligations under this
Franchise or disproportionately reduce Gross Revenues.
   INSTALLATION: Means the connection of the System from distribution cable to
the point of connection, including Standard Installations and custom
Installations.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS: Means those hours during which most similar
businesses in the City are open to serve customers. In all cases, "Normal
Business Hours" must include some evening hours at least one night per week
and/or some weekend hours. Cable System Normal Business Hours as defined herein
shall be the definition set forth in 47 CFR section 76.309(d).
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS: Means those service conditions which are within
the control of the Grantee. Those conditions which are not within the control
of the Grantee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages, and severe or unusual
weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily within the control of
the Grantee include, but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view
events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and
maintenance or upgrade of the Cable System. Normal Operating Conditions as
defined herein shall be the definition set forth in 47 CFR section 76.309(d).
   OTHER PROGRAMMING SERVICE: Means information that a cable operator makes
available to all Subscribers generally. Other Programming Services as defined
herein shall be the definition set forth in 47 USC section 522(14).
   PEG: Means public, educational and governmental.
   PERSON: Means any individual or any association, firm, general partnership,
limited partnership, joint stock company, joint venture, trust, corporation,
limited liability company or other legally recognized entity, private or
public, whether for- profit or not-for-profit.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY, RIGHTS-OF-WAY OR ROW: Means the area on, below, or above a
public roadway, highway, street, cartway, bicycle lane, and public sidewalk in
which the City has an interest, including other dedicated Rights-of-Way for
travel purposes and utility easements of local government units including the
City.
   SERVICE AREA: Means the entire geographic area within the City as it is now
constituted or may in the future be constituted, unless otherwise specified in
this Franchise.
   STANDARD INSTALLATION: Means any residential Installation which can be
completed using an aerial Drop of one hundred twenty five feet (125').
   STATE: Means the State of Minnesota.
   SUBSCRIBER: Means any Person who lawfully elects to subscribe to Cable
Service via the System. Subscriber as defined herein shall be the definition
set forth in 47 CFR section 76.5(ee).
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING: Means programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by, a television broadcast station. Video
Programming as defined herein shall be the definition set forth in 47 USC
section 522(20).
   (C)   Written Notice: All notices, reports or demands required or permitted
to be given under this franchise shall be in writing and shall be deemed to be
given when delivered personally to the party designated below, or when five (5)
days have elapsed after it has been deposited in the United States mail in a
sealed envelope, with registered or certified mail, postage prepaid thereon, or
on the next business day if sent by express mail or nationally recognized
overnight air courier addressed to the party to which notice, report or demand
is being given, as follows:
      If to City:
         City of Farmington
         430 Third Street
         Farmington, MN 55024
      If to grantee:
         Charter Communications
         Attn: Vice President, Legal Operations
         12405 Powerscourt Drive
         St. Louis, MO 63131
      With a courtesy copy to:
         Charter Communications
         16900 Cedar Avenue South
         Rosemount, MN 55068
   Such addresses may be changed by either party upon notice to the other party
given as provided in this section. (Ord. 018-739, 6-18-2018)
8-8A-2:   GRANT OF AUTHORITY AND GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Franchise Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to construct,
install, operate or maintain a cable system or to offer cable service in the
City unless such person or the person for whom such action is being taken shall
have first obtained and shall currently hold a valid cable services franchise.
The City shall at all times comply with the level playing field statute at
Minnesota Statutes section 238.08 and any other applicable State or Federal
level playing field requirements.
   (B)   Grant Of Franchise:
      1.   This nonexclusive franchise is granted pursuant to the terms and
conditions contained herein. The City hereby authorizes grantee to occupy or
use the City's rights-of-way subject to: a) the provisions of this non-
exclusive franchise to provide cable service within the City; and b) all
generally applicable nondiscriminatory and competitively neutral provisions of
this Code. Nothing in this franchise shall be construed to prohibit grantee
from: a) providing services other than cable services; or b) challenging any
exercise of the City's legislative or regulatory authority in an appropriate
forum. The City hereby reserves all of its rights to regulate such other
services to the extent not prohibited by applicable law and no provision herein
shall be construed to limit or give up any City right to regulate.
      2.   The City shall endeavor to require developers of future subdivisions
to allow and accommodate the construction of the system as part of any
provisions for utilities to serve such subdivisions.
      3.   The grantee agrees to comply with the terms of any lawfully adopted
generally applicable local ordinance related to the safety, health, and welfare
of the public or use of rights-of- way, to the extent that the provisions of
the ordinance do not conflict with this franchise. This franchise is a contract
and except as to those changes which are the result of the City's lawful
exercise of its general police power, the City may not take any unilateral
action which materially changes the explicit mutual promises in this contract.
Any changes to this franchise must be made in writing signed by the grantee and
the City. In the event of any conflict between this franchise and any City
ordinance or regulation that is not generally applicable, this franchise shall
control. Grantee reserves all rights it may have to challenge any modifications
to this Code whether arising in contract or at law. The City reserves all of
its rights and defenses to such challenges whether arising in contract or at
law.
      4.   Nothing in this franchise shall: a) abrogate the right of the City
to perform any public works or public improvements of any description, b) be
construed as a waiver of any codes or ordinances promulgated by the City, or c)
be construed as a waiver or release of the rights of the City in and to the
rights- of-way, or d) be construed as a waiver or release of rights of the
grantee.
      5.   This franchise complies with the Minnesota franchise standards set
forth in Minnesota Statutes section 238.084. The City and the grantee shall
conform to Minnesota laws promulgated subsequent to the date of this franchise.
The City and the grantee shall conform to Federal laws and regulations as they
become effective.
   (C)   Additional Providers:
      1.   The franchise granted herein shall be nonexclusive.
      2.   The City acknowledges that under Minnesota Statutes section 238.08,
subd. 1(b) it may only grant additional franchises to provide cable service
within the City on terms and conditions no more favorable or less burdensome
than those in this franchise pertaining to: a) the area served; b) public,
educational, or governmental access requirements; or c) franchise fees.
Additionally, and beyond the requirements of Minnesota Statutes section 238.08,
the City agrees that grantee's obligations under this franchise with regard to
ROW access and responsibilities, complimentary service to public buildings,
penalties and security, sale or transfer of ownership shall not be more
burdensome or less favorable than those imposed on any such additional provider
(defined below).
      3.   If any other provider of cable services is lawfully authorized by
the City to provide such services using facilities located wholly or partly in
the rights-of-way of the City ("additional provider(s)"), the City shall,
within thirty (30) days of a written request from grantee, modify this
franchise to ensure that the obligations imposed by subsection (C)2 of this
section have been met.
      4.   If the City fails to make modifications consistent with subsection
(C)2 of this section grantee shall have the right to initiate an action in the
State or Federal District Court for breach of contract or other appropriate
claims and seek any and all appropriate relief, including specific performance.
      5.   Nothing in this franchise shall impair the right of the City or
grantee to seek other remedies available under law.
      6.   In the event City initiates the franchising process pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes section 238.081, the City shall notify grantee in writing of
its intent to initiate the franchising process prior to doing so.
      7.   Grantee shall have the right to operate the cable system to the
extent provided in any future amendment to applicable State or Federal law.
   (D)   Term: The initial term of this franchise shall be for the period of
ten (10) years from the date of acceptance by grantee, unless renewed, revoked,
or terminated sooner as herein provided ("initial term"). The initial term may
be extended by mutual agreement of the parties.
   (E)   Previous Franchise: Upon acceptance of this franchise by grantee as
required in subsection
8-8A-11(B) of this chapter, this franchise shall supersede and replace any
previous franchise and regulatory ordinance granting a franchise to grantee to
own, operate and maintain a cable system within the City. The franchise adopted
by ordinance no. 099-427 is hereby repealed.
   (F)   Rules Of Grantee: The grantee shall have the authority to promulgate
such rules, regulations, terms and conditions governing the conduct of its
business as shall be reasonably necessary to enable said grantee to exercise
its rights and perform its obligation under this franchise and to assure
uninterrupted service to each and all of its subscribers; provided that such
rules, regulations, terms and conditions shall not be in conflict with
provisions hereto, this Code or applicable law.
   (G)   Territorial Area Involved: This franchise is granted for the service
area.
      1.   Grantee shall maintain the cable system in a commercially reasonable
manner.
      2.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the grantee shall have the right, but
not the obligation, to extend the cable system into any portion of the service
area, provided, however, that if any additional provider operating in the City
as of the effective date of this franchise ceases the provision of cable
service in the City, then the grantee shall be obligated to extend the system
and offer service to all portions of the service area in which there is a
minimum of thirty five (35) homes per linear stand mile of cable as measured
from grantee's closest trunk line or distribution cable actively delivering
service. The grantee shall be afforded a reasonable period of time to extend
the system and make service available, not to exceed six (6) months from a
request for service. (Ord. 018-739, 6-18-2018)
8-8A-3:   CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS:
   (A)   Permits: Grantee shall not construct any cable system facilities until
grantee has secured the permits from City required by applicable law.
   (B)   Grantee's Facilities And Equipment:
      1.   In those areas of the City where transmission or distribution
facilities of all the utilities providing telephone and electric power service
are underground, the grantee likewise shall construct, operate and maintain its
transmission and distribution facilities therein underground.
      2.   Grantee shall be granted access to any easements granted to a public
utility, Municipal utility or utility district in any areas annexed by City or
new developments.
      3.   In those areas of the City where grantee's cables are located on the
above-ground transmission or distribution facilities of the utility providing
telephone or electric power service, and in the event that the facilities of
both such utilities subsequently are placed underground, then the grantee
likewise shall construct, operate and maintain its transmission and
distribution facilities underground.
      4.   Certain of grantee's equipment, such as pedestals, amplifiers and
power supplies, which normally are placed above ground, may continue to remain
in above-ground closures.
   (C)   Conditions On Right-Of-Way Use:
      1.   Public Works: Nothing in this franchise shall be construed to
prevent City from constructing, maintaining, repairing or relocating sewers;
grading, paving, maintaining, repairing, relocating and/or altering any right-
of-way; constructing, laying down, repairing, maintaining or relocating any
water mains; or constructing, maintaining, relocating, or repairing any
sidewalk or other public work consistent with applicable law.
      2.   Relocation For The City: The grantee shall, upon receipt of
reasonable advance written notice, to be not less than ten (10) business days,
protect, support, temporarily disconnect, relocate, or remove any property of
grantee when lawfully required by the City pursuant to its police powers.
Grantee shall be responsible for any costs associated with these obligations to
the same extent all other users of the City rights-of-way are responsible for
the costs related to the relocation of their facilities.
      3.   Relocation For A Third Party: The grantee shall, on the request of
any person holding a lawful permit issued by the City, protect, support, raise,
lower, temporarily disconnect, relocate in or remove from the right-of-way as
necessary any property of the grantee, provided that the expense of such is
paid by any such person benefiting from the relocation and the grantee is given
reasonable advance written notice to prepare for such changes. The grantee may
require such payment in advance. For purposes of this subsection, "reasonable
advance written notice" shall be no less than ten (10) business days in the
event of a temporary relocation and no less than one hundred twenty (120) days
for a permanent relocation.
      4.   Reimbursement Of Costs: If funds are available to any person using
the rights-of-way for the purpose of defraying the cost of any of the
foregoing, the City shall reimburse the grantee in the same manner in which
other persons affected by the requirement are reimbursed. If the funds are
controlled by another governmental entity, the City shall make application for
such funds on behalf of the grantee.
      5.   Temporary Move Of Wires Or Fixtures: The grantee shall, on request
of any person holding a moving permit issued by City, temporarily move its
wires or fixtures to permit the moving of buildings with the expense of such
temporary removal to be paid by the person requesting the same, and the grantee
shall be given not less than ten (10) days' advance notice to arrange for such
temporary changes.
      6.   Use Of Rights-Of-Way: Nothing in this franchise shall be construed
to prevent the City from adopting and enforcing requirements for the usage of
rights-of-way, or from constructing, maintaining, repairing or relocating
utility facilities, streets or sidewalks, or from grading, paving, maintaining,
repairing, relocating and/or altering any right-of- way.
      7.   Location Of Facilities: All system facilities shall be located so as
not to obstruct or interfere with the use of right-of-way, and so as not to
unnecessarily interfere with the usual and customary trade, traffic, or travel
upon the streets and public places in the franchise area or endanger the life
or property of any person.
   (D)   Tree Trimming: Grantee shall have the authority to trim trees, in
accordance with applicable law.
   (E)   Protection Of Facilities: Nothing contained in this section shall
relieve any person from liability arising out of the failure to exercise
reasonable care to avoid damaging grantee's facilities while performing any
work connected with grading, regrading or changing the line of any rights-of-
way or public place or the construction or reconstruction of any sewer or water
system.
   (F)   Safety Requirements: The grantee shall at all times keep and maintain
the system in good condition, order, and repair so as to avoid endangering the
life or property of any person; employ ordinary and reasonable care and common
industry practices to avoid causing damage, injuries, or nuisances to the
public; and keep and maintain the system in accordance with all Federal, State
and local laws and regulations including the National Electric Safety Code.
   (G)   Drop Burial: Grantee shall bury all underground drops in a reasonable
time period which shall not exceed ten (10) business days, subject to weather
conditions and the completion of required utility locates. In the event the
ground is frozen, grantee shall be permitted to delay burial until the ground
is suitable for burial which in no event shall be later than June 30th.
   (H)   Repair Of Rights-Of-Way And Property: Any and all rights-of- way or
public property disturbed or damaged during the construction, repair,
replacement, relocation, operation, maintenance or reconstruction of the system
shall be promptly and fully restored by grantee at its expense in accordance
with any applicable ordinance governing rights-of-way. (Ord. 018-739, 6-18-
2018)
8-8A-4:   DESIGN PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Cable System Design And Functionality: As of the effective date of
this agreement, the grantee operates a seven hundred fifty (750) MHz hybrid
fiber-coax cable system. The parties acknowledge that the current design of the
cable system does not preclude the use of new technologies in the future.
   (B)   Programming Decisions:
      1.   Grantee shall carry broad categories of video programming, including
local news, sports, and entertainment. Any change in the broad categories of
video programming or other information services shall require City approval
consistent with 47 USC section 544(b), which approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
      2.   Grantee shall comply with Federal law regarding notice to the City
and subscribers prior to any channel additions, deletions, or realignments.
   (C)   Technical Standards: The technical standards used in the operation of
the cable system shall comply, at minimum, with the technical standards
promulgated by the FCC relating to cable systems pursuant to title 47, section
76, subpart K of the Code of Federal Regulations, as may be amended or modified
from time to time, which regulations are expressly incorporated herein by
reference.
   (D)   Special Testing: City may require special testing of a location or
locations within the system if there is a particular matter of controversy or
unresolved complaints pertaining to such location(s). Demand for such special
tests may be made on the basis of complaints received or other evidence
indicating an unresolved controversy or noncompliance. Such tests shall be
limited to the particular matter in controversy or unresolved complaints. The
City shall arrange its request for such special testing so as to minimize
hardship or inconvenience to grantee or to the subscribers caused by such
testing. Before ordering such tests, grantee shall be afforded thirty (30) days
to correct problems or complaints upon which tests were ordered. The City shall
meet with grantee prior to requiring special tests to discuss the need for such
and, if possible, visually inspect those locations which are the focus of
concern. If, after such meetings and inspections, City wishes to commence
special tests and the thirty (30) days have elapsed without correction of the
matter in controversy or unresolved complaints, the tests shall be conducted by
a qualified engineer mutually selected by City and grantee based on a mutually
agreed upon scope of work. The parties shall bear their respective costs for
the testing.
   (E)   FCC Reports: The results of tests required to be filed by grantee with
the FCC shall also be copied to City within ten (10) days of the conduct of the
date of the test.
   (F)   Emergency Alert Capability: At all times during the term of this
franchise, grantee shall provide and maintain an emergency alert system (EAS)
consistent with applicable Federal law and regulations including 47 CFR, part
11, and any Minnesota State Emergency Alert System requirements. The City may
identify authorized emergency officials for activating the EAS consistent with
the Minnesota State Emergency Statewide Plan ("EAS Plan").
   (G)   Parental Control Lock: To the extent required by applicable law,
grantee shall provide, for sale or lease, to subscribers, upon request, a
parental control locking device or digital code that permits inhibiting the
video and audio portions of any channels offered by grantee. (Ord. 018-739, 6-
18-2018)
8-8A-5:   SERVICE PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Rate Regulation: The City reserves the right to regulate rates for
basic cable service and any other services offered over the cable system, to
the extent authorized by applicable law.
   (B)   Leased Channel Service: Grantee shall offer leased channel service on
reasonable terms and conditions and in accordance with applicable law.
   (C)   Service To Public Buildings:
      1.   For a period of one year after the effective date, grantee shall
provide basic cable service, or its lowest cost level of cable service, to a
single drop, with one converter (if necessary) to one outlet, free of charge,
at each public institution, elementary and secondary school building and public
library building that currently receives complimentary cable service as of the
effective date of this franchise on a voluntary basis, as listed in subsection
8-8A-11(C), exhibit A-1 of this chapter. Thereafter, grantee shall provide the
aforementioned service to fifty percent (50%) of the agreed upon locations in
subsection
8-8A-11(D), exhibit A-2 of this chapter; provided, however, grantee shall not
be required to extend service to any building or site not listed in subsection
8-8A-11(C), exhibit A-1 of this chapter even if that results in grantee serving
less than fifty percent (50%) of the agreed upon locations in subsection
8-8A-11(D), exhibit A-2 of this chapter.
      2.   Any public institution, elementary and secondary school building or
public library building that receives cable service pursuant to this subsection
(C) shall be responsible for any costs incurred by grantee to repair or replace
any drops, outlets or equipment required to receive or distribute the cable
service.
   (D)   Consumer Protection And Service Standards: Grantee shall comply with
the FCC customer service rules at 47 CFR section 76.309, as may be amended, and
the following:
      1.   Complaint Records: Subject to grantee's need to maintain the privacy
of certain information, the grantee shall at all times maintain a record of all
written complaints received regarding interruptions or degradation of cable
service and the resolution of such complaints, which shall be maintained for
one year. Upon request, grantee shall make available for the City's review a
written summary of such complaints and their resolution in accordance with
subsections 8-8A-7(C) and (D) of this chapter. Upon request, grantee will also
make reports available with respect to the objectively measurable service
standards established at 47 CFR section 76.309.
      2.   Additional Customer Service Requirements: The City expressly
reserves authority to adopt additional or modified customer service
requirements to the extent provided in applicable FCC regulations.
   (E)   Reserved.
   (F)   Sales Procedures: Grantee shall have the right to market door-to-door
during reasonable hours consistent with this franchise and existing local
ordinances and regulation.
   (G)   Subscriber Contracts: Grantee shall, upon written request, provide the
City with any standard form residential subscriber contract utilized by grantee
for cable service. If no such written contract exists, grantee shall file with
the City a document completely and concisely stating the length and terms of
the subscriber contract offered to customers. The length and terms of any
standard form subscriber contract(s) shall be available for public inspection
during normal business hours. Upon request, a list of grantee's current
subscriber rates and charges for cable service shall be maintained on file with
City, unless otherwise available on its consumer website, and shall be
available for public inspection. For purposes of this section, the availability
of this information on grantee's website shall constitute compliance.
   (H)   Refund Policy: If a subscriber's cable service is interrupted or
discontinued, without cause, for twenty four (24) or more consecutive hours,
grantee shall, upon request by the subscriber, credit such subscriber pro rata
for such interruption. For this purpose, every month will be assumed to have
thirty (30) days.
   (I)   Late Fees: Grantee shall comply with all applicable laws with respect
to any assessment, charge, cost, fee or sum, however characterized, that
grantee imposes upon a subscriber for late payment of a bill.
   (J)   Disputes: All subscribers and members of the general public may direct
complaints, regarding grantee's service or performance to the Chief
Administrative Officer of the City or the Chief Administrative Officer's
designee, which may be a board of the City or the commission. Grantee shall
endeavor to resolve subscriber complaints within thirty (30) days.
   (K)   Customer Bills: Customer bills shall be designed in such a way as to
present the information contained therein clearly and comprehensibly to
customers, and in a way that: 1) is not misleading and 2) does not omit
material information. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in subsection
(D)2 of this section, grantee may, in its sole discretion, consolidate costs on
customer bills as may otherwise be permitted by section 622(c) of the Cable Act
(47 USC section 542(c)).
   (L)   Local Office And Repair Phone Line: Grantee shall maintain a
conveniently located customer service office which shall be staffed and open
during normal business hours. Grantee shall also maintain a local or toll-free
telephone subscriber complaint line, available to its subscribers twenty four
(24) hours per day, seven (7) days a week. In the event grantee elects to close
its local office, grantee shall provide at least sixty (60) days prior written
notice to the City.
   (M)   Notification Of Complaint Procedure: Grantee shall have printed
clearly and prominently on each subscriber bill and in the customer service
agreement provided for in subsection (G) of this section, the twenty four (24)
hour grantee phone number for subscriber complaints. Additionally, grantee
shall provide information to customers concerning the procedures to follow when
they are unsatisfied with measures taken by grantee to remedy their complaint.
This information will include the phone number of the City office or person
designated to handle complaints. Additionally, grantee shall state that
complaints should be made to grantee prior to contacting the City.
   (N)   Subscriber Privacy: Only for so long as and to the extent required by
Minnesota Statutes section 238.084 subd. 1(s), no signals including signals of
a Class IV channel may be transmitted from a subscriber terminal for purposes
of monitoring individual viewing patterns or practices without the express
written permission of the subscriber.
   (O)   Grantee Identification: Grantee shall provide all customer service
technicians and all other grantee employees entering private property with
appropriate picture identification so that grantee employees may be easily
identified by the property owners and subscribers. (Ord. 018-739, 6-18-2018)
8-8A-6:   PUBLIC ACCESS PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Reserved.
   (B)   Public, Educational And Government Access Facilities: City or its
designee is hereby designated to operate, administer, promote, and manage the
PEG programming (hereinafter "PEG access") to the cable system established
pursuant to this section. Grantee shall have no responsibility whatsoever for
PEG access except as expressly stated in this section and subsection
8-8A-11(E), exhibit B of this chapter.
   (C)   Grantee Support For PEG Usage: In accordance with the provisions of
the Cable Act and Minnesota Statutes section 238.084, grantee shall provide and
make available for PEG access usage within the service area the following:
      1.   Provision and use of the funds and channels designated in subsection
8-8A-11(E), exhibit B of this chapter for local educational and governmental
programming and access use in accordance with the requirements of subsection
8-8A-11(E), exhibit B of this chapter.
      2.   Maintenance of the PEG access facilities and channels, and support
of educational and governmental programming to the extent specified in
subsection
8-8A-11(E), exhibit B and subsection
8-8A-11(G), exhibit D of this chapter. Subsection
8-8A-11(G), exhibit D of this chapter shall be prepared annually and submitted
to grantee within ninety (90) days after the end of each calendar year.
      3.   PEG access facilities shall be operated by the City and PEG channels
shall be programmed by the City or its lawful designee. (Ord. 018-739, 6-18-
2018)
8-8A-7:   OPERATION AND ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Franchise Fee:
      1.   The City agrees to impose identical franchise fee obligations
(including but not limited to the franchise fee percentage and the gross
revenue definition on which the franchise fee is paid) on all additional
providers of service in the City. To the extent City fails to do so, grantee
shall have the right to pursue franchise modification pursuant to subsection
8-8A-2(C) of this chapter. If City and grantee fail to agree on modifications
pursuant to the process established in subsection
8-8A-2(C)3 of this chapter, grantee shall have the right to eliminate or reduce
any franchise fee obligations to an amount equivalent to that imposed on a
competing provider to make grantee's franchise fee financial obligations
equivalent to that imposed on an additional provider.
      2.   During the term of the franchise, grantee shall pay quarterly to the
City a franchise fee of five percent (5%) of gross revenues.
      3.   Each franchise fee payment shall be paid quarterly not later than
forty five (45) days following the end of a given quarter and shall be
accompanied by a franchise fee payment worksheet substantially in the form in
subsection
8-8A-11(F), exhibit C of this chapter. Any franchise fees owing pursuant to
this franchise which remain unpaid more than forty five (45) days after the
dates specified herein shall be past due and subject to interest at an annual
rate of the prime interest rate during the period of underpayment plus one
percent (1%).
      4.   Except as otherwise provided by law, no acceptance of any payment by
the City shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of
any claim the City may have for further or additional sums payable as a
franchise fee under this franchise or for the performance of any other
obligation of the grantee.
      5.   No more than once every three (3) years and upon thirty (30) days'
prior written notice, City shall have the right to conduct an independent
review/audit of grantee's records solely for the purpose of assessing grantee's
compliance with the franchise fee obligation herein. In the event the audit
reveals an underpayment of five percent (5%) or more of the franchise fee
amounts due during the period audited, the grantee shall reimburse the City's
audit fees and expenses in full.
   (B)   Reports:
      1.   Grantee shall provide City with an annual statement, within ninety
(90) days of the close of each calendar year end, reflecting the total amounts
of gross revenues and all payments, and computations of the franchise fee for
the previous calendar year.
      2.   Upon request, grantee shall provide City with a summary of service
calls, identifying the number, general nature and disposition of such calls to
be submitted to the City within thirty (30) days following its request in a
form reasonably acceptable to the City.
      3.   All reports and records required under this franchise shall be
furnished at the sole expense of grantee, except as otherwise provided in this
franchise.
   (C)   Records Required And City's Right To Inspect:
      1.   Grantee shall at all times maintain a full and complete set of
plans, records and "as-built" drawings and/or maps showing the location of the
cable system installed or in use in the City, exclusive of subscriber service
drops and equipment provided in subscribers' homes.
      2.   Subject to the privacy provisions of the Cable Act and
confidentiality designation of certain records under the Minnesota Data
Practices Act, Minnesota Statutes chapter 13 or other applicable law,
throughout the term of this franchise, the grantee agrees that the City, upon
reasonable prior written notice of thirty (30) days to the grantee, and no more
than once per calendar year, may review such of the grantee's books and records
regarding the operation of the cable system and the provision of cable service
in the franchise area which are reasonably necessary to monitor and enforce
grantee's compliance with the provisions of this franchise ("records"). Such
notice shall specifically reference the section(s) of the franchise that are
under review so that the grantee may organize the necessary records for easy
access by the City. Grantee shall make available for review such records as
soon as possible and in no event more than thirty (30) days unless grantee
explains that it is not feasible to meet this timeline and provides a written
explanation for the delay and an estimated reasonable date for when such
information will be provided. All such records pertaining to financial matters
that may be the subject of an inspection by the City shall be retained by the
grantee for a period of six (6) years, pursuant to Minnesota Statutes section
541.05. The grantee shall not deny the City access to records on the basis that
they are under the control of any parent corporation, affiliated entity or a
third party. Grantee shall provide all records requested by the City or City's
agent in the following manner: a) at a conference room in City Hall; or b) at
grantee's office located in or near the City; or c) via mail or electronic
communication acceptable to the City and grantee. All records shall be subject
to the provisions of this franchise and applicable law regarding
confidentiality.
   (D)   Confidential Information:
      1.   Subject to applicable law, grantee may choose to provide any
confidential records that it is obligated to make available to the City
pursuant to this franchise, by allowing the City, or its designated
representative(s), to view the records at a mutually agreeable location and
without City obtaining its own copies of such records. Grantee may also choose
to provide any confidential or proprietary records pursuant to a mutually
acceptable non- disclosure agreement with a City designated agent. The intent
of the parties is to work cooperatively to ensure that records reasonably
necessary for City's monitoring and enforcement of franchise obligations are
available to City while protecting grantee's confidential information all in
accordance with applicable law. To the extent that grantee does provide records
directly to the City, City agrees not to disclose records except as required by
applicable law. Grantee shall be responsible for clearly and conspicuously
identifying the records as confidential or proprietary. Grantee acknowledges
that the Minnesota Data Practices Act, Minnesota Statutes chapter 13 ("MDPA")
places limitations on the ability of the City to refuse public disclosure of
certain information unless such information meets the statutory requirements
set forth in the MDPA.
      2.   If the City believes it must release any such confidential or
proprietary records in the course of enforcing this franchise, or for any other
reason including compliance with the MDPA, it shall advise grantee in advance
so that grantee may take appropriate steps to protect its interests. The City
agrees that, to the extent permitted by the MDPA and applicable law, it shall
deny access to any of grantee's records marked confidential, as set forth
above, to any person and that it shall furnish only that portion of the
grantee's records required under the MDPA and applicable law. (Ord. 018-739, 6-
18-2018)
8-8A-8:   GENERAL FINANCIAL AND INSURANCE PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Letter Of Credit:
      1.   At the time of acceptance of this franchise, grantee shall deliver
to the City an irrevocable and unconditional letter of credit in the amount of
ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00).
      2.   In addition to recovery of any monies owed by grantee to City or
damages to City as a result of any acts or omissions by grantee pursuant to the
franchise, City in compliance with this section may charge to and collect from
the letter of credit the following liquidated damages:
            (a)    For failure to provide data, documents, reports or
information required herein, the penalty shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per
day for each day, or part thereof, such failure occurs or continues.
            (b)    For failure to comply with construction, operation, customer
service, or maintenance standards, the penalty shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) per day for each day, or part thereof, such failure occurs or
continues.
            (c)    For failure to meet the PEG access requirements set forth in
section 8-8A-6 of this chapter, the penalty shall be one hundred dollars
($100.00) per day for each day, or part thereof, such failure occurs or
continues.
            (d)    For failure to comply with any of the provisions of this
franchise, the penalty shall be fifty dollars ($50.00) per day for each day, or
part thereof, such violation continues.
Each violation of any provision of this franchise shall be considered a
separate violation for which a separate penalty can be imposed.
   (B)   Procedure For Franchise Enforcement: Whenever the City finds that
grantee has allegedly violated one or more terms, conditions or provisions of
this franchise, a written notice shall be given to grantee. The written notice
shall describe in reasonable detail the alleged violation so as to afford
grantee an opportunity to remedy the violation. Grantee shall have thirty (30)
days subsequent to receipt of the notice in which to correct the violation.
Grantee may, within thirty (30) days of receipt of notice, notify the City that
there is a dispute as to whether a violation or failure has, in fact, occurred.
Such notice by grantee shall specify with particularity the matters disputed by
grantee and shall stay the running of the above-described time and the accrual
of penalties.
      1.   City shall hear grantee's dispute at a mutually agreed upon time.
Grantee shall have the right to speak and introduce evidence. The City shall
determine if grantee has committed a violation and shall make written findings
of fact relative to its determination. If a violation is found, grantee may
petition for reconsideration.
      2.   If after hearing the dispute, the claim is upheld by the City, then
grantee shall have thirty (30) days within which to remedy the violation before
the City may seek to draw on the letter of credit.
      3.   Grantee may appeal any adverse decision by the City which shall stay
the City's right to draw on the letter of credit until such time as the action
has been finally adjudicated by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Time For Correction Of Violation: The time for grantee to correct any
alleged violation may be extended by the City if the necessary action to
correct the alleged violation is of such a nature or character as to require
more than thirty (30) days within which to perform provided grantee commences
corrective action within fifteen (15) days and thereafter uses reasonable
diligence, as determined by the City, to correct the violation.
   (D)   Letter Of Credit Cap: If City draws upon the letter of credit or any
subsequent letter of credit delivered pursuant hereto, in whole or in part,
grantee shall replace or replenish to its full amount up to the maximum
provided by this subsection (D) the same within ten (10) days and shall deliver
to City a like replacement letter of credit or certification of replenishment
for the full amount stated in subsection (A)1 of this section as a substitution
of the previous letter of credit. This shall be a continuing obligation for any
draws upon the letter of credit up to an aggregate total of twenty five
thousand dollars ($25,000.00) over the franchise term.
   (E)   Liability Insurance:
      1.   Grantee shall with its acceptance of this franchise, and at its sole
expense, take out and maintain during the term of this franchise commercial
general liability insurance with a company authorized to do business in the
State of Minnesota that shall protect the grantee, the City and their
officials, officers, directors, employees and agents from claims which may
arise from operations under this franchise, whether such operations be by the
grantee, its officials, officers, directors, employees and agents or any
subcontractors of grantee. This liability insurance shall include, but shall
not be limited to, protection against claims arising from bodily and personal
injury and damage to property, resulting from grantee's vehicles, products and
operations. The amount of insurance for single limit coverage applying to
bodily and personal injury and property damage shall not be less than three
million dollars ($3,000,000.00) which may be satisfied by an umbrella liability
policy. The following shall be included in the liability policy:
            (a)    The policy shall provide coverage on an "occurrence" basis.
            (b)    The policy shall cover personal injury as well as bodily
injury.
            (c)    The policy shall cover blanket contractual liability subject
to the standard universal exclusions of contractual liability included in the
carrier's standard endorsement as to bodily injuries, personal injuries and
property damage.
            (d)    Property damage liability shall be afforded.
            (e)    The City shall be named as an additional insured on the
policy.
            (f)    An endorsement shall be provided which states that the
coverage is primary insurance and that no other insurance maintained by the
City will be called upon to contribute to a loss under this coverage.
            (g)    Standard form of cross-liability shall be afforded.
      2.   Cancellation notice will be provided for any reason other than non-
payment of premium and material alteration and requires the City provide
grantee a valid contact name and e-mail address (with any changes to the
contact name or e-mail address being the responsibility of the City).
      3.   Grantee shall submit to City documentation of the required
insurance, including a certificate of insurance evidencing these requirements.
   (F)   Indemnification:
      1.   Grantee shall indemnify, defend and hold City, its officers, boards,
commissions, agents and employees (collectively the "indemnified parties")
harmless from and against any and all lawsuits, claims, causes of action,
actions, liabilities, demands, damages, judgments, settlements, disability,
losses, expenses (including attorney's fees and disbursements of counsel) and
costs of any nature that any of the indemnified parties may at any time suffer,
sustain or incur arising out of, based upon or in any way connected with the
grant of this franchise, the operation of grantee's system, the breach by
grantee of its obligations under this franchise and/or the activities of
grantee, its subcontractor, employees and agents hereunder. Grantee shall be
solely responsible for and shall indemnify, defend and hold the indemnified
parties harmless from and against any and all matters relative to payment of
grantee's employees, including compliance with Social Security and
withholdings.
      2.   The indemnification obligations of grantee set forth in this
franchise are not limited in any way by the amount or type of damages or
compensation payable by or for grantee under Workers' Compensation, Disability
or other employee benefit Acts, acceptance of insurance certificates required
under this franchise, or the terms, applicability or limitations of any
insurance held by grantee.
      3.   City does not, and shall not, waive any rights against grantee which
it may have by reason of the indemnification provided for in this franchise,
because of the acceptance by City, or the deposit with City by grantee, of any
of the insurance policies described in this franchise.
      4.   The indemnification of City by grantee provided for in this
franchise shall apply to all damages and claims for damages of any kind
suffered by reason of any of the grantee's operations referred to in this
franchise, regardless of whether or not such insurance policies shall have been
determined to be applicable to any such damages or claims for damages.
      5.   Grantee shall not be required to indemnify City for negligence or
misconduct on the part of City or its officials, boards, commissions, agents,
or employees. City shall hold grantee harmless, subject to the limitations in
Minnesota Statutes chapter 466, for any damage resulting from the negligence or
misconduct of the City or its officials, boards, commissions, agents, or
employees in utilizing any PEG channels, equipment, or facilities and for any
such negligence or misconduct by City in connection with work performed by City
and permitted by this franchise, on or adjacent to the cable system.
   (G)   Process: In order for City to assert its rights to be indemnified,
defended, and held harmless, City must, with respect to each claim:
      1.   Promptly notify grantee within ten (10) business days in writing of
any claim or legal proceeding which gives rise to such right;
      2.   Afford grantee the opportunity to participate in and fully control
any compromise, settlement or other resolution or disposition of any claim or
proceeding; and
      3.   Fully cooperate with reasonable requests of grantee, at grantee's
expense, in its participation in, and control, compromise, settlement or
resolution or other disposition of such claim or proceeding subject to
subsection (G)2 of this section.
   (H)   Grantee's Insurance: Grantee shall not commence any cable system
reconstruction work or permit any subcontractor to commence work until all
insurance required under this franchise has been obtained. Said insurance shall
be maintained in full force and effect until the expiration of this franchise.
   (I)   Workers' Compensation Insurance: Grantee shall obtain and maintain
workers' compensation insurance for all of grantee's employees, and in case any
work is sublet, grantee shall require any subcontractor similarly to provide
workers' compensation insurance for all of their employees, all in compliance
with State laws. Grantee shall provide the City with a certificate of insurance
indicating workers' compensation coverage upon its acceptance of this
franchise. (Ord. 018-739, 6-18-2018)
8-8A-9:   SALE, ABANDONMENT, TRANSFER AND REVOCATION:
   (A)   Abandonment Of Service: Grantee may not abandon the system or any
portion thereof without having first given three (3) months' written notice to
City. Grantee may not abandon the system or any portion thereof without
compensating City for damages resulting from the abandonment.
   (B)   Removal After Termination Or Forfeiture:
      1.   In the event of termination or forfeiture of the franchise, City
shall have the right to require grantee to remove all or any portion of the
system from all rights-of-way and public property within City associated solely
with the provision of cable service; provided, however, that if grantee is
providing services other than cable services or pursuant to Minnesota Statutes,
section 237.01 et seq., City shall not require the removal of the system.
Nothing in this section shall be deemed either to grant or to preclude the
provision of services other than cable services.
      2.   If grantee has failed to commence removal of system, or such part
thereof as was designated by City, within one hundred twenty (120) days after
written notice of City's demand for removal is given, or if grantee has failed
to complete such removal within twelve (12) months after written notice of
City's demand for removal is given, City shall have the right to declare all
right, title, and interest to the system to be in City with all rights of
ownership including, but not limited to, the right to operate the system or
transfer the system to another for operation by it pursuant to the provisions
of 47 USC section 547 (1989).
   (C)   Sale Or Transfer Of Franchise:
      1.   No sale, transfer, or assignment of this franchise, or "fundamental
corporate change", as defined in Minnesota Statutes, section 238.083, in
grantee, shall take place until a written request is filed with City for its
approval, provided, however, that said approval shall not be required where
grantee grants a security interest in its franchise and assets to secure an
indebtedness.
      2.   City shall have thirty (30) days from the time of the request to
reply in writing and indicate its determination that a public hearing is
necessary due to potential adverse effect on grantee's subscribers resulting
from the sale or transfer. Such determination shall be expressed in writing.
      3.   If a public hearing is deemed necessary pursuant to subsection (C)2
of this section, such hearing shall be commenced within thirty (30) days of
such determination and notice of any such hearing shall be given in accordance
with local law or fourteen (14) days prior to the hearing by publishing notice
thereof once in a newspaper of general circulation in City. The notice shall
contain the date, time and place of the hearing and shall briefly state the
substance of the action to be considered by City.
      4.   Thereafter, City shall approve or deny in writing the sale or
transfer request. City shall set forth in writing its reason(s) for denying
approval. City shall not unreasonably withhold its approval.
      5.   The parties to the sale or transfer of the franchise only, without
the inclusion of the system in which substantial construction has commenced,
shall establish that the sale or transfer of only the franchise will be in the
public interest.
      6.   Any sale or transfer of stock in grantee so as to create a new
controlling interest in the system shall be subject to the requirements of this
subsection (C). The term "controlling interest" as used herein is not limited
to majority stock ownership, but includes actual working control in whatever
manner exercised.
      7.   In no event shall a transfer or assignment of ownership or control
be approved without the transferee becoming a signatory to this franchise and
assuming all rights and obligations thereunder, and assuming all other rights
and obligations of the transferor to the City.
      8.   In the event of any proposed sale or assignment pursuant to
subsection (C)1 of this section City shall have the right of first refusal of
any bona fide offer to purchase the system. Bona fide offer, as used in this
section, means an offer received by the grantee which it intends to accept
subject to City's rights under this section. This written offer must be
conveyed to City along with the grantee's written acceptance of the offer
contingent upon the rights of City provided for in this section. City shall be
deemed to have waived its rights under this section in the following
circumstances:
         (a)    If it does not indicate to grantee in writing, within sixty
(60) days of notice of a proposed sale or assignment, its intention to exercise
its right of purchase; or
         (b)    It approves the assignment or sale of the franchise as provided
within this section.
   (D)   Reservation Of Rights: City and grantee reserve all rights that they
may possess under applicable laws unless expressly waived herein. (Ord. 018-
739, 6-18-2018)
8-8A-10:   MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Franchise Renewal: Any renewal of this franchise shall be in
accordance with applicable laws. The term of any renewed franchise shall be
limited to a period not to exceed fifteen (15) years.
   (B)   Work Of Contractors And Subcontractors: All provisions of this
franchise shall apply to any subcontractor or others performing any work or
services on grantee's behalf pursuant to the provisions of this franchise.
Grantee shall be responsible for ensuring that the work of contractors and
subcontractors is performed consistent with the franchise and applicable laws
and shall indemnify the City pursuant to subsection
8-8A-8(F) of this chapter.
   (C)   Governing Law: This franchise shall be deemed to be executed in the
State of Minnesota, and shall be governed in all respects, including validity,
interpretation and effect, and construed in accordance with, the Cable Act and
the laws of the State of Minnesota, as applicable to contracts entered into and
performed entirely within the State.
   (D)   Non-Enforcement By City: Grantee shall not be relieved of its
obligation to comply with any of the provisions of this franchise by reason of
any failure of the City to enforce prompt compliance.
   (E)   Captions: The paragraph captions and headings in this franchise are
for convenience and reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the
meaning of interpretation of this franchise.
   (F)   Calculation Of Time: Where the performance or doing of any act, duty,
matter, payment or thing is required hereunder and the period of time or
duration for the performance is prescribed and fixed herein, the time shall be
computed so as to exclude the first and include the last day of the prescribed
or fixed period or duration of time. When the last day of the period falls on
Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday, that day shall be omitted from the
computation and the next business day shall be the last day of the period.
   (G)   Survival Of Terms: Upon the termination or forfeiture of the
franchise, grantee shall no longer have the right to occupy the rights-of-way
for the purpose of providing cable service. However, grantee's obligations to
the City shall survive according to their terms.
   (H)   Severability: If any provision of this franchise is held by any
governmental authority of competent jurisdiction, to be invalid as conflicting
with any applicable laws now or hereafter in effect, or is held by such
governmental authority to be modified in any way in order to conform to the
requirements of any such applicable laws, such provision shall be considered a
separate, distinct, and independent part of this franchise, and such holding
shall not affect the validity and enforceability of all other provisions
hereof. In the event that such applicable laws are subsequently repealed,
rescinded, amended or otherwise changed, so that the provision hereof which had
been held invalid or modified is no longer in conflict with such laws, said
provision shall thereupon return to full force and effect and shall thereafter
be binding on City and grantee, provided that City shall give grantee thirty
(30) days' written notice of such change before requiring compliance with said
provision or such longer period of time as may be reasonably required for
grantee to comply with such provision.
   (I)   Force Majeure: In the event grantee's performance of any of the terms,
conditions, obligations or requirements of this franchise is prevented or
impaired due to any cause beyond its reasonable control, such inability to
perform shall be deemed to be excused for the period of such inability and no
penalties or sanctions shall be imposed as a result thereof. Such causes beyond
grantee's reasonable control shall include, but shall not be limited to, acts
of God, civil emergencies and labor unrest or strikes, untimely delivery of
equipment, inability of grantee to obtain access to an individual's property
and inability of grantee to secure all necessary permits to utilize utility
poles and conduit so long as grantee utilizes due diligence to timely obtain
said permits. (Ord. 018-739, 6-18-2018)
8-8A-11:   PUBLICATION EFFECTIVE DATE; ACCEPTANCE AND EXHIBITS:
   (A)   Publication; Effective Date: This franchise shall be published in
accordance with applicable law. The effective date of this franchise shall be
the date specified in subsection
8-8A-1(B), "Definitions", of this chapter.
   (B)   Acceptance: Grantee shall accept this franchise within thirty (30)
days of its enactment by the City Council, unless the time for acceptance is
extended by City. Such acceptance by the grantee shall be deemed the grant of
this franchise for all purposes. In the event acceptance does not take place,
this franchise and any and all rights previously granted to grantee shall be
null and void.
      1.   Upon acceptance of this franchise, grantee shall be bound by all the
terms and conditions contained herein.
      2.   Grantee shall accept this franchise in the following manner:
         (a)    This franchise will be properly executed and acknowledged by
grantee and delivered to City.
         (b)    With its acceptance, grantee shall also deliver any performance
bond and insurance certificates required herein that have not previously been
delivered.
   (C)   Exhibit A-1; Charter List:
      SERVICE TO PUBLIC BUILDINGS
Farmington Fire Station 1     21625 Denmark Ave
Farmington Fire Station 2     19695 Municipal Drive
Farmington Police Department  19500 Municipal Drive
Farmington liquor store 1     109 Elm Street Suite A
Farmington liquor store 2     18350 Pilot Knob Road
Farmington maintenance        19650 Municipal Drive
Farmington City Hall          430 3rd Street
Farmington outdoor pool       626 Heritage Way
Rambling River Center         325 Oak Street
Boeckman Middle School        800 Denmark Ave
Farmington High School        20655 Flagstaff Ave
Dodge Middle School           4200 208th Street W
Akin Road Elementary School   5231 195th Street W
Meadow View Elementary School 6100 195th Street W
Farmington Elementary School  500 Maple Street
River View Elementary School  4100 208th Street W
Gateway Academy               510 Walnut Street
Extended campus               211 3rd Street
 
   (D)   Exhibit A-2; Commission Universal List:
      COMMISSION UNIVERSAL LIST
Name Address City
Name                                  Address                      City
Apple Valley City Hall (all gov't     7100 147th St W              Apple Valley
headend)
Apple Valley High School (ISD 196     14450 Hayes Rd               Apple Valley
headend)
Farmington City Hall                  430 Third Street             Farmington
Boeckman Middle School (ISD 192       800 Denmark Ave              Farmington
headend)
Rosemount City Hall                   2875 145th St W              Rosemount
Apple Valley Aquatic Center           14421 Johnny Cake Ridge Road Apple Valley
Apple Valley City Hall                7100 147th St W              Apple Valley
Apple Valley Community Center         14603 Hayes Rd               Apple Valley
Apple Valley Fire Station 1           15000 Hayes Rd               Apple Valley
Apple Valley Fire Station 2           13995 Galaxie Ave            Apple Valley
Apple Valley Fire Station 3           14195 Essex Ln               Apple Valley
Apple Valley Ice Arena                14595 Hayes Road             Apple Valley
Apple Valley liquor 1 1               7525 148th St W              Apple Valley
Apple Valley liquor 21                14261 Essex Ave              Apple Valley
Apple Valley liquor 3                 5470 157th St W              Apple Valley
Apple Valley maintenance              6442 140th St W              Apple Valley
Apple Valley Police Department        7100 147th St W              Apple Valley
Apple Valley Redwood Community Center 311 County Rd 42             Apple Valley
Apple Valley Senior Center            14601 Hayes Rd               Apple Valley
Apple Valley Teen Center              14255 Johnny Cake Ridge Rd   Apple Valley
Apple Valley Valleywood Golf Course   4851 McAndrews Rd            Apple Valley
Apple Valley High School Sports Ice   14452 Hayes Rd               Apple Valley
Arena
Cedar Park Elementary School          7500 Whitney Dr              Apple Valley
Cedar Valley Learning Center          14420 Glenda Drive           Apple Valley
Dakota Ridge                          4629 144th St W              Apple Valley
Diamond Path Elementary School        14455 Diamond Path           Apple Valley
Eastview High School                  6200 140th St                Apple Valley
Falcon Ridge Middle School            12900 Johnny Cake Ridge Rd   Apple Valley
Greenleaf Elementary                  13333 Galaxie Ave            Apple Valley
Highland Elementary School            14001 Pilot Knob Rd          Apple Valley
ISD 196 District Service Center       14445 Diamond Path W         Apple Valley
School of Environmental Studies       12155 Johnny Cake Ridge Rd   Apple Valley
Scott Highland Middle School          14011 Pilot Knob Rd          Apple Valley
Southview Elementary                  1025 Whitney Drive           Apple Valley
Transition Plus/Pathway/ ALC          5840 149th St W              Apple Valley
Valley Middle School                  900 Gardenview Dr            Apple Valley
Westview Elementary School            225 Gardenview Dr            Apple Valley
FAA Center                            512 Division St              Farmington
Farmington Central Maintenance        19650 Municipal Drive        Farmington
Facility
Farmington City Hall                  430 Third Street             Farmington
Farmington Fire Station 1             21625 Denmark Ave            Farmington
Farmington Fire Station 2             19695 Municipal Dr           Farmington
Farmington Library                    508 Third St                 Farmington
Farmington liquors 1                  109 Elm St                   Farmington
Farmington liquors 21                 18350 Pilot Knob Road        Farmington
Farmington Police Dept                19500 Municipal Dr           Farmington
Farmington pool                       626 Heritage Way             Farmington
Farmington Rambling River Center      325 Oak St                   Farmington
Farmington Schmitz-Maki Ice Arena     114 Spruce St                Farmington
Akin Road Elementary School           5231 195th St W              Farmington
Dodge Middle School                   4200 208th St W              Farmington
Extended campus                       211 3rd St                   Farmington
Farmington Elementary School          500 Maple St                 Farmington
Farmington High School1               20655 Flagstaff Ave          Farmington
Gateway Academy                       510 Walnut St                Farmington
Idea Program                          304 Spruce St                Farmington
Meadow View Elementary School         6100 195th St W              Farmington
River View Elementary School          4100 208th St W              Farmington
Rosemount Community Center/Ice Arena  13885 South Robert Trl       Rosemount
Rosemount City Hall                   2875 145th St W              Rosemount
Rosemount Family Resource Center      14521 Cimarron Ave           Rosemount
Rosemount Fire Station 1              14700 Shannon Parkway        Rosemount
Rosemount Fire Station 2              2047 Connemara Trail         Rosemount
Rosemount Public Works Garage         14455 Brazil Ave             Rosemount
Rosemount Public Works Office         14425 Brazil Ave             Rosemount
Rosemount Steeple Center              14375 South Robert Trail     Rosemount
Alliance Education Center1            14300 Biscayne Ave           Rosemount
Dakota County Technical College1      1300 145th St                Rosemount
First Baptist School1                 14400 Diamond Path           Rosemount
ISD 196 District Office (DO)          3455 153rd St                Rosemount
Rosemount Elementary School           3155 143rd St                Rosemount
Rosemount High School                 3335 142nd St                Rosemount
Rosemount Middle School               3135 143rd St W              Rosemount
Shannon Park Elementary School        13501 Shannon Parkway        Rosemount
                                     13900 Biscayne Ave           Rosemount
 
Note:
      1.    If landlord permits and/or if economically feasible to serve.
   (E)   Exhibit B; PEG Access Provisions:
      1.   PEG Channels And Regional Channel:
            (a)    City or its designee is hereby designated to operate,
administer, promote, and manage PEG access provided over the cable system. All
subscribers who receive all or any part of the total services offered on the
system shall receive such channels at no additional service charge.
            (b)    Except as provided in subsection (E)1(c) of this section,
grantee shall make available channels for PEG access use (government,
educational and public) as indicated in subsection (E)2 of this section. City's
use of the PEG channels shall be for non-commercial PEG purposes only and shall
be programmed in City's sole discretion. Grantee shall have no responsibility
for the content, operations or use of the PEG channels other than as specified
herein. From and after the effective date, and except as this franchise
expressly provides otherwise, the City shall be responsible for all production
and distribution costs associated with the provision of any PEG channel,
regardless of format, including but not limited to the cost of any equipment or
facilities necessary to produce, transport, or transmit the PEG channels from
their signal origination point(s) to the designated location(s) indicated in
subsection (E)3(c) of this section for insertion on grantee's system. The City
may rename, reprogram, or otherwise change the use of these PEG channels in its
sole discretion, provided they remain solely for non-commercial PEG purposes
and are operated in accordance with law.
            (c)    City may request additional channel(s) beyond the provisions
of subsection (E)1(b) of this section in accordance with applicable law,
including Minnesota Statutes section 238.084 which is expressly incorporated
herein by reference.
            (d)    The following governs the grantee's use of the PEG channels
for other services if a channel is not being fully utilized for PEG purposes:
               (1)    If a PEG channel is not "fully utilized" at any time
during the term of this agreement in accordance with subsection (E)1(d)(2) of
this section, the grantee may temporarily use the PEG channel no less than
sixty (60) days after submitting a written notice of such use to the City.
               (2)    The PEG channel shall be considered fully utilized if
programming is delivered over it more than thirty six (36) hours per week on
average over a six (6) month period, excluding character generated programming,
static bulletin board type programming, or programming repeated more than seven
(7) times in a single week (Monday - Sunday).
               (3)    If the PEG channel is being used by the grantee in
accordance with subsections (E)1(d)(1) and (E)1(d)(2) of this section, and the
City has determined in good faith that it or its designated PEG provider has
the ability to fully utilize the channel again, then the City shall request
return of the PEG channel by delivering written notice of same to the grantee,
which shall include adequate assurances by City of its ability to fully utilize
the channel. In such event, the PEG channel shall be returned to the City for
PEG programming within ninety (90) days after receipt by the grantee of such
written notice.
            (e)    Grantee shall designate channel 6 for uniform regional
channel usage only for so long as required by Minnesota Statutes section
238.43.
      2.   PEG Carriage Requirements:
            (a)    Nothing herein precludes the grantee from charging for any
equipment needed to receive basic cable service.
            (b)    The commission shall transport government programming
originating from Rosemount and Farmington City Halls to Apple Valley City Hall.
Grantee shall transport such programming from Apple Valley City Hall to
grantee's headend in three (3) separate streams to allow for narrowcasting the
programming to the three (3) individual cities on PEG channel #180 (the
"government channel"). Within sixty (60) days after the effective date, unless
delayed by events out of grantee's reasonable control, the commission shall
produce and transmit the government channel in high definition ("HD") and
grantee shall transport the government channel from Apple Valley City Hall to
grantee's headend in HD and narrowcast the appropriate programming stream on
the government channel in HD to each city (Apple Valley, Farmington or
Rosemount, Minnesota) in full satisfaction and compliance with resolution no.
_____ [customize per City] provided that the signals are received by the
grantee in HD and meet grantee's technical specifications for HD channels.
            (c)    The grantee shall transport educational programming produced
by ISD #192 and #196 from the locations indicated in subsection (E)3(c) of this
section to grantee's headend. Grantee shall narrowcast ISD #192 programming to
Farmington, and narrowcast ISD #196 programming to Apple Valley and Rosemount,
on PEG channel #189 (the "educational channel"). On or after June 1, 2018, the
commission may request, and the grantee shall convert the educational channel
to HD format provided that the signals received meet grantee's technical
specifications for HD channels and the grantee's out-of-pocket costs to receive
and distribute the educational programming on the educational channel in HD
("grantee costs") are reimbursed by the commission or the school districts in
an amount which shall not exceed seven thousand five hundred dollars
($7,500.00) unless approved by the commission. Upon receipt of the commission's
request to convert the educational channel to HD, the commission, the school
districts, and grantee shall obtain and share relevant information regarding
expected project costs, including work orders, vendor quotes and bid
specifications, and shall work cooperatively to attempt to minimize the total
cost. Once the estimated grantee costs are determined and approved by the
commission and the school districts, the parties shall move forward with the
conversion. Grantee shall submit invoices to the commission for reimbursement
which shall be payable within sixty (60) days of receipt. Grantee shall notify
the commission if the grantee costs will exceed seven thousand five hundred
dollars ($7,500.00) and shall not incur such costs without the approval of the
commission; the parties acknowledge that failure to timely approve necessary
grantee costs in excess of seven thousand five hundred dollars ($7,500.00) may
delay or halt the conversion. Nothing in this section shall make the grantee
responsible for grantee costs.
            (d)    The grantee shall transport other programming produced by
the commission or public from Apple Valley City Hall to grantee's headend and
cablecast such programming to Apple Valley, Farmington, and Rosemount on
channel #187 (the "public channel"). At such time that grantee delivers ninety
percent (90%) or more of its video programming in HD, the City may provide a
written request that the public channel be converted to an HD channel. City and
grantee shall implement the HD public channel on mutually acceptable terms and
conditions, provided that, the grantee shall not unreasonably refuse such
future conversion to HD.
            (e)    In the event the City or commission ceases to provide PEG
programming in HD format or grantee ceases to provide any channels in HD in the
City, grantee shall no longer be obligated to provide any HD PEG channels.
            (f)    The City acknowledges that receipt of an HD format channel
may require subscribers to buy or lease special equipment, or pay additional HD
charges applicable to all HD services provided by grantee.
            (g)    The use of specific PEG channel numbers in this exhibit B
shall not limit grantee's rights to relocate the PEG channels pursuant to
subsection (E)3(b) of this section.
      3.   PEG Channel Locations And Origination Sites:
            (a)    Grantee shall cablecast the PEG channels on the following
channel designations: channels 180, 187, and 189.
            (b)    Grantee shall give subscribers at least sixty (60) days
prior written notice of any relocation of the PEG channels to different channel
numbers. Prior to relocation, grantee shall inform subscribers of the new
channel locations through bill messages or inserts, and shall list the new
channel locations on the on-air program guide. The parties acknowledge that
grantee contracts with a third party or parties to provide on-screen and on-
line program listings. It shall be the responsibility of the City, or its
designee, to provide such detailed program information to the third-party
entity or entities that produce such listings for grantee in accordance with
each such entity's normal format and scheduling requirements and at the City's
cost.
            (c)    The grantee shall provide two-way capability permitting live
transmission of PEG channels and programming upstream to grantee's headend only
at the following three (3) locations:
                  Apple Valley City Hall, 7100 147th Street W., Apple Valley,
MN
                  ISD #192, 800 Denmark Avenue, Farmington, MN
                  ISD #196, 14450 Hayes Avenue, Apple Valley, MN
            (d)    The City shall have the right to extend additional two-way
connections on mutually acceptable terms and conditions from public
institutional sites to permit live transmission of PEG programming on PEG
channels to grantee's headend and onto the system at the City's expense. The
City may use the proceeds of the PEG fee to pay such construction or PEG
equipment and transmission costs.
      4.   PEG Technical Quality:
            (a)    The PEG channels shall meet FCC technical standards
including those applicable to the carriage of PEG channels, provided, however,
that the grantee is not responsible for the production quality of PEG
programming provided to the demarcation point.
            (b)    Upon request, throughout the term of the franchise, grantee
shall provide updated contact information for a local technical representative,
who shall be available to the City for consultation on technical matters as the
need may arise. This technical representative shall be accessed through a
direct telephone number available to the City (as opposed to a general public
number). The grantee shall not impose any unreasonable fees or charges to the
City for this technical consultation. If such consultation is insufficient to
diagnose the matter in question, within twenty four (24) hours of a written
request from City to the grantee identifying a technical problem with a PEG
channel signal and requesting assistance, grantee will provide, free of charge
to City, diagnostic services to determine whether or not a problem with a PEG
signal is the result of matters for which grantee is responsible and if so,
grantee will take prompt corrective action, free of charge to City, subject to
the limitations on grantee's responsibilities outlined herein. If the problem
persists and there is a reasonable dispute about the cause, then the parties
shall meet with engineering representation from grantee and the City in order
to mutually determine the course of action to remedy the problem. Nothing
herein shall be construed to obligate grantee to correct problems or take any
other action caused by City's signal, City's network or internal wiring, City's
equipment, PEG access program content or other issues within City's reasonable
control.
            (c)    Grantee shall comply with applicable law regarding the
carriage of PEG channels.
      5.   Channel Guide For PEG Channels: Grantee shall make its programming
guide vendor available to the commission, at the commission's cost, to
incorporate programming information about the commission's PEG channels in such
guide.
      6.   PEG Financial Support:
            (a)    Grantee and any additional providers shall collectively
remit a maximum of one million three hundred thousand dollars ($1,300,000.00)
to the commission during the initial term of the franchise for capital support
of PEG (the "PEG payment") pursuant to subsection (E)6(b) of this section. If
the aggregate amount of the PEG fees (defined below) remitted by grantee and
any additional providers to the commission ("aggregate PEG fees") collectively
reaches the maximum PEG payment of one million three hundred thousand dollars
($1,300,000.00) during the initial term of the franchise, grantee shall no
longer be under any obligation to collect and remit the PEG fees.
            (b)    Grantee shall collect a PEG fee of seventy five cents
($0.75) per subscriber per month (the "PEG fee") commencing no later than sixty
(60) days after the effective date. Thereafter, the grantee and the commission
shall review the PEG fee during the sixth year of the initial term and shall
adjust the PEG fee up or down based on the number of subscribers and the
aggregate PEG fees collected as of June 30, 2023 with the goal of reaching the
PEG payment amount ("adjusted PEG fee"); provided, however, that grantee and
any additional providers shall be under no obligation to pay more than the
adjusted PEG fee collected through the remainder of the initial term. Any
increase or decrease of the PEG fee shall be effective as of January 1, 2024
and the same PEG fee shall apply to grantee and all additional providers. For
purposes of this PEG fee, "subscriber" shall not include any person who
receives cable service on a complimentary basis or otherwise does not pay for
the cable service.
            (c)    The City shall provide grantee an annual report, on or
before October 1 of each year (excluding subscriber numbers) indicating the
total amount of the PEG payment received by City from grantee and any
additional providers through June 30 of that year.
            (d)    Grantee shall remit the amounts collected from PEG fees
quarterly to the City, not later than forty five (45) days following the end of
a given quarter.
            (e)    The cities shall use the proceeds of the PEG payment only
for capital support for PEG. In the event any amount of the PEG payment is not
used to support PEG capital, that amount may be offset against the franchise
fee in accordance with applicable law.
      7.   Level Terms: If any franchise or authorization with an additional
provider(s) requires such provider(s) to collect a PEG payment or PEG fee that
is less than that required in subsections (E)6(a) and (E)6(b) of this section,
grantee may reduce its PEG payment or PEG fee to an amount equivalent to the
PEG payment or PEG fee collected by such additional provider(s).
   (F)   Exhibit C; Franchise Fee Payment Worksheet:
   TRADE SECRET - CONFIDENTIAL
 Month/Year Month/Year Month/Year Total
                     Month/Year Month/Year Month/Year Total
Cable service revenue                                
Installation charge                                  
Franchise fee revenue                                
Advertising revenue                                  
Home shopping revenue                                
Other revenue                                        
Equipment rental                                     
REVENUE                                              
Fee calculated                                       
 
Fee factor: Five percent (5%).
   (G)   Exhibit D; Annual Report For PEG Capital Support:
                                       Annual Report For Public, Education And
                                       Government (PEG) Capital Support
City of                    
Date of report                             
Equipment name/type                        
Manufacturer name                          
Model number                               
Purpose or primary use of equipment        
Equipment location (full address, room     
number)
Cost $$                                    
In a separate document, describe the: 1) present cable-related needs of the
community; 2) operational support City provides to operate the PEG access
channel; 3) current level of programming on the PEG access channels,
indicating how many hours of programming are: a) local; b) character generated
or bulletin board-type programming; or c) repeated more than 7 times in a
single week (Monday - Sunday).
 
(Ord. 018-739, 6-18-2018)
CHAPTER 9
DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY
SECTION:
8-9-1: Definitions
8-9-2: Disposal of Property Other Than Motor Vehicles and City Property
8-9-3: Deposit of Net Proceeds
8-9-4: Disposal of Motor Vehicles
8-9-4-1: Right of Reclaim
8-9-4-2: Public Sale
8-9-4-3: Retention by City in Lieu of Public Sale
8-9-5: Immediate Sale
8-9-6: Disposal of City Property
8-9-6-1: Deposit of Net Proceeds
8-9-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, certain words and terms are hereby defined as
set forth in this Section.
CITY PROPERTY: Property purchased by or donated to the City.
MOTOR VEHICLE: Every vehicle which is self propelled.
NET PROCEEDS: The sale price of any item of property or of a motor vehicle,
less any costs of handling, storage and sale.
PROPERTY: All forms of tangible personal property, other than City property.
8-9-2: DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY OTHER THAN MOTOR VEHICLES AND CITY PROPERTY:
Unless otherwise specified in this Section, property lawfully coming into the
possession of the City and its duly designated agents, in the course of its
Municipal operations, shall be stored and safely maintained by the City for a
period of sixty (60) days. Such property shall be disposed of by the City in
the following manner.
   (A)   During such sixty (60) day period, the City may deliver such property
to the true owner thereof upon proof of ownership, and upon ten (10) days'
notice by mail to other persons who may have asserted a claim of true
ownership. In the event ownership cannot be determined to the satisfaction of
the City Clerk, or his designee, he may refuse to deliver such property to
anyone until ordered to do so by the court. The City Clerk may in his
discretion choose to deposit such property with the court if there are
sufficient competing claims to the property.
   (B)   If the true owner does not claim the property during the sixty (60)
day period, the City may release the unclaimed property to the finder of the
property if, at the time of delivery to the City, the finder indicated in
writing that he or she wished to assert a claim to the property as finder. This
subsection is not applicable if the property was found by a City officer,
employee or agent in the ordinary course of his duties.
   (C)   Upon the expiration of the sixty (60) day period, property remaining
unclaimed may be sold by the City to the highest bidder at public auction or
sale following one week's published notice thereof. In lieu of public auction
or sale, any of such unclaimed property may be appropriated to the use of the
City upon affirmative resolution of the City Council. If the property is not
sold at public auction or sale and is not deemed appropriate for use by the
City, the City Clerk may then dispose of the property in any manner deemed
appropriate.
   (D)   The City Clerk, or his designee, may at any time without notice and in
such manner as he determines to be in the public interest, dispose summarily of
any property coming into the City's possession which he determines to be
dangerous or perishable. The City Clerk shall make a record of the pertinent
facts of the receipt and disposal of such property.
8-9-3: DEPOSIT OF NET PROCEEDS:
The net proceeds of the sale of any property, other than a motor vehicle,
whether by public auction or sale, shall be deposited in the General Fund of
the City subject to the right of the former owner of the property to the
payment of the net sale proceeds from the General Fund upon application and
satisfactory proof of ownership within six (6) months of the sale.
8-9-4: DISPOSAL OF MOTOR VEHICLES:
Motor vehicles impounded by the City and its duly designated agents, or
otherwise lawfully coming into its possession during the course of its
Municipal operations, shall be disposed of as follows:
   (A)   The City shall give notice of the taking within ten (10) days unless
the vehicle is reclaimed prior thereto.
   (B)   The notice shall set forth the date and place of taking, the year,
make, model and serial number of the vehicle, if such information can be
reasonably obtained, and the place where the vehicle is being held.
   (C)   The notice shall inform the owner and any lien holders of the right to
reclaim the vehicle.
   (D)   The notice shall state that failure of the owner or lien holders to
exercise their right to reclaim shall be deemed a waiver by them of all right,
title and interest in the vehicle and contents and a consent to the sale of the
vehicle and contents at a public auction or sale.
   (E)   The notice shall be sent by mail to the registered owner, if any, of
the vehicle, and to all readily identifiable lien holders of record. If it is
impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and address of
the registered owner and all lien holders, the notice shall be published once
in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the motor vehicle was
taken.
8-9-4-1: RIGHT OF RECLAIM:
The owner or lien holder shall have the right to reclaim the vehicle from the
City upon payment of all towing and storage charges resulting from the taking
within fifteen (15) days of the notice required by this Section.
8-9-4-2: PUBLIC SALE:
   (A)   If the vehicle is not reclaimed pursuant to Section
8-9-4-1, it may be sold to the highest bidder at a public auction or sale. The
purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by the registrar of
motor vehicles which shall be sufficient title to dispose of the vehicle. The
receipt shall entitle the purchaser to register the vehicle and receive a
certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and claims of ownership.
Before such vehicle is issued a new certificate of title, it must receive a
motor vehicle safety check.
   (B)   Proceeds of the sale will be used to reimburse the City for its costs
involved in towing, preserving and storing the vehicle, and all administrative,
notice and publication costs. Any remainder from the proceeds of a sale shall
be held for the previous owner or entitle lien holders for ninety (90) days and
then shall be deposited in the Treasury of the City.
8-9-4-3: RETENTION BY CITY IN LIEU OF PUBLIC SALE:
The City may, in lieu of public auction or sale as provided in Section
 8-9-4-2, retain possession and use of any motor vehicle not reclaimed pursuant
to Section
8-9-4-1, subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   The City shall retain possession upon affirmative resolution by the
City Council.
   (B)   The City shall give notice as provided in Section
8-9-4(A-E).
   (C)   The City shall register the vehicle and receive a certificate of title
as provided for purchasers at public sale in Section
8-9-4-2.
   (D)   The previous owner or lien holder shall have the right to reclaim the
vehicle from the City, upon payment of all towing and storage charges resulting
from the taking, within ninety (90) days of the City Council resolution
authorizing the retention of the vehicle by the City.
8-9-5: IMMEDIATE SALE:
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Chapter, if a motor vehicle is
more than seven (7) model years of age, is lacking vital component parts and
does not display a license plate currently valid in Minnesota or any other
state or foreign country, it shall immediately be eligible for public sale
pursuant to Section
8-9-4-2, and shall not be subject to notification, reclamation, retention by
the City or title provisions specified herein. (Ord. 088-201, 6-6-88)
8-9-6: DISPOSAL OF CITY PROPERTY:
At such time as it is necessary to dispose of City property, the City Clerk
shall determine if said property is salable or should be disposed of. The City,
at the following Council meeting, shall provide the City Council with a list of
items that are not salable. The City Council shall authorize the disposal of
the property and the City Clerk shall dispose of the items in any manner deemed
appropriate. At such time as it is necessary to dispose of salable City
property, a list of said property shall be made and become part of a resolution
authorizing the sale of City property. Upon the adoption and publication of the
resolution authorizing the sale of City property, a notice of the public sale
shall be published in the official City newspaper. Any property not sold at the
public sale may be disposed of by the City Clerk in any manner deemed
appropriate. (Ord. 091-240, 2-4-91)
8-9-6-1: DEPOSIT OF NET PROCEEDS:
The net proceeds of the sale of City property shall be deposited in the City's
General Fund. (Ord. 088-201, 6-6-88)
FA192   8-10.txt
CHAPTER 10
STORM WATER UTILITY
SECTION:
8-10-1: Storm Water Utility Established
8-10-2: Definitions
8-10-3: Storm Water Utility Fees
8-10-4: Credits
8-10-5: Exemptions
8-10-6: Payment Of Fee
8-10-7: Recalculation Of Fee
8-10-8: Penalty For Late Payment
8-10-9: Certification Of Past Due Fees On Taxes
8-10-10: Storm Water Area Charge
8-10-11: Discharges Into The Storm Sewer System
8-10-1: STORM WATER UTILITY ESTABLISHED:
The municipal storm sewer system shall be operated as a public utility pursuant
to MSA section 444.075 from which revenues will be derived subject to the
provisions of this chapter and Minnesota statutes. The storm water utility will
be part of the general services department and under the administration of the
city engineer. (Ord. 089-221, 9-5-1989)
8-10-2: DEFINITIONS:
RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT FACTOR (REF): One REF is defined as the ratio of the
average volume of runoff generated by ten thousand (10,000) square feet of a
given land use to the average volume of runoff generated by ten thousand
(10,000) square feet of typical single-family residential land, during a
standard one year rainfall event. (Ord. 089-221, 9-5-1989)
8-10-3: STORM WATER UTILITY FEES:
Storm water utility fees for parcels of land shall be determined by multiplying
the REF for a parcel's land use by the parcel's acreage and then multiplying
the resulting product by the storm water utility rate. The REF values for
various land uses are as follows:
Lot Type  Description  REF Coefficients
Lot Type   Description                   REF Coefficients
1         Single- and two-family lots  See note 1
2         Multiplexes                  0.60
3         Apartments and condominiums  0.70
4         Downtown business            0.95
5         Light industrial             0.80
6         Heavy industrial             0.90
7         Schools                      0.90
8         Churches                     0.90
9         Parks                        0.25
10        Cemeteries                   0.25
11        Railroad                     0.40
12        Undeveloped                  0.00
 
Note:
1.   For the purpose of calculating storm water utility fees, all developed and
undeveloped single-family and two-family parcels shall be considered one REF.
(Ord. 089-221, 9-5-1989)
8-10-4: CREDITS:
The council may adopt policies recommended by the city engineer, by resolution,
for adjustment of the storm water utility fee for parcels based upon hydrologic
data to be supplied by property owners, which data demonstrates a hydrologic
response substantially different from the standards. Such adjustments of storm
water utility fees shall not be made retroactively. (Ord. 089-221, 9-5-1989)
8-10-5: EXEMPTIONS:
The following land uses are exempt from storm water utility fees:
   (A)   Vacant, unimproved land.
   (B)   Public streets and rights of way. (Ord. 089-221, 9-5-1989)
8-10-6: PAYMENT OF FEE:
Statements for stormwater utility fees shall be computed every three (3) months
and invoiced by the finance department for each account on or about the first
day of the month following the quarter. Such statement shall be due on or
before the last day of the month in which the statement is mailed. Any
prepayment or overpayment of charges shall be retained by the city and applied
against any subsequent quarterly fees.
Newly platted lots shall not be billed a stormwater utility fee until the
public improvements outlined in the developer's agreement have been installed
and approved by the city engineer. (Ord. 089-221, 9-5-1989)
8-10-7: RECALCULATION OF FEE:
If a property owner or person responsible for paying the stormwater utility fee
questions the correctness of an invoice for such charge, such person may have
the determination of the charge recomputed by written request to the city
engineer made within twelve (12) months of mailing of the invoice in question
by the city. (Ord. 089-221, 9-5-1989)
8-10-8: PENALTY FOR LATE PAYMENT:
Each quarterly billing for stormwater utility fee not paid when due shall incur
a penalty as stated in the most recently approved ordinance establishing
charges and fees. (Ord. 015-695, 3-16-2015)
8-10-9: CERTIFICATION OF PAST DUE FEES ON TAXES:
Any past due stormwater utility fee may be certified to the county auditor for
collection with real estate taxes in the following year pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes Annotated section 444.075, subdivision 3. In addition, the city shall
also have the right to bring a civil action or to take other legal remedies to
collect unpaid fees. (Ord. 015-695, 3-16-2015)
8-10-10: STORMWATER AREA CHARGE:
No building permit, subdivision or rezoning or action by the zoning board of
adjustment shall be approved until the applicant has paid a stormwater area
charge for past, present or future stormwater runoff facilities. Said charge
shall be based on and used in accordance with the Farmington stormwater
management plan as amended. (Ord. 089-224, 12-4-1989)
8-10-11: DISCHARGES INTO THE STORM SEWER SYSTEM:
Discharge of any manmade or naturally occurring substances into the city's
municipal storm sewer system is prohibited except:
   (A)   Water from any roof.
   (B)   Surface water runoff from natural precipitation or water obtained from
the municipal water supply.
   (C)   Water from a groundwater sump pump.
   (D)   Water from a footing tile around the foundation of a structure.
   (E)   Water from a swimming pool that originated from the municipal water
supply. (Ord. 007-572, 3-19-2007)
FA192   8-11.txt
CHAPTER 11
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
8-11-1: Findings, Purpose, And Intent
8-11-2: Election To Manage The Public Rights-Of-Way
8-11-3: Definitions
8-11-4: Administration
8-11-5: Registration And Right-Of-Way Occupancy
8-11-6: Registration Information
8-11-7: Reporting Obligations
8-11-8: Permit Requirement
8-11-9: Permit Applications
8-11-10: Issuance Of Permit; Conditions
8-11-11: Action On Utility Construction Permit Applications
8-11-12: Permit Fees
8-11-13: Right-Of-Way Patching And Restoration
8-11-14: Joint Applications
8-11-15: Supplementary Applications
8-11-16: Other Obligations And Construction Specifications
8-11-17: Denial Of Permit
8-11-18: Installation Requirements
8-11-19: Inspection
8-11-20: Work Done Without A Permit
8-11-21: Supplementary Notification
8-11-22: Revocation Of Permits
8-11-23: Mapping Data
8-11-24: Location And Relocation Of Facilities
8-11-25: Pre-Excavation Facilities Location
8-11-26: Damage To Other Facilities
8-11-27: Right-Of-Way Vacation
8-11-28: Indemnification And Liability
8-11-29: Abandoned And Unusable Facilities
8-11-30: Appeal
8-11-31: Reservation Of Regulatory And Police Powers
8-11-32: Severability
8-11-1: FINDINGS, PURPOSE, AND INTENT:
To provide for the health, safety, and welfare of its citizens, and to ensure
the integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights-of-way, the
City strives to keep its rights-of- way in a state of good repair and free from
unnecessary encumbrances.
Accordingly, the City hereby enacts this chapter relating to right-of-way
permits and administration. This chapter imposes reasonable regulation on the
placement and maintenance of facilities and equipment currently within its
rights-of-way or to be placed therein at some future time. It is intended to
complement the regulatory roles of State and Federal agencies. Under this
chapter, persons excavating and obstructing the rights-of-way will bear
financial responsibility for their work. Finally, this chapter provides for
recovery of out-of-pocket and projected costs from persons using the public
rights-of-way. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-2: ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY:
Pursuant to the authority granted to the City under State and Federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the City hereby elects, pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes 237.163 subd. 2(b), to manage rights-of-way within its
jurisdiction.
This chapter shall be interpreted consistently with 1997 Session Laws, chapter
123, substantially codified in Minnesota Statutes sections 237.16, 237.162,
237.163, 237.79, 237.81, and 238.086 (the "Act") and 2017 Minn. Laws, chapter
94, article 9, amending the Act, and the other laws governing applicable rights
of the City and users of the right-of-way. This chapter shall also be
interpreted consistent with Minn. R. 7819.0050 - 7819.9950 and Minn. R.,
chapter 7560 where possible. To the extent any provision of this chapter cannot
be interpreted consistently with the Minnesota Rules, that interpretation most
consistent with the Act and other applicable statutory and case law is
intended. This chapter shall not be interpreted to limit the regulatory and
police powers of the City to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-
2017)
8-11-3: DEFINITIONS:
The following definitions apply in this chapter. References hereafter to
"sections" are, unless otherwise specified, references to sections in this
chapter. Defined terms remain defined terms, whether or not capitalized.
ABANDONED FACILITY: A facility no longer in service or physically disconnected
from a portion of the operating facility, or from any other facility, that is
in use or still carries service. A facility is not abandoned unless declared so
by the right-of-way user.
APPLICANT: Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right-of-
way.
CITY: The City of Farmington, Minnesota. For purposes of section
8-11-28 of this chapter, City also means the City's elected officials,
officers, employees, and agents.
COLLOCATE OR COLLOCATION: To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or
replace a small wireless facility on, under, within, or adjacent to an existing
wireless support structure or utility pole that is owned privately, or by the
City or other governmental unit.
COMMISSION: The State Public Utilities Commission.
CONGESTED RIGHT-OF-WAY: A crowded condition in the subsurface of the public
right-of-way that occurs when the maximum lateral spacing between existing
underground facilities does not allow for construction of new underground
facilities without using hand digging to expose the existing lateral facilities
in conformance with Minnesota Statutes section 216D.04, subd. 3, over a
continuous length in excess of five hundred feet (500').
CONSTRUCTION PERFORMANCE BOND: Any of the following forms of security provided
at permittee's option:
Individual project bond;
Cash deposit;
Security of a form listed or approved under Minnesota Statutes section 15.73,
subd. 3;
Letter of credit, in a form acceptable to the City;
Self-insurance, in a form acceptable to the City;
A blanket bond for projects within the City, or other form of construction
bond, for a time specified and in a form acceptable to the City.
CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS: Such requirements and conditions imposed by the
City on an applicant, permit, permittee, registrant, or right-of-way user for
use of the right-of-way in order to protect the health, safety, and welfare, or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use.
DEGRADATION: A decrease in the useful life of the right-of-way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right-of-way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right-of-way earlier than would be required if the excavation
or disturbance did not occur.
DEGRADATION COST: Subject to Minn. R. 7819.1100, means the cost to achieve a
level of restoration, as determined by the City at the time the permit is
issued, not to exceed the maximum restoration shown in plates 1 to 13, set
forth in Minn. R., parts 7819.9900 to 7819.9950.
DEGRADATION FEE: The estimated fee established at the time of permitting by the
City to recover costs associated with the decrease in the useful life of the
right-of-way caused by the excavation, and which equals the degradation cost.
DELAY PENALTY: The penalty imposed as a result of unreasonable delays in right-
of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration as established by
permit.
DEPARTMENT: The Department of Public Works of the City.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Department of Public Works of the City, or her or
his designee.
EMERGENCY: A condition that: a) poses a danger to life or health, or of a
significant loss of property; or b) requires immediate repair or replacement of
facilities in order to restore service to a customer.
EQUIPMENT: Any tangible asset used to install, repair, or maintain facilities
in any right-of-way.
EXCAVATE: To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or penetrate
any part of a right-of-way.
FACILITY OR FACILITIES: Any tangible asset in the right-of-way required to
provide utility service.
FIVE-YEAR PROJECT PLAN: Shows projects adopted by the City for construction
within the next five (5) years.
GENERAL EXCAVATION PERMIT: The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may excavate in a right-of-way. An excavation permit
allows the holder to excavate that part of the right-of-way described in such
permit.
GENERAL EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE: Money paid to the City by an applicant to cover
the costs as provided in section
8-11-12 of this chapter.
HIGH DENSITY CORRIDOR: A designated portion of the public right- of-way within
which telecommunications right-of-way users having multiple and competing
facilities may be required to build and install facilities in a common conduit
system or other common structure.
HOLE: An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length less
than the width of the pavement.
LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE: A local person or persons, or designee of such person or
persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions for
that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this chapter.
MANAGEMENT COSTS: The actual costs the City incurs in managing its rights-of-
way, including such costs, if incurred, as those associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way or small wireless
facility permit applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects;
maintaining, supporting, protecting, or moving user facilities during right-of-
way work; determining the adequacy of right-of- way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed after providing notice and the opportunity to correct
the work; and revoking right-of-way or small wireless facility permits.
Management costs do not include payment by a telecommunications right-of-way
user for the use of the right-of-way, unreasonable fees of a third-party
contractor used by the City including fees tied to or based on customer counts,
access lines, or revenues generated by the right-of-way or for the City, the
fees and cost of litigation relating to the interpretation of Minnesota Session
Laws 1997, chapter 123; Minnesota Statutes sections 237.162 or 237.163; or any
ordinance enacted under those sections, or the City fees and costs related to
appeals taken pursuant to section
8-11-30 of this chapter.
MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY: A small wireless facility that is no larger than
twenty four inches (24") long, fifteen inches (15") wide, and twelve inches
(12") high, and whose exterior antenna, if any is no longer than eleven inches
(11").
OBSTRUCT: To place any tangible object in a right-of-way so as to hinder free
and open passage over that or any part of the right- of-way.
OBSTRUCTION PERMIT: The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right-of-way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right-of-way,
for the duration specified therein.
OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE: Money paid to the City by a permittee to cover the
costs as provided in section
8-11-12 of this chapter.
PATCH OR PATCHING: A method of pavement replacement that is temporary in
nature. A patch consists of: a) the compaction of the subbase and aggregate
base, and b) the replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement for a minimum
of two feet (2') beyond the edges of the excavation in all directions. A patch
is considered full restoration only when the pavement is included in the City's
five-year project plan.
PAVEMENT: Any type of improved surface that is within the public right-of-way
and that is paved or otherwise constructed with bituminous, concrete,
aggregate, or gravel.
PERMIT: Has the meaning given "right-of-way permit" in Minnesota Statutes
section 237.162.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right-of-way
has been granted by the City under this chapter.
PERSON: An individual or entity subject to the laws and rules of this State,
however organized, whether public or private, whether domestic or foreign,
whether for profit or nonprofit, and whether natural, corporate, or political.
PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY: The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, cartway, bicycle lane, or public sidewalk in which the City has an
interest, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes and
utility easements of the City. A right-of-way does not include the airwaves
above a right-of-way with regard to cellular or other non-wire
telecommunications or broadcast service.
REGISTRANT: Any person who: a) has or seeks to have its equipment or facilities
located in any right-of-way, or b) in any way occupies or uses, or seeks to
occupy or use, the right-of-way or place its facilities or equipment in the
right-of-way.
RESTORATION COST: The amount of money paid to the City by a permittee to
achieve the level of restoration according to plates 1 to 13 of Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission rules.
RESTORE OR RESTORATION: The process by which an excavated right- of-way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition and life expectancy that existed before excavation.
RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT: Either the utility permit, excavation permit, or the
obstruction permit, depending on the context, required by this chapter.
RIGHT-OF-WAY USER: (A) A telecommunications right-of-way user as defined by
Minnesota Statutes, section 237.162, subd. 4; or
   (B)   A person owning or controlling a facility in the right-of-way that is
used or intended to be used for providing utility service, and who has a right
under law, franchise, or ordinance to use the public right-of-way.
SERVICE OR UTILITY SERVICE: Includes: a) those services provided by a public
utility as defined in Minnesota Statutes 216B.02, subds. 4 and 6; b) services
of a telecommunications right-of-way user, including transporting of voice or
data information; c) services of a cable communications systems as defined in
Minnesota Statutes chapter 238; d) natural gas or electric energy or
telecommunications services provided by the City; e) services provided by a
cooperative electric association organized under Minnesota Statutes, chapter
308A; and f) water, and sewer, including service laterals, steam, cooling, or
heating services.
SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY: (A) A wireless facility that meets both of the
following qualifications:
1. Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of no more than six (6) cubic
feet in volume or could fit within such an enclosure; and
2. All other wireless equipment associated with the small wireless facility
provided such equipment is, in aggregate, no more than twenty eight (28) cubic
feet in volume, not including electric meters, concealment elements,
telecommunications demarcation boxes, battery backup power systems, grounding
equipment, power transfer switches, cutoff switches, cable, conduit, vertical
cable runs for the connection of power and other services, and any equipment
concealed from public view within or behind an existing structure or
concealment; or
   (B)   A micro wireless facility.
SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION: An application made to excavate or obstruct more of
the right-of-way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already been
issued.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS RIGHT-OF-WAY USER: A person owning or controlling a facility
in the right-of-way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the right-of-
way that is used or is intended to be used for providing wireless service, or
transporting telecommunication or other voice or data information. For purposes
of this chapter, a cable communication system defined and regulated under
Minnesota Statutes chapter 238, and telecommunication activities related to
providing natural gas or electric energy services, a public utility as defined
in Minnesota Statutes section 216B.02, a municipality, a municipal gas or power
agency organized under Minnesota Statutes chapter 453 and 453A, or a
cooperative electric association organized under Minnesota Statutes chapter
308A, are not telecommunications right-of-way users for purposes of this
chapter except to the extent such entity is offering wireless service.
TEMPORARY SURFACE: The compaction of subbase and aggregate base and
replacement, in kind, of the existing pavement only to the edges of the
excavation. It is temporary in nature except when the replacement is of
pavement included in the City's two-year plan, in which case it is considered
full restoration.
TRENCH: An excavation in the pavement, with the excavation having a length
equal to or greater than the width of the pavement.
TWO YEAR PROJECT PLAN: Shows projects adopted by the City for construction
within the next two (2) years.
UTILITY CONSTRUCTION PERMIT: The permit which, pursuant to this chapter, must
be obtained before a person may install, repair, or relocate a facility,
including small wireless facility, in the right-of-way as described in the
permit.
UTILITY CONSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE: Money paid to the City by a permittee to cover
the costs as provided in section
8-11-12 of this chapter.
UTILITY POLE: A pole that is used in whole or in part to facilitate
telecommunications or electric service.
WIRELESS FACILITY: Equipment at a fixed location that enables the provision of
wireless services between user equipment and a wireless service network,
including equipment associated with wireless service, a radio transceiver,
antenna, coaxial or fiber- optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and
a small wireless facility, but not including wireless support structures,
wireline backhaul facilities, or cables between utility poles or wireless
support structures, or not otherwise immediately adjacent to and directly
associated with a specific antenna.
WIRELESS SERVICE: Any service using licensed or unlicensed wireless spectrum,
including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or by means of a mobile
device, that is provided using wireless facilities. Wireless service does not
include services regulated under title VI of the Communications Act of 1934, as
amended, including cable service.
WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE: A new or existing structure in a right-of-way
designed to support or capable of supporting small wireless facilities, as
reasonably determined by the City.
WIRELINE BACKHAUL FACILITY: A facility used to transport communications data by
wire from a wireless facility to a communications network. (Ord. 017-735, 12-
18-2017; amd. Ord. 2025-002, 5-5-2025)
8-11-4: ADMINISTRATION:
The Director is the principal City official responsible for the administration
of the rights-of-way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances related thereto.
The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder. (Ord. 017-735,
12-18-2017)
8-11-5: REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY:
   (A)   Registration: Each person who occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease, or assignment, must register with the City. Registration will
consist of providing application information.
   (B)   Registration Prior To Work: No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any facilities or any
part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with the City.
   (C)   Exceptions: Nothing herein relieves a person from complying with the
provisions of the Minnesota Statutes chapter 216D, Gopher One Call Law. (Ord.
017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-6: REGISTRATION INFORMATION:
   (A)   Information Required: The information provided to the City at the time
of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.   Each registrant’s name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and email address and telephone and facsimile numbers. Each
registrant and each contractor of registrant shall also be registered with and
have a current certificate of insurance on file with the City via the Dakota
County One Stop Roadway Permit Shop. Such certificate of insurance shall comply
with the requirements of section
8-11-6 (A)3 of this chapter.
      2.   The name, address, and email address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      3.   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
            (a)    Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the City;
            (b)    Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the: 1) use and occupancy of the right-of- way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees, and 2) placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees, and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities, and collapse of property;
            (c)    Naming the City as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
            (d)    Requiring that the City be notified thirty (30) days in
advance of cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage
term; and
            (e)    Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers' compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the City in amounts sufficient to protect the City and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
            (f)    The City may require a copy of the actual insurance
policies.
            (g)    If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate is
required to be filed under State law as recorded and certified to by the
Secretary of State.
            (h)    A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of
authority from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other authorization
or approval from the applicable State or Federal agency to lawfully operate,
where the person is lawfully required to have such authorization or approval
from said commission or other State or Federal agency.
   (B)   Notice Of Changes: The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the City information as to
changes within fifteen (15) days following the date on which the registrant has
knowledge of any change. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2025-002, 5-5-
2025)
8-11-7: REPORTING OBLIGATIONS:
   (A)   Operations: Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by
December 1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan for
underground facilities with the City. Such plan shall be submitted using a
format designated by the City and shall contain the information determined by
the City to be necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the
frequency of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way. The plan shall
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      1.   The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of all
projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this section, a
"next-year project"); and
      2.   To the extent known, the tentative locations and estimated beginning
and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the five (5) years following
the next calendar year (in this section, a "five-year project").
The term "project" in this section shall include both next- year projects and
five-year projects.
   (B)   Additional Next-Year Projects: Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City
will not deny an application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a
project in a plan submitted to the City if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project. (Ord. 017-735, 12-
18-2017)
8-11-8: PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
   (A)   Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this Code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way, or install or place facilities in
the right-of-way, without first having obtained the appropriate right-of-way
permit from the City to do so.
      1.   Utility Construction Permit: A utility construction permit is
required by a registrant to install, repair, or relocate a facility, erect or
install a wireless support structure, collocate a small wireless facility, or
to otherwise install a small wireless facility in the specified portion of the
right-of- way, to the extent specified therein, provided that such permit shall
remain in effect for the length of time the facility is in use, unless lawfully
revoked.
      2.   General Excavation Permit: A general excavation permit is required
by a registrant to excavate that part of the right-of- way described in such
permit and to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the
right-of-way by placing facilities described therein, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. A general excavation permit is not required if a
person already possesses a valid utility construction permit for the same
project.
      3.   Obstruction Permit: An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right-
of-way by placing equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not
required if a person already possesses a valid utility construction or general
excavation permit for the same project.
   (B)   Permit Extensions: No person may excavate, place a utility service, or
obstruct the right-of-way beyond the date or dates specified in the permit
unless: 1) such person makes a supplementary application for another right-of-
way permit before the expiration of the initial permit, and 2) a new permit or
permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay Penalty: In accordance with Minn. Rule 7819.1000 subp. 3 and
notwithstanding subsection (B) of this section, the City shall establish and
impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Permit Display: Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the City.
   (E)   Routine Maintenance Activities: Persons performing maintenance
activities that obstruct the right-of-way shall provide the City advance
notification of these activities. An obstruction permit is required for any
maintenance activity that obstructs the roadway or pedestrian facilities within
the right- of-way.
   (F)   Special Exception For Small Wireless Facilities: As required by State
law, a person is not required to pay a permit fee, obtain a right-of-way
permit, or enter into a small wireless facility collocation agreement solely in
order to conduct any of the following activities:
      1.   Routine maintenance of a small wireless facility;
      2.   Replacement of a small wireless facility with a new facility that is
substantially similar or smaller in size, weight, height, and wind or
structural loading than the small wireless facility being replaced; or
      3.   Installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement of
micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung between existing
utility poles in compliance with national safety codes.
Persons that perform these excepted activities shall provide the City advance
notification of these activities if the work will obstruct a public right-of-
way.
An obstruction permit is required for any work that obstructs the roadway or
pedestrian facilities. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-9: PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   Application for a permit is made to the City. Right-of-way permit
applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with, the requirements of the following provisions:
      1.   Registration with the City pursuant to this chapter.
      2.   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities. The permit application shall include a traffic management plan as
required by section
8-11-16 .
      3.   Payment of money due the City for:
            (a)    Permit fees, estimated restoration costs, and other
management costs;
            (b)    Prior obstructions or excavations;
            (c)    Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the City
because of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the City;
            (d)    Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
      4.   Payment of disputed amounts due the City by posting security or
depositing in an escrow account an amount equal to at least one hundred ten
percent (110%) of the amount owing. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2025-
002, 5-5-2025)
8-11-10: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS:
   (A)   Permit Issuance: If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the City shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions: The City may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, State, and Federal laws, including but not limited to
the Construction Specifications set forth in section
8-11-6  of this chapter, Minnesota Statutes sections 216D.01 - .09 (Gopher One
Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn. R., chapter 7560.
   (C)   Small Wireless Facility Conditions: In addition to subsection (B) of
this section, the erection or installation of a wireless support structure, the
collocation of a small wireless facility, or other installation of a small
wireless facility in the right- of-way, shall be subject to the following
conditions:
      1.   A small wireless facility shall only be collocated on the particular
wireless support structure, under those attachment specifications, and at the
height indicated in the applicable permit application.
      2.   No new wireless support structure installed within the right- of-way
shall exceed fifty feet (50') in height without the City's written
authorization, provided that the City may impose a lower height limit in the
applicable permit to protect the public health, safety and welfare or to
protect the right-of-way and its current use, and further provided that a
registrant may replace an existing wireless support structure exceeding fifty
feet (50') in height with a structure of the same height subject to such
conditions or requirements as may be imposed in the applicable permit.
      3.   No wireless facility may extend more than ten feet (10') above its
wireless support structure.
      4.   Where an applicant proposes to install a new wireless support
structure in the right-of-way, the City may impose separation requirements
between such structure and any existing wireless support structure or other
facilities in and around the right-of- way.
      5.   Where an applicant proposes collocation on a decorative wireless
support structure, sign or other structure not intended to support small
wireless facilities, the City may impose reasonable requirements to accommodate
the particular design, appearance or intended purpose of such structure.
      6.   Where an applicant proposes to replace a wireless support structure,
the City may impose reasonable restocking, replacement, or relocation
requirements on the replacement of such structure.
   (D)   Small Wireless Facility Agreement: A small wireless facility shall
only be collocated on a small wireless support structure owned or controlled by
the City, or any other City asset in the right-of-way, after the applicant has
executed a standard small wireless facility collocation agreement with the
City. The standard collocation agreement may require payment of the following:
      1.   Up to one hundred fifty dollars ($150.00) per year for rent to
collocate on the City structure;
      2.   Twenty five dollars ($25.00) per year for maintenance associated
with the collocation;
      3.   A monthly fee for electrical service as follows:
            (a)    Seventy three dollars ($73.00) per radio node less than or
equal to one hundred (100) maximum watts;
            (b)    One hundred eighty two dollars ($182.00) per radio node over
one hundred (100) maximum watts; or
            (c)    The actual costs of electricity, if the actual costs exceed
the foregoing.
The standard collocation agreement shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of,
the required utility construction permit, provided, however, that the applicant
shall not be additionally required to obtain a license or franchise in order to
collocate. Issuance of a utility construction permit does not supersede, alter
or affect any then-existing agreement between the City and applicant. (Ord.
017-735, 12-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2025-002, 5-5-2025)
8-11-11: ACTION ON UTILITY CONSTRUCTION PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   Deadline For Action: The City shall approve or deny a utility
construction permit application for small wireless facilities within ninety
(90) days after filing of such application. The utility construction permit,
and any associated building permit application, shall be deemed approved if the
City fails to approve or deny the application within the review periods
established in this section.
   (B)   Consolidated Applications: An applicant may file a consolidated
utility construction permit application for small wireless facilities
addressing the proposed collocation of up to fifteen (15) small wireless
facilities, or a greater number if agreed to by a local government unit,
provided that all small wireless facilities in the application:
      1.   Are located within a two-mile radius;
      2.   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
      3.   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support structures.
In rendering a decision on a consolidated permit application, the City may
approve some small wireless facilities and deny others, but may not use denial
of one or more permits as a basis to deny all small wireless facilities in the
application.
   (C)   Tolling Of Deadline: The 90-day deadline for action on a utility
construction permit application for small wireless facilities may be tolled if:
      1.   The City receives applications from one or more applicants seeking
approval of permits for more than thirty (30) small wireless facilities within
a seven-day period. In such case, the City may extend the deadline for all such
applications by thirty (30) days by informing the affected applicants in
writing of such extension.
      2.   The applicant fails to submit all required documents or information
and the City provides written notice of incompleteness to the applicant within
thirty (30) days of receipt of the application. Upon submission of additional
documents or information, the City shall have ten (10) days to notify the
applicant in writing of any still-missing information.
      3.   The City and a small wireless facility applicant agree in writing to
toll the review period. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-12: PERMIT FEES:
   (A)   Utility Construction Permit Fee: The City shall impose a utility
construction permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover:
      1.   Management costs; and
      2.   Degradation costs and City engineering, make-ready, and construction
costs associated with collocation of small wireless facilities.
   (B)   General Excavation Permit Fee: The City shall impose a general
excavation permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      1.   The City management costs;
      2.   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (C)   Obstruction Permit Fee: The City shall impose an obstruction permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the City management costs.
   (D)   Payment Of Permit Fees: No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
City may allow applicant to pay such fees within thirty (30) days of billing.
   (E)   Nonrefundable: Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the City
has revoked for a breach as stated in section
8-11-22 of this chapter are not refundable.
   (F)   Application To Franchises: Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise. (Ord. 017-735,
12-18-2017)
8-11-13: RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION:
   (A)   Timing: The work to be done under the utility construction and general
excavation permit, and the patching and restoration of the right-of-way as
required herein, must be completed within the dates specified in the permit,
increased by as many days as work could not be done because of circumstances
beyond the control of the permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal
or unreasonable under section
8-11-16 of this chapter.
   (B)   Patch And Restoration: Permittee shall patch its own work, restore the
right-of-way and assume all costs therefor unless otherwise agreed upon.
      1.   City Restoration: If the City restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within thirty (30) days of billing. If, during the
twenty four (24) months following such restoration, the pavement settles due to
permittee's improper backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the City, within
thirty (30) days of billing, all costs associated with correcting the defective
work.
      2.   Permittee Restoration: If the permittee restores the right-of- way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance security specified by the City. If, within twenty four
(24) months after completion of restoration of the right-of-way, the City
determines that the right-of-way has been properly restored, the construction
performance surety shall be released.
   (C)   Standards: The permittee shall perform excavation, backfilling,
patching, and restoration according to the standards and with the materials
specified by the City and shall comply with Minn. Rule 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty To Correct Defects: The permittee shall guarantee its work and
restoration of the right-of-way and maintain it for twenty four (24) months
following its completion. The obligation is limited to twelve (12) months for
plantings and turf establishment. During this twenty four (24) month period,
the permittee shall, upon notification from the City, correct all defects in
patching or restoration to the extent necessary, using the method required by
the City. Said work shall be completed within five (5) calendar days of the
receipt of the notice from the City, not including days during which work
cannot be done because of circumstances constituting force majeure or days when
work is prohibited as unseasonable or unreasonable under section
8-11-16 of this chapter.
   (E)   Failure To Restore: If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the City, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the City, the
City at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the City, within thirty (30) days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-
of-way. If permittee fails to pay as required, the City may exercise its rights
under the construction performance bond. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-14: JOINT APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   Joint Application: Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right-of-way at the same place and time.
   (B)   Shared Fees: Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the City does not perform, may share in the
payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. In order to obtain a joint
permit, registrants must agree among themselves as to the portion each will pay
and indicate the same on their applications.
   (C)   With City Projects: Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the City, whether or not it is a joint application by
two (2) or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay
the excavation or obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee, but a
permit would still be required. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-15: SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS:
   (A)   Limitation On Area: A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater
area: 1) make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby, and 2) be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation On Dates: A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-16: OTHER OBLIGATIONS AND CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS:
   (A)   Compliance With Other Laws: Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by the City or other applicable
rule, law or regulation. A permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, State and Federal laws, including but not limited to Minnesota Statutes
sections 216D.01 - .09 (Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn. R.,
chapter 7560. A permittee shall perform all work in conformance with all
applicable codes and established rules and regulations, and is responsible for
all work done in the right- of-way pursuant to its permit, regardless of who
does the work.
   (B)   Prohibited Work: Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
City, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   (C)   Interference With Right-Of-Way: A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right-of-way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles of those
doing work in the right-of-way may not be parked within or next to a permit
area, unless parked in conformance with City parking regulations. The loading
or unloading of trucks must be done solely within the defined permit area
unless specifically authorized by the permit. Traffic control shall conform to
the Minnesota Manual On Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MMUTCD), its field
manual, and any written directions from the City.
   (D)   Trenchless Excavation: As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
Minnesota Statutes chapter 216D and Minn. R., chapter 7560 and shall require
potholing or open cutting over existing underground utilities before
excavating.
   (E)   Construction Specifications:
      1.   General: Every applicant, permit, permittee, registrant, or right-
of-way user shall:
         (a)   Prior to issuance of any permit, comply with section
8-11-6  of this chapter.
         (b)   Conduct all work in a matter to ensure the least obstruction to
the adjacent roadway and to pedestrian and vehicular traffic and shall comply
with sections
8-11-8 (A)3,
8-11-16 (C), and
8-11-21 , as applicable.
         (c)   To the greatest extent possible, provide space in the
installation area for other right-of-way users, in accordance with section
8-11-24  of this chapter.
         (d)   Maintain alignment and grade unless otherwise authorized by the
City in writing.
         (e)   Except as otherwise permitted by the City in writing, not
commence any project work until all requirements of this section, sections
8-11-8  and
8-11-9  of this chapter, and all other applicable requirements, have been met.
         (f)   Prior to commencement of any project work, including materials
delivery, notify all abutting property owners of the planned project.
Notification must include a local project contact (name, address, email
address, telephone number) for both the contractor and the facility owner.
Mailed notice must be provided 3-4 weeks in advance of the work; and door
hangers 7-10 days in advance of the work. Copies of these documents must be
provided to the City. If the use and access to the abutting property is
disrupted, the disruption shall be the least disruption as is reasonably
practicable for the project, or an alternative shall be provided.
         (g)   Not engage in any burning or disking operations or engage in the
use of chemicals to control or kill trees, brush, or other vegetation. At the
time of construction and at the times of subsequent maintenance, prior approval
must be obtained from the City permit office for the cutting and trimming of
trees within the right-of-way. Wherever trees are cut the resulting stumps
shall be removed unless otherwise provided in the Special Provisions of the
Permit. Any holes caused by stump removal shall be backfilled, leveled and all
materials associated therewith disposed of outside the right of way. The
permittee shall advise the City permit office at least 48 hours in advance of
its intent to start clearing and grubbing operations.
         (h)   Not obstruct any waterways or drainage lines and comply with the
requirements of section
8-11-16 (C) of this chapter.
         (i)   Be responsible for the maintenance and repairs of all private
driveways affected by the project work.
         (j)   Secure all excavations when unattended so as to prevent entrance
of surface drainage, people, or domestic animals. Excavations may be secured by
covering or by snow fence. Warning tape wrapped around rebar or other type of
stake is prohibited.
         (k)   For all earth-disturbing projects, perform erosion and sediment
control and turf establishment activities set forth in this section. All
project work shall be performed in compliance with all applicable City, county,
state, and federal regulations, and the regulations of any other governmental
entity having jurisdiction over the project.
            (1)   Inlet protection: When earth disturbing activities are
occurring adjacent to culverts or catch basins, inlet protection must be placed
if earth or debris could readily enter. Unattended placement of inlet
protection must be communicated to the local municipality to obtain permission
and address roadway flooding concerns.
            (2)   Work near waters: Any earth disturbing work adjacent to
waterbodies, including lakes, streams, rivers, wetlands, or constructed storm
water ponds, must employ an acceptable form of perimeter control, including but
not limited to silt fence, sediment control logs, or topsoil berms.
            (3)   Turf establishment: Wherever topsoil and turf or other
vegetation is disturbed, they shall be replaced as soon as is practicable and
no more than seven (7) days after disturbance is completed or in accordance
with a NPDES Permit, if applicable. Satisfactory maintenance for up to one year
shall occur until the turf or vegetation is established. Methods for
establishment include, but are not limited to, application of seed and blanket,
application of seed and mulch, and placement of sod. When seeding, some type of
mulch must be applied. Turf establishment is subject to the requirements of
section
8-11-13 (D) of this chapter.
            (4)   Erosion control blanket: Must be used on all steep slopes and
staked in place. If an erosion control blanket is utilized, the product must be
a “natural netting” or “no net” product that is completely biodegradable in
areas that are maintained.
            (5)   Stock piling of excavated material: Shall not occur within
the road right of way without proper traffic control. Stockpiles left
unattended must also have sediment control devices placed.
            (6)   Street sweeping: May be required as directed by City Staff.
No foreign material such as dirt, gravel or bituminous material shall be
deposited or left on the road. The roadway surface must be cleaned up daily if
material is on the road.
         (l)   For projects disturbing more than one (1) acre, obtain a General
NPDES Permit for Construction Activities through the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency. Disturbances from linear activities may be counted together as
one project, provided the above ground disturbance is continual. All City MS4
requirements must be met.
         (m)   For installation of any new facility, not interfere with any
existing facility, and shall comply with the provisions contained in section
8-11-24 (C) of this chapter.
         (n)   Traffic Management. For projects that require work within the
traveled portion of the roadway or shoulder, submit a traffic management plan
to the Director at the time of permit application. The traffic management plan
shall incorporate all necessary signs, barricades, warning devices, and
flaggers for all phases of construction and maintenance operations. The
permittee shall provide all signs, barricades, and warning devices included in
the traffic management plan, and all shall conform to the requirements of
section
8-11-16 (C) of this chapter. Except where the traffic management plan includes
a detour, the plan must be approved by the Director at least 24 hours in
advance of any project work occurring in the traveled portion of the roadway or
shoulder. If the traffic management plan includes a detour, the plan must be
approved by the Director not less than seven (7) days prior to the commencement
of the detour. Road closures are not permitted during rush hour from 6 am to 8:
30 am, or 3:30 pm to 6 pm.
         (o)   Comply with working hours between 7:00 am and 7:00 pm, Monday
through Friday. No project work is permitted on Saturdays, Sundays, or
Holidays. These limitations do not apply to emergency work.
         (p)   Require all vehicles and equipment parked or in use at the work
site to clearly display the name of the permittee or permittee’s approved
contractors.
         (q)   Locate and protect any invisible dog fences or irrigation
systems that are located in the right-of-way or public utility easements.
         (r)   Seasonal Work. Notwithstanding other provisions in this chapter,
perform seasonal work only as follows:
            (1)   Winter season requirements for working on right-of-way start
in the fall once the ambient temperature drops below freezing and continues
until the temperature warms and stays above freezing in the spring. This is
typically between November 1st and April 15th, although the actual dates may
vary based on weather conditions.
            (2)   During the winter season, no excavations will be allowed
except for emergency repairs. Temporary patches must be replaced with a
permanent hot bituminous repair in the spring. Cold mix patches are not
approved, except for emergency repairs. Emergency repairs may include water
main or gas main leaks, faulty telecommunication or power cables, or sewer line
repairs. Cold mix patches are the responsibility of the permittee and must be
monitored and maintained by the permittee or permittee’s agent 24 hours a day
until a permanent or approved temporary patch is made.
            (3)   Except for emergency repairs, no permittee shall park a
vehicle or permit it to stand upon any street, highway, alley, or public
parking area within corporate city limits for a period exceeding 72 consecutive
hours. In addition, between November 1st and April 15th of each calendar year,
no person shall park a vehicle or permit it to stand upon any street, highway,
alley, or public parking area between the hours of 2:30 am and 5:30 am or after
a two inches or greater snowfall until the streets are plowed curb to curb,
except as authorized.
            (4)   Except for emergency repairs, no construction activity,
parked vehicles or equipment will be allowed within the roadway including the
shoulder up to the curb during periods of inclement weather, or if inclement
weather is imminent. Freezing rain, sleet and snow create slippery road
conditions and poor visibility. These conditions make work zones dangerous for
both the traveling public and contractor personnel.
            (5)   For emergency repair projects, all restoration, including
turf and trail damage, must be promptly restored in the spring. All turf
restoration shall be made with sod or black dirt, seed and mulch of some type
covering the seed. The permittee shall be responsible for plantings and turf
establishment for up to one year from installation.
      2.   Aerial: In addition to any other applicable county, state, or
federal, regulations, the following standards shall apply to all longitudinal
installations in the right-of-way:
         (a)   There shall only be one single pole line in the right-of-way on
either side of the center line thereof. All aerial wire installations must
comply with the National Electric Code.
         (b)   Longitudinal installations on right-of-way shall be located in
the outer five feet of the right-of-way. At crossings of the City roadway,
poles shall be placed at a minimum of thirty feet from the shoulder lines of
the through roadbeds.
         (c)   The location of all brace poles, anchors, and anchor poles
within the limits of the right of way shall be approved by the Director.
         (d)   If a permittee receives a permit for construction on both sides
of the right-of-way, such permit shall be conditioned upon the permittee
subsequently providing joint use to other Permittee upon reasonable terms
mutually agreeable to the other permittees.
      3.   Underground: In addition to any other applicable county, state, or
federal regulations, the following standards shall apply to all underground
installations in the right-of-way:
         (a)   All crossings made in the roadbeds of the city roadways shall be
made by trenchless methods.
         (b)   When utilizing trenchless installation methods to cross an area
in which existing utilities are located, the permittee shall excavate an
observation hole to expose the utilities prior to crossing them to ensure that
the existing utilities are not damaged. When an observation hole must be
excavated in an existing pavement section or concrete, the pavement must be cut
using the coring method. The hole must be compacted to the surface and paved
with a hot mix. Saw cutting, jack hammering, or any other means are strictly
prohibited without the prior approval of the Director. If the hole must be cut
in a private driveway, the property owner must first be notified.
         (c)   The underground utilities shall be so installed to preclude any
necessity for disturbing the roadbeds to perform maintenance operations. If
applicable, the permittee must obtain an obstruction permit as required by
section
8-11-8 (A)3 of this chapter.
         (d)   Underground installations shall be accomplished without damaging
or destroying the principal root structure of trees.
         (e)   Underground facilities shall not be installed between a hydrant
and an auxiliary valve. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2025-002, 5-5-
2025)
8-11-17: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   (A)   Reasons For Denial: The City may deny a permit for failure to meet the
requirements and conditions of this chapter or if the City determines that the
denial is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use. The City may
withhold issuance of a permit until conditions of previous permit are complied
with.
   (B)   Procedural Requirements: The denial of a permit shall be made in
writing documenting the basis for denial within three (3) business days of the
decision to deny the permit. If a permit application is denied, the
telecommunications right-of-way user may cure the deficiencies identified by
the City and resubmit its application. If the telecommunications right-of-way
user resubmits the application within thirty (30) days of receiving written
notice of the denial, it may not be charged an additional filing or processing
fee. The City must approve or deny the revised application within thirty (30)
days after the revised application is submitted. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-18: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
In addition to the construction specifications set forth in section
8-11-6 (E) of this chapter, the excavation, backfilling, patching and
restoration, and all other work performed in the right-of-way shall be done in
conformance with Minn. R. 7819.1100 and 7819.5000 and other applicable local
requirements, in so far as they are not inconsistent with the Minnesota
Statutes, sections 237.162 and 237.163. Installation of service laterals shall
be performed in accordance with Minn. R., chapter 7560 and these ordinances.
Service lateral installation is further subject to those requirements and
conditions set forth by the City in the applicable permits and/or agreements
referenced in subsection
8-11-23 (B) of this chapter. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2025-002, 5-
5-2025)
8-11-19: INSPECTION:
   (A)   Notice Of Completion: When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate and “as-built”
drawings in accordance with Minn. R. 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site Inspection: Permittee shall make the work site available to the
City and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all reasonable
times during the execution of and upon completion of the work. Permittee shall
request a final inspection within five (5) business days of completion of work.
   (C)   Authority Of Director:
      1.   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
      2.   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten (10) days
after issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director
that the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented
within the required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to
section
8-11-22  of this chapter.
      3.   The cost of any action required by the City shall be paid by the
permittee. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017; amd. Ord. 2025-002, 5-5-2025)
8-11-20: WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT:
   (A)   Emergency Situations: Each registrant shall immediately notify the
Director of any event regarding its facilities that it considers to be an
emergency. The registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to
respond to the emergency. Excavators' notification to Gopher State One Call
regarding an emergency situation does not fulfill this requirement. Within two
(2) business days after the occurrence of the emergency, the registrant shall
apply for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith, and fulfill
the rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with
this chapter for the actions it took in response to the emergency.
If the City becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant's facilities,
the City will attempt to contact the local representative of each registrant
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the City may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the registrant whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-Emergency Situations: Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by this
Code, deposit with the City the fees necessary to correct any damage to the
right-of-way, and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-21: SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION:
If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the City of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known. (Ord. 017-735,
12-18-2017)
8-11-22: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
   (A)   Substantial Breach: The City reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit.
      2.   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the City or its citizens.
      3.   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit.
      4.   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a permit
extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to reasons
beyond the permittee's control.
      5.   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to section
8-11-19 of this chapter.
      6.   Failure to pay any required costs, fees, or charges billed by the
City.
   (B)   Written Notice Of Breach: If the City determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the permit, the City shall
make a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand
shall state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the
permit. A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the City, at its
discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate
and remedy the breach.
   (C)   Response To Notice Of Breach: Within twenty four (24) hours of
receiving notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the City with a
plan, acceptable to the City, that will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to
so contact the City, or permittee's failure to timely submit an acceptable
plan, or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
be cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Revocation: Revocation of a permit shall be in writing documenting the
basis for revocation. The City must notify a telecommunications right-of-way
user in writing within three (3) business days of the decision to revoke a
permit.
   (E)   Reimbursement Of City Costs: If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the City for the City's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
   (F)   Revoked Permit: If the City revokes a permit for breach of this
chapter, the permittee will not be allowed to collocate, obstruct or excavate
within the City right-of-way until the breach situation is corrected to the
satisfaction of the City. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-23: MAPPING DATA:
   (A)   Information Required: Each registrant and permittee shall provide
mapping information required by the City in accordance with Minn. R. 7819.4000
and 7819.4100. Within ninety (90) days following completion of any work
pursuant to a permit, the permittee shall provide the Director accurate maps
and drawings certifying the "as-built" location of all equipment installed,
owned, and maintained by the permittee. Such maps and drawings shall include
the horizontal and vertical location of all facilities and equipment and shall
be provided consistent with the City's electronic mapping system, when
practical or as a condition imposed by the Director. Failure to provide maps
and drawings pursuant to this subsection shall be grounds for revoking the
permit holder's registration.
   (B)   Service Laterals: All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. R. 7560.0150,
subp. 2, shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of establishing
the horizontal locations of installed service laterals and the service lateral
vertical locations in those cases where the Director reasonably requires it.
Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the Director evidence
satisfactory to the Director of the installed service lateral locations.
Compliance with this subsection, subsection
8-11-24(B) of this chapter, and with applicable Gopher State One Call law and
Minnesota Rules governing service laterals installed after Dec. 31, 2005, shall
be a condition of any City approval necessary for:
      1.   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project,
including those under Minnesota Statutes chapter 429, and
      2.   City approval under development agreements or other subdivision or
site plan approval under Minnesota Statutes chapter 462. The Director shall
reasonably determine the appropriate method of providing such information to
the City. Failure to provide prompt and accurate information on the service
laterals installed may result in the revocation of the permit issued for the
work or future permits to the offending permittee or its subcontractors. (Ord.
017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-24: LOCATION AND RELOCATION OF FACILITIES:
   (A)   Compliance: Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must
comply with the Act, with other applicable law, and with Minn. R. 7819.3100,
7819.5000, and 7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit authority
otherwise available to cities.
      1.   Undergrounding: Unless otherwise agreed in a franchise or other
agreement between the applicable right-of-way user and the City, facilities in
the right-of-way must be located or relocated and maintained underground in
accordance with this Code.
   (B)   Corridors: The City may assign a specific area within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facility that is or, pursuant to current technology, the City expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the City involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue. Any
registrant who has facilities in the right-of-way in a position at variance
with the corridors established by the City shall, no later than at the time of
the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where the facilities are
located, move the facilities to the assigned position within the right-of-way,
unless this requirement is waived by the City for good cause shown, upon
consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the facilities,
public safety, customer service needs, and hardship to the registrant.
   (C)   Limitation Of Space: To protect the health, safety, and welfare of the
public, or when necessary to protect the right-of- way and its current use, the
City shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or
additional facilities within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the
City shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and
potential users of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by
considerations of the public interest, the public's needs for the particular
utility service, the condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with
respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the
right-of- way, and future City plans for public improvements and development
projects which have been determined to be in the public interest. (Ord. 017-
735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-25: PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION:
In addition to complying with the requirements of Minnesota Statutes 216D.01 -
.09 ("One Call Excavation Notice System") before the start date of any right-
of-way excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the area
to be excavated shall mark the horizontal and vertical placement of all said
facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are less than twenty inches (20")
below a concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the
excavation contractor to establish the exact location of its facilities and the
best procedure for excavation. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-26: DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES:
When the City does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to maintain,
support, or move a registrant's facilities to protect it, the City shall notify
the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The costs
associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid within
thirty (30) days from the date of billing. Each registrant shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its
facilities damage. Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of
repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused during the
City's response to an emergency occasioned by that registrant's facilities.
(Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-27: RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION:
If the City vacates a right-of-way that contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant's rights in the vacated right-of- way are governed
by Minn. R. 7819.3200. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-28: INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY:
By registering with the City, or by accepting a permit under this chapter, a
registrant or permittee agrees to defend and indemnify the City in accordance
with the provisions of Minn. Rule 7819.1250. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-29: ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE FACILITIES:
   (A)   Discontinued Operations: A registrant who has determined to
discontinue all or a portion of its operations in the City must provide
information satisfactory to the City that the registrant's obligations for its
facilities in the right-of-way under this chapter have been lawfully assumed by
another registrant.
   (B)   Removal: Any registrant who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-
way shall remove it from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with
other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement
is waived by the City. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-30: APPEAL:
A right-of-way user that: a) has been denied registration; b) has been denied a
permit; c) has had a permit revoked; d) believes that the fees imposed are not
in conformity with Minnesota Statutes section 237.163, subd. 6; or e) disputes
a determination of the Director regarding subsection
8-11-23(B) of this chapter may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or
decision reviewed, upon written request, by the City Council. The City Council
shall act on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting,
provided the right-of-way user has submitted its appeal with sufficient time to
include the appeal as a regular agenda item. A decision by the City Council
affirming the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be in writing and
supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-31: RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS:
A permittee's rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
City to adopt and enforce general ordinances as necessary to protect the
health, safety, and welfare of the public. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
8-11-32: SEVERABILITY:
If any portion of this chapter is for any reason held invalid by any court of
competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such holding shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions thereof. Nothing in this chapter precludes the City from
requiring a franchise agreement with the applicant, as allowed by law, in
addition to requirements set forth herein. (Ord. 017-735, 12-18-2017)
FA192   8-12.txt
CHAPTER 12
CITY UTILITY SYSTEMS RATES AND BILLING
SECTION:
8-12-1: Definitions
8-12-2: Accounts
8-12-3: Billing
8-12-4: Fees And Charges Schedule
8-12-5: Delinquent Accounts
8-12-6: Other Remedies
8-12-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following capitalized terms listed in
alphabetical order shall have the following meanings:
ACCOUNT: A record of utility services used by each property and the periodic
costs for those utility services.
CITY: The city of Farmington, county of Dakota, state of Minnesota.
CITY UTILITY SYSTEM: Facilities used for providing public utility service owned
or operated by city or agency thereof, including, but not limited to, sewer,
storm sewer, water service, and solid waste service.
FEES AND CHARGES SCHEDULE: A schedule of all utility rates and charges set by
ordinance of the city or by action of the water commission. (Ord. 013-659, 3-4-
2013, eff. 4-1-2013)
8-12-2: ACCOUNTS:
All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who personally, or by
his or her authorized agent, applied for such service. The owner shall be
liable for city utility system services supplied to the property, whether he or
she is occupying the property or not, and any unpaid charges shall be a lien
upon the property. (Ord. 013-659, 3-4-2013, eff. 4-1-2013)
8-12-3: BILLING:
Water, sewer, and other utility service charges shall be billed on one bill as
applicable to each account. All charges for water, sewer, and other utility
services, shall be due as stated on the bill and considered delinquent after
the due date stated on the bill. All bills shall contain the address and
telephone number of the official in charge of billing and shall be clearly
visible and easily readable. Bills shall be mailed to the customers on or
before the fifth day of each month by billing group (see table below) of each
year and specify the water consumed and the sewer and other utility service
charges in accordance with the current fees and charges schedule set by
ordinance of the city council.
 
Billing Group (Designated Winter Quarter In
Italics)
   I and II                              January, April, July, October
   III                                   February, May, August, November
   IV                                    March, June, September, December
 
(Ord. 015-710, 12-7-2015)
8-12-4: FEES AND CHARGES SCHEDULE:
   (A)   The fees and charges schedule shall be adopted annually by ordinance
of the city council. The ordinance shall include fees established by the water
commission in accordance with title 2, chapter 5 of this code.
   (B)   The city administrator or finance director shall establish the number
of certification cycles per year. At least one certification cycle will be
timed each year to coincide with Dakota County's requirements for certification
to the following year's taxes. Additional certification cutoff dates and
certification cycles may be set by the administrator or director based on
calendar, amount delinquent or other bases. All city utility accounts, unless
exempt for other legal reason, which have been billed a delinquent bill and
remain unpaid as of the certification cutoff date shall have the balance on the
account included in a preliminary certification list. (Ord. 015-710, 12-7-2015;
amd. Ord. 2025-004, 7-21-2025)
8-12-5: DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS:
   (A)   Penalties: A late payment penalty as set out in the fees and charges
schedule shall be assessed on all accounts with a past due balance.
   (B)   Certification For Collection With Taxes: Unpaid charges on utility
accounts shall not be certified to the county auditor until notice and an
opportunity for a hearing have been provided to the owner of the premises
involved. The notice shall be sent by first class mail and shall state that if
payment is not made before the date for certification, the entire amount unpaid
plus certification fees will be certified to the county auditor for collection
as other taxes are collected. The notice shall also state that the owner may,
before such certification date, attend a hearing on the matter to object to
certification of unpaid utility charges.
   (C)   Payment: The owner of the property shall have the option of paying the
balance due on the account until the date and time specified on the notice of
the certification hearing. After the date and time specified on the notice of
certification hearing, payments will still be accepted but will include
certification fees as established in the fees and charges schedule.
   (D)   Hearing: A hearing shall be held on the matter by the city council.
Property owners with unpaid utility charges shall have the opportunity to
object to the certification of unpaid charges to be collected as taxes are
collected. If, after the hearing, the city council finds that the amounts
claimed as delinquent are actually due and unpaid and that there is no legal
reason why the unpaid charges should not be certified for collection with taxes
in accordance with this chapter, the city may certify the unpaid charges to the
county auditor for collection as other taxes are collected.
   (E)   Options After Hearing: For each objected certification sustained, the
property owner shall have the following options after the hearing:
      1.   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll within
five (5) business days of the hearing date, but without additional
certification fees as established in the fees and charges schedule.
      2.   To pay the certified charges as billed to them by Dakota County on
their property tax statement with a collection term of one year.
   (F)   Collection: Six (6) business days after the hearing, the certified
roll, minus any payments, shall be delivered to Dakota County for collection as
other taxes are collected with interest at the rate set in the adopted rate
schedule, accrued beginning on the date of the public hearing through December
31 of the following year and certification fees as provided for in the fees and
charges schedule. (Ord. 013-659, 3-4-2013, eff. 4-1-2013)
8-12-6: OTHER REMEDIES:
In addition to any procedures or penalties provided for in this chapter if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this chapter,
the council or any city official designated by it may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to procure payment and/or enforce the
provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 013-659, 3-4-2013, eff. 4-1-2013)
fa192   9t.txt
TITLE 9
TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
9-1-1: State Highway Traffic Regulations
9-1-2: Definitions
9-1-3: Parking and Stopping
9-1-4: Parking Prohibited
9-1-4-1: Parking Restrictions For City-Owned Parking Lot
9-1-5: Parallel Parking
9-1-6: Diagonal Parking
9-1-7: Double Parking
9-1-8: Emergency Parking
9-1-9: Parking Limitations
9-1-10: Disabled Vehicles
9-1-11: Snow Removal And Street Maintenance Parking Restrictions
9-1-12: Winter Parking And Temporary Permits
9-1-13: Removal of Vehicles Or Trailers
9-1-14: Speed in Alleys
9-1-15: Erratic Driving
9-1-16: Driver's License Regulations
9-1-17: Seasonal Load Restrictions; Street
9-1-18: Penalties
9-1-1: STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
   (A)   The provisions of chapter 169 of Minnesota Statutes Annotated, as
amended, known as "The Highway Traffic Regulation Act", are hereby adopted by
reference for the regulation of traffic upon the streets and highways of the
City, insofar as the provisions thereof may be applicable and insofar as the
same do not conflict with the subsequent provisions of this Code.
   (B)   Responsible Party: In any prosecution charging a violation of the
below provisions, the presence of a vehicle or trailer of any kind that is
stopped, standing, or parked in violation of the below provisions, shall be
prima facie evidence that a registered owner committed or authorized the
commission of such violation. (Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this Title, the words and phrases contained in Minnesota
Statutes, 2019, chapter 169.011, as may be amended from time to time, shall
have the meaning given by that section, except as follows:
   (A)   "Street or Highway" means the entire width between the boundary lines
of any way or place when any part thereof is open to the use of the public as a
matter of right, for the purpose of vehicular traffic, and shall include any
shopping center parking lot or roadway, or other place used for vehicular
parking for or access to any business establishment.
   (B)   "Private Road or Driveway" means every way or place in private
ownership and used for vehicular traffic by the owner and those having express
or implied permission from the owner, but not by other persons, except any
shopping center parking lot or roadway, or other place used for vehicular
parking for or access to any business establishment. (Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-3: PARKING AND STOPPING:
It shall be unlawful for the owner and/or driver of a motor vehicle or a
trailer of any kind to stop, stand, or park the said vehicle or trailer in any
of the following places, except when necessary to avoid conflict with other
traffic or in compliance with the directions of a peace officer or traffic
control device:
   (A)   On a sidewalk or boulevard between sidewalk and roadway.
   (B)   On a cross walk.
   (C)   Within an intersection.
   (D)   Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at any intersection.
   (E)   Within ten feet (10') of a fire hydrant.
   (F)   Within thirty feet (30') of any arterial stop sign or sign indicating
the direction for travel.
   (G)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street or highway.
   (H)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing, or
parking.
   (I)   In any manner on any street or highway so as to interfere with or
interrupt the passage of other vehicles.
   (J)   Along the curb adjacent to any posted school property from eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. to four o'clock (4:00) P.M. on days when school is in
session.
   (K)   In front of a public or private driveway.
   (L)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic. (Ord. 083-146, 5-16-1983;
Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-4: PARKING PROHIBITED:
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle or a trailer of any kind or permit said
vehicle or trailer to stand upon any street, highway or public alley within the
city in any place where official signs prohibit parking or alongside any
curbing officially painted yellow.
   (B)   No person shall, for camping or recreational purposes, leave or park a
house or camping or recreational trailer on any public street, highway or alley
within the city.
   (C)   No person shall, for the purposes of displaying it for sale, leave or
park a vehicle on any public street, highway or alley within the city.
   (D)   No person shall park a vehicle in any public alley except that such
alley parking shall be permitted only for the purpose of loading or unloading
said vehicle and only in event that said parking does not otherwise obstruct
traffic or violate any of the other provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00)
P.M., Sundays and legal holidays excepted, no person shall park a vehicle or a
trailer of any kind for a period longer than two (2) consecutive hours at any
place within the city where official signs provide for "Two Hour Parking".
   (F)   Between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M., no
person shall park any vehicle in excess of seven thousand (7,000) pounds GVW or
any trailer on any city street except that the owner of a vehicle under fifteen
thousand (15,000) pounds GVW may apply to the Farmington police department for
a temporary parking permit, not to exceed three (3) consecutive days or six (6)
days annually. Such permit to be issued only with the written consent of the
property owner(s) directly adjacent to the parked vehicle. No property owner
may authorize more than three (3) permits per calendar year. (Ord. 083-146, 5-
16-1983; Ord. 092-270, 7-6-1992; Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-4-1: PARKING RESTRICTIONS FOR CITY-OWNED PARKING LOT:
No person shall park a vehicle or a trailer of any kind or permit said vehicle
or trailer to stand upon any city-owned parking lot for a period of time
exceeding twenty-four (24) consecutive hours where official signs are posted.
(Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-5: PARALLEL PARKING:
Except as hereinafter provided in section
9-1-6 of this chapter, every vehicle or trailer of any kind parked on any
street with a curb, shall be parked parallel thereto and with the right hand
wheels of such vehicle or trailer of any kind within twelve inches (12") of the
curb. Every vehicle or trailer of any kind parked upon any street without a
curb shall be parked to the right of the main traveled portion of said street
and parallel thereto and in such manner as not to interfere with the free flow
of traffic. (Ord. 083-146, 5-16-1983; Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-6: DIAGONAL PARKING:
Diagonal parking shall be permitted upon such streets or parts of streets where
diagonal parking is officially indicated by painted stripes or other
appropriate signs or markings.
Every vehicle or trailer of any kind parked in any area in which diagonal
parking is permitted shall be parked at an angle of thirty five degrees (35°)
from parallel and with the right front wheel of said vehicle or trailer against
the curb; and every such vehicle or trailer shall be parked between painted
markings on the street or curb.
(Ord. 083-146, 5-16-1983; Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-7: DOUBLE PARKING:
No person shall park a vehicle or trailer of any kind on the roadway side of
any vehicle parked at the curb or edge of a street unless under the control of
a licensed and qualified driver present in said vehicle or trailer and then
only in the event that the same does not otherwise obstruct traffic or violate
any other provisions of this chapter. This provision shall not prohibit the
double parking of trucks, buses and other commercial vehicles for the purpose
of loading or unloading or otherwise having access to any property upon which
signs are posted permitting such double parking, where such access cannot be
conveniently secured from an alley or other side street, and such double
parking shall be permitted for a period of not more than fifteen (15)
consecutive minutes and only in the event that the same does not otherwise
obstruct traffic or violate any other provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 083-
146, 5-16-1983; Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-8: EMERGENCY PARKING:
No provision of this chapter shall prohibit the parking of a vehicle or trailer
of any kind for such time as is reasonably required by any emergency. (Ord.
083-146, 5-16-1983; Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-9: PARKING LIMITATIONS:
No person shall park a vehicle or a trailer of any kind or permit a vehicle or
a trailer of any kind to stand upon any street, highway, alley or public
parking within the corporate city limits for a period of time exceeding seventy
two (72) consecutive hours. (Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-10: DISABLED VEHICLES:
Any vehicle or trailer of any kind that is disabled upon any street or public
alley shall be moved to a place of safety and in the event of neglect or
failure on the part of the owner or operator thereof so to do, or in the case
of any motor vehicle or trailer of any kind left unattended or abandoned on any
street, highway or alley and not properly parked, any police officer of the
city is authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle or trailer to a
convenient garage or other place of safekeeping. (Ord. 083-146, 5-16-1983; Ord.
021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-11: SNOW REMOVAL AND STREET MAINTENANCE PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
   (A)   During snow removal operations or street maintenance operations of the
city, no vehicle may be parked so as to obstruct or hinder the plowing or
removal of snow and/or street maintenance operations. In the event that any
vehicle is so parked as to interfere, obstruct or hinder said operations, any
police officer of the city is authorized to provide for the moving or removal
of said vehicle.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle or a trailer of any kind or permit a
vehicle or trailer of any kind to stand upon any street, highway, alley, or
public parking after a two inch (2") or greater snowfall until the streets are
plowed curb to curb.
   (C)   Signs To Be Posted: The director of public works is authorized to post
"No Parking" signs for snow removal along city streets where snow removal
operations require the use of the entire width of the street by snow plowing
and removing equipment. Such signs shall be posted at frequent distance
intervals at least four (4) hours prior to the time when snow removal
commences, and such signs shall be removed promptly after completion of snow
removal operation. Snow removal shall be done on any street so posted as soon
as possible following a lapse of four (4) hours after posting the signs. It
shall be unlawful for any person other than an authorized representative of the
public works department or police department of the city to remove any "No
Parking" signs. (Ord. 091-253, 8-5-1991; Ord. 092-261, 1-6-1992; Ord. 021-764,
11-1-2021)
9-1-12: WINTER PARKING AND TEMPORARY PERMITS:
The city, in recognition of the need to provide orderly and unobstructed snow
removal from city streets, hereby establishes the following conditions and
restrictions for winter parking on city streets:
   (A)   Between November 1 and April 15 of each calendar year, no person shall
park a vehicle or permit it to stand upon any street, highway, alley, or public
parking between the hours of two thirty o'clock (2:30) A.M. and five thirty
o'clock (5:30) A.M. except as specifically permitted by posted signs.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle or permit it to stand upon any street,
highway, alley, or public parking after a two inch (2") or greater snowfall
until the streets are plowed curb to curb except as authorized in subsection
9-1-12(D) of this chapter.
   (C)   Applicability: Notwithstanding any provisions of this section, all
specific parking prohibitions or restrictions authorized by the city council
either by ordinance or resolution shall apply in full force and effect.
   (D)   Temporary Permits: Upon application by a property owner or tenant, the
police chief, or his or her designee, may issue temporary parking permits that
allow on street parking adjacent to the permittee's residence during periods
when on street parking is otherwise prohibited. The permit shall not allow
parking on the street during and after any snowfall event until the street is
plowed to its full width. No permit shall be issued to park on streets or other
public parking areas posted as "No Parking" pursuant to this section. Permits
shall be issued only to property owners or tenants who do not have adequate off
street parking available to accommodate special events or unique circumstances
of limited duration. (Ord. 000-451, 4-3-2000; Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-13: REMOVAL OF VEHICLES OR TRAILERS:
Whenever any police officer finds a motor vehicle or a trailer of any kind has
been parked or stopped in violation of any regulation contained in the
Farmington City Code, such officer is hereby authorized to move or tow such
vehicle or trailer of any kind without notice to the owner, provide for the
removal of such vehicle or trailer of any kind and the impounding of the same,
or require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle or trailer of
any kind to move the same. Any such removal and/or impounding of the said
vehicle or trailer of any kind shall be at the expense of the owner. (Ord. 083-
146, 5-16-1983; Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-14: SPEED IN ALLEYS:
No vehicle shall be driven or operated in any public alley in the City at a
speed in excess of ten (10) miles per hour. (Ord. 083-146, 5-16-1983; Ord. 021-
764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-15: ERRATIC DRIVING:
It is unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle within the City, in
such a manner as to intentionally:
   (A)   Cause a motor vehicle unnecessarily to sway or turn abruptly.
   (B)   Cause a motor vehicle unnecessarily to skid or slide upon acceleration
or deceleration.
   (C)   Create or cause unnecessary tire squeal or engine noise.
   (D)   Race or simulate racing with any other motor vehicle.
Any person violating this Section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 083-
146, 5-16-1983; Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-16: DRIVER'S LICENSE REGULATIONS:
The provisions of Minnesota Statutes, sections 171.22, 171.23, 171.24, as
amended, are hereby adopted by reference for use by the City, insofar as the
provisions thereof may be applicable and insofar as the same do not conflict
with other provisions of this Code. (Ord. 083-146, 5-16-1983; Ord. 021-764, 11-
1-2021)
9-1-17: SEASONAL LOAD RESTRICTIONS; STREET:
In accordance with Minnesota Statute section 169.87, subdivision 1, it shall be
illegal to operate on any street within the City any vehicle which exceeds the
allowable weight as is determined by the Council. During the period between
March 20 and May 15, the Council shall cause to have erected appropriate signs
clearly indicating the effective maximum weight restrictions. Any person
violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 083-146, 5-16-
1983; Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
9-1-18: PENALTIES:
Except as otherwise stated in this chapter, any person violating any provision
of this chapter shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor, which is punishable by
a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00). If a minimum fine or
imprisonment is prescribed by the State Highway Traffic Act for an offense, or
if such offense be classified as a petty misdemeanor, such penalty and/or
classification shall apply to a person convicted of the same offense under this
chapter. (Ord. 083-146, 5-16-1983; Ord. 021-764, 11-1-2021)
CHAPTER 2
TRAFFIC SIGNAL PRE-EMPTION SYSTEM
SECTION:
9-2-1: Purpose
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: Conditions For Using The TSPS
9-2-4: Violations
9-2-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose for using the Traffic Signal Pre-Emption System (TSPS) is to allow
emergency services in a safer and more timely manner by temporarily controlling
motorized vehicle traffic flow at signalized intersections. The City Council
deems it advisable to formulate policies and procedures for the use of the TSPS
which are to be followed by drivers of all emergency vehicles equipped with
TSPS emitters so that both pedestrians and drivers of motorized vehicles have
adequate warning that emergency vehicles are changing normal traffic control
timing at signalized intersections. (Ord. 095-365, 12-18-1995)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings ascribed
to them:
EMERGENCY RESPONSE: A vehicle equipped and operating in accordance with
Minnesota Statutes displaying a red/blue light and emitting an audible siren.
EMERGENCY VEHICLE: A vehicle equipped and identified according to law and
operated by the Farmington Police and/or Fire Departments, and ALF Ambulance or
any other vehicle so designated by State statute.
TRAFFIC SIGNAL PRE-EMPTION SYSTEM: A traffic control system designed for use by
emergency vehicles to improve traffic movement by temporarily controlling
signalized intersections. The TSPS is comprised of four (4) separate
components: an emitter, a detector, an indicator, and a phase selector. The
emitter (a high intensity light source) is attached to the emergency vehicle
and functions like a strobe light, pulsating at a frequency in excess of ten
(10) beats per second. As an emergency vehicle approaches the intersection,
this pulsating light is received by a detector that is located at or near the
traffic signal. The detector relays the coded message to the phase selector,
located in the traffic light control box, which then either holds the existing
green light in favor of the approaching emergency vehicle or accelerates the
normal cycle of a signal change to provide green by the time the vehicle
reaches the intersection. The indicator is a light source located near the
detector which is directed toward the oncoming emergency vehicle to indicate to
the driver whether or not the traffic light has been pre-empted in their favor.
(Ord. 095-365, 12-18-1995)
9-2-3: CONDITIONS FOR USING THE TSPS:
   (A)   Fire Department: City owned Fire Department vehicles shall use the
TSPS while on emergency responses only. Unless otherwise provided for herein,
all other use by the Department is prohibited. Conditions for the use of TSPS
hereby become a part of the Fire Department standard operating procedures.
   (B)   Police Department: City owned Police Department vehicles shall use the
TSPS while on emergency responses only. Unless otherwise provided for herein,
all other use by the Department is prohibited. Conditions for the use of TSPS
hereby become a part of the Police Department standard operating procedures.
   (C)   ALF Ambulance: This service is provided through a joint powers
agreement between the cities of Apple Valley, Lakeville and Farmington. ALF
vehicles shall use the TSPS while on emergency responses only. Unless otherwise
provided for herein, all other use by ALF is prohibited. Conditions for the use
of TSPS hereby become a part of the ALF standard operating procedures.
   (D)   City Or County Maintenance Personnel: Minnesota Department of
Transportation, Dakota County or City of Farmington maintenance personnel, or
their contractors under written agreement, may activate the TSPS only when
testing or repairing the system. Sirens and flashing red lights need not be
used except when the test vehicle must exceed the posted speed limits. In such
instances, said test must be pre-approved and coordinated through the Police
Chief.
   (E)   Emergency Vehicles Not Owned Or Operated By The City Of Farmington:
The use of TSPS within the City by non-City emergency vehicles is allowed if
said emergency vehicle is one which is recognized by the city in which it is
based. The participating organization or unit of government shall follow all
procedures prescribed by the City in utilizing the TSPS.
   (F)   Funeral Escorts:   TSPS shall not be used without emergency lights and
sirens activated unless pre-approved by the Police Chief. Funeral escort
services provided by the City's Police Department shall be an allowable use of
the TSPS when pre- approved by the Police Chief.
   (G)   Prohibited Activation: Unless specifically approved herein, it shall
be unlawful for any person to activate the TSPS in Farmington by any means
whatsoever. This clause specifically prohibits the installation of TSPS
emitters on any vehicle not identified in this Section. (Ord. 095-365, 12-18-
1995)
9-2-4: VIOLATIONS:
Violation of this Section shall be a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as set
forth by City Code. Each violation of this Section shall be considered a
separate offense, punishable as indicated. (Ord. 095-365, 12-18-1995)
FA192   10-T.TXT
TITLE 10
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
INTRODUCTION; TITLE; INTENT
SECTION:
10-1-1: Short Title
10-1-2: Intent
10-1-3: Supremacy
10-1-4: Compliance
10-1-5: Validity
10-1-6: Repealer
10-1-7: Effective Date
10-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known, cited and referred to as the FARMINGTON ZONING
ORDINANCE, except as referred to herein, where it shall be known as this title.
(Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-1-2: INTENT:
   (A)   Protect and promote the public health, safety and general welfare of
the community.
   (B)   Classify properties into zones and districts reflecting their
suitability for particular uses as outlined generally in the comprehensive
plan.
   (C)   Provide for sequential planned development that will allow the
efficient and orderly expansion of utility systems without premature
urbanization of existing undeveloped land.
   (D)   Regulate the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of buildings, structures and land.
   (E)   Protect against fire, explosion, noxious fumes, offensive noise,
vibration, dust, odor, heat, glare and other pollution and hazards in the
interest of the public health, comfort and general welfare.
   (F)   Conserve natural resources and maintain high standards of
environmental quality.
   (G)   Preserve and protect the capacity of floodplains and natural ponding
areas to carry, hold and discharge excess surface water.
   (H)   Ensure adequate light, air, privacy and convenience of access to
property.
   (I)   Provide for the administration of this title and define the powers and
duties of the various administrative officers and bodies.
   (J)   Provide for the enforcement of this title and prescribe penalties for
the violation of its provisions or any future amendments. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-
2002)
10-1-3: SUPREMACY:
The provisions of this title are the minimum requirements for promoting and
protecting the public health, safety and general welfare. When this title
imposes greater restrictions than those proposed by other statute, ordinance or
regulation, the provisions of this title shall be controlling. (Ord. 002-469,
2-19-2002)
10-1-4: COMPLIANCE:
No structure shall be located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved,
converted or enlarged; nor shall any structure or land be used or be designed
to be used, except in full compliance with all provisions of this title and
after the lawful issuance of all required permits and certificates. (Ord. 002-
469, 2-19-2002)
10-1-5: VALIDITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this title is for any
reason found to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the validity of the
remaining portions of this title. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-1-6: REPEALER:
Upon the effective date hereof, all previous provisions and sections contained
in this title and adopted prior to the effective date hereof are hereby
repealed. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-1-7: EFFECTIVE DATE:
This title shall be in full force and effect from its passage and publication
according to law. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
FA192   10-2.txt
CHAPTER 2
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Zoning Definitions
10-2-1: ZONING DEFINITIONS:
Terms not defined in this chapter shall have the meanings customarily assigned
to them as a matter of usage. The defined words which follow shall be
interpreted accordingly:
A-FRAME SIGN: A portable two (2) sided sign, often commonly referred to as a
sandwich board sign, at two feet (2') in width and three feet (3') in height.
ACCESSORY APARTMENT: A dwelling unit which is subordinate to a permitted
principal one-family residence in terms of size, location and appearance and
located on the same lot therewith.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE: A structure on the same lot with, and of a nature
customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal structure including,
but not limited to, an attached or detached garage, storage shed or gazebo.
ACCESSORY USE: Any use customarily incidental and subordinate to the principal
structure or use and located on the same lot.
AGRICULTURE; AGRICULTURAL: The production of livestock, dairy animals, dairy
products, poultry or poultry products, furbearing animals, horticultural or
nursery stock, fruit, vegetables, forage, grains, timber, trees, or bees and
apiary products.
AGRICULTURE SERVICES: A use primarily engaged in the repair or rental of farm
tools and implements, feed, grain, tack, animal care products and farm
supplies. This definition excludes the sale of large implements such as
tractors and combines, but includes farm machinery repair services that are
accessory to the principal use.
ANIMAL CLINIC: An establishment where animals are treated and/or hospitalized
by veterinarians. An establishment for the care, observation and treatment of
small animals, including household pets.
ANIMATED SIGN: Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or create a special effect or scene.
ANTENNA: Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
transmitting electromagnetic waves, including, but not limited to, directional
antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes, satellite dishes, and
omnidirectional antennas, such as whip antennas.
AREA IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A freestanding sign which identifies the name of a
neighborhood, a residential subdivision, a multiple residential complex of
three (3) or more structures of ten (10) or more units, a shopping center
consisting of three (3) or more separate structures, an industrial area
consisting of three (3) or more structures or any combination of the above.
AUCTION HOUSE: A place of business that conducts auctions on site.
AUTO REPAIR, MAJOR: General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines,
motor vehicles or trailers, including bodywork, framework, welding and major
painting service.
AUTO REPAIR, MINOR: The replacement of any part or repair of any part which
does not require removal of the engine head or pan, engine transmission or
differential; incidental body or fender work, minor painting and upholstering
service; window tinting and service; or minor automotive service including
changing oil and transmission fluid.
AUTO SALES: The use of any building or land area for the display and sale of
new or used automobiles, trucks, vans, or recreational vehicles including any
major or minor automobile repair or service uses conducted as an accessory use.
AVERAGE BUFFER WIDTH: The average width of a buffer area within a single
development lot or phase.
AWNING: A canopy, hood, cover, or other fabric, plastic, or structural
protective cover over a door, entrance, window, or outdoor service area
intended for protection from the weather or as a decorative embellishment.
BANNER: Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is mounted to a
pole or a building at one or more edges and intended to be displayed for a
limited period of time. National flags, state or municipal flags, or the
official flag of any institution or business shall not be considered banners.
BASEMENT: This includes any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having
its floor below ground level on all four (4) sides, regardless of the depth of
excavation below ground level.
BEACONS: Any light with one or more beams, capable of being directed in any
direction or directions or capable of being revolved automatically.
BED AND BREAKFAST: A structure used as a lodging establishment where a
guestroom or guestrooms are rented on a nightly basis and in which only
breakfast is included as part of the basic compensation.
BED AND BREAKFAST UNIT: A room or group of rooms forming a single habitable
unit used or intended to be used for living and sleeping, but not for cooking
or eating purposes.
BENCH SIGN: A sign attached to or painted on a bench for seating.
BILLBOARD: A sign that directs attention to a business, commodity, service, or
entertainment conducted, sold or offered at a location other than the premises
on which the sign is located.
BOARD: The board of adjustment established by this title.
BOATHOUSE: A structure designed and used solely for the storage of boats or
boating equipment.
BOULEVARD TREE ROUTE: City designated route that includes major collector
streets on the city's thoroughfare plan that are allowed to be planted with
boulevard trees within the right of way.
BOULEVARD TREES: Trees on land lying between the edge of curb and the property
line within the city or located in new developments on city approved boulevard
tree routes.
BREWERY: A facility that produces beer, ale or other beverages made from malt
by fermentation and containing not less than one- half of one percent alcohol
by volume.
BREWERY, SMALL: A brewery that produces not more than twenty thousand (20,000)
barrels of malt liquor in a calendar year as regulated by Minnesota statutes,
as may be amended.
BREWPUB: A small brewery with a restaurant use operated on the same premises as
the brewery.
BUFFER AREA: An undisturbed or reestablished vegetated area adjacent to a
wetland that is an integral part of protecting the wetland ecosystem through
filtering pollutants and providing adjacent habitat.
BUILDABLE AREA: The space remaining on a lot after the minimum setback and open
space requirements of this title have been met.
BUILDING: Any structure intended for the shelter, support or enclosure of
persons, animals or property of any kind.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The maximum possible distance measured adjacent to the
building foundation at right angles from the natural undisturbed ground slope
and natural grade to the highest possible point of a structure. The exceptions
are chimneys, flues, vents or similar structures that may extend two feet (2')
above the specified maximum height limit.
BUILDING LINE: A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high water level
at the required setback, beyond which a structure may not extend toward the
water.
BUILDING SETBACK: The distance between the building line and the property line
or, in the case of a shore land yard, the ordinary high water level, or in the
case of a lot containing all or a portion of a wetland, the nearest edge of the
wetland buffer area. Building setbacks may also be measured from the street
edge or back of curb in instances where the yard space has a separate or common
ownership from the building or unit. This is typical practice with multi-family
units such as townhomes.
BUS TERMINAL: Any structure or land devoted principally to the servicing,
fueling, repair, storage, or leasing of passenger buses.
CANNABIS CULTIVATION: A use involving the licensed growing and harvesting of
cannabis.
CANNABIS OR HEMP MANUFACTURING: An establishment or use of land which involves
the compounding, processing, packaging, wholesaling, testing, treatment,
transportation, or delivery of cannabis or hemp products.
CANNABIS RETAIL: A licensed establishment where cannabis flowers, immature
cannabis plants and seedlings, and related products as allowed by law are sold
to individual consumers who are at least twenty one (21) years of age.
CANOPY TREES: Those species of deciduous trees with leaves that typically drop
in the fall, that reach a height of thirty feet (30') to seventy feet (70') or
taller at maturity and which are usually grown with lower limbs removed to
preserve visibility.
CANOPY/WALKWAY: A permanent rooflike structure or cover which projects from the
wall of a building, or projects over any entrance of a walkway. A marquee is
not a canopy.
CAR WASH: Any building or portion thereof used for the cleaning or washing of
motor vehicles.
CEMETERY: A parcel or tract of land used for the burial of the dead including
columbaria, crematoriums, mausoleums and mortuaries when operated within the
boundaries of such cemetery.
CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY: A certificate issued by the building inspector for
any structure built or change of use within any structure before it is
occupied.
CHILD DAYCARE CENTER, COMMERCIAL: A facility other than a private residence,
receiving one or more minor children for regular shelter, care, activity and
supervision where the parents or guardians are not immediately available to the
child.
CITY BOULEVARD: Area between property lines on either side of all streets,
avenues, or ways within the city.
CLINIC: Any establishment where human patients are examined and treated by
doctors or dentists but not hospitalized overnight. A facility providing
dental, medical, psychiatric, or surgical service for sick or injured persons
exclusively on an outpatient basis, including emergency treatment, diagnostic
services, training, administration, and services.
CLUB: Any establishment operated for social, recreational or educational
purposes but open only to members and guests and not to the general public.
CLUSTER PLANTINGS: A grouping of three (3) or more plants installed in close
proximity to one another.
COCKTAIL ROOM: An area for the on-sale consumption of distilled spirits on the
premises of or abutting a microdistillery and in common ownership to the
producer, which may include sales of beverages produced and packaged at the
microdistillery for off premises consumption as may be allowed by Minnesota
statutes, as may be amended.
COFFEE SHOP: A small restaurant and/or cafe where assorted drinks and food
items are sold to the general retail public.
COMMERCIAL RECREATION, INDOOR: A commercial recreational use available to the
general public that is completely contained within a building.
COMMERCIAL RECREATION, OUTDOOR: A commercial recreational use available to the
general public that is outside a building.
COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL USES: The provision of entertainment, games of skill or
lessons to the general public for a fee, including, but not limited to, dance
and karate studios, golf driving range, archery, and miniature golf.
COMMERCIAL SERVICES: Retail establishments that primarily render services
rather than goods. Such services may include, but not be limited to, copy
shops, printing services, package and postal service, photo processing,
janitorial services and similar services.
COMMERCIAL VEHICLE: Any vehicle used for commercial purposes including, but not
limited to: trailers, motorized wheeled or tracked vehicles or vehicles
displaying company signage, company logos, commercial equipment, fixtures or
tools.
   (A)   Class I: Vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of more
than eighteen thousand (18,000) pounds, or any of the following types of
vehicles regardless of weight, including, but not limited to: semitrailers, the
tractor portion of semitrucks, garbage trucks, tank trucks, dump trucks,
flatbed trucks, tow trucks, cattle trucks, coach buses or school buses designed
to carry more than twenty (20) persons or any similar vehicle.
   (B)   Class II: All vehicles other than class I commercial vehicles
including pickup trucks, vans, trailers and school buses designed to carry
twenty (20) persons or less.
COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES: Licensed commercial wireless
telecommunication services, including cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio
(ESMR), pager, and similar services that are marketed to the general public.
COMMISSIONER: The commissioner of the department of natural resources.
COMMUNITY SOLAR GARDEN: A solar electric array with multiple subscribers
connected to the utility grid and where subscribers may purchase a portion of
the power produced by the array and receive a credit on their electric bill.
Utility customers within the community solar garden service area can consist
of, but not be limited to, residences, businesses, local units of government,
nonprofits and faith based organizations.
CONDITIONAL USE: A listed specific type of structure or land use that may be
allowed but only after review and with appropriate conditions or restrictions
as provided in the zoning ordinance.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit issued by the planning commission in
accordance with procedures specified in this title as a flexibility device to
enable the commission to assign dimensions to a proposed use or the conditions
surrounding it after consideration of adjacent areas and their functions and
the special problems which the proposed use presents.
CONDOMINIUM: Real estate, portions of which are designated for separate
ownership and the remainder of which is designated for common ownership solely
by the owners of those portions.
CONDOMINIUM UNIT: A portion of a condominium, whether or not contained solely
or partially within a building, designated for separate ownership, the
boundaries of which are described pursuant to Minnesota Statutes Annotated
section 515A.2-110.
CONSTRUCTION SIGN: A sign placed at a construction site identifying the project
or the name of the architect, engineer, contractor, financier or other involved
parties.
CONVENIENCE STORE, WITH GAS: A small retail establishment that sells groceries,
household items and gasoline intended for the convenience of the neighborhood,
but does not include automotive service stations or vehicle repair.
CONVENIENCE STORE, WITHOUT GAS: A small retail establishment that sells
groceries and household items intended for the convenience of the neighborhood,
but does not include gas pumps, automotive service stations or vehicle repair.
CULTURAL AND EDUCATIONAL USES: Any person(s), partnership, association,
corporation or other group whose activities are conducted for civic, cultural,
educational or humanitarian motives and/or for the benefits of others. Such
uses may include, but are not limited to, schools, museums, art galleries,
libraries or cultural or historic centers.
DATA CENTER: A centralized repository, either physical or virtual, for the
storage, management, and dissemination of data and information pertaining to a
business or businesses.
DAYCARE FACILITY, IN HOME: A single-family dwelling in which a permanent
occupant of the dwelling provides for the care of children or adults. Those
receiving care are not all related to the occupant or to each other and are not
the legal wards or foster children of the attendant adult. For the purpose of
this title, such activities shall meet all requirements of home occupations.
The home must meet all state standards for registration and inspections and not
exceed state limits for number of clients.
DECIDUOUS TREES: Those trees which drop all of their leaves annually, such as
ash, maple, oak, linden, etc.
DECK: A horizontal, unenclosed platform with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises and other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site and at any point extending more than three feet (3')
aboveground.
DENSITY, NET: The number of dwelling units per acre excluding arterial road
rights of way, wetlands, water features and other publicly dedicated
improvements such as parks and/or stormwater ponds.
DENTAL LABORATORY: A facility that produces dental restorations as requested by
a licensed dentist. Dental laboratories may produce dentures, crowns, or other
dental restorations such as implant crowns.
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT SIGN: A temporary sign located on the site of a new
development, listing owners, developers, builders and similar identifying
information.
DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS: A minimum/maximum setback yard requirement or
structure height or size established in this code.
DISTILLERY: A facility that produces ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl,
spirits of wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or other distilled spirits,
including all dilutions and mixtures thereof for nonindustrial use.
DISTRICT: A specific zoning district as defined in the city zoning ordinance.
DRAINAGEWAY: (A) Any natural, altered or artificial watercourse which has
definable beds and banks capable of conducting confined runoff from adjacent
lands. Watercourse beds not clearly defined shall be delineated to include that
area which would be inundated by runoff resulting from a twenty four (24) hour
rainfall having a recurrence interval of once in five (5) years.
   (B)   An altered watercourse is that which has been affected by manmade
changes in straightening, deepening, narrowing, or widening the original
channel.
   (C)   An artificial watercourse is that which has been artificially
constructed by man where there was no previous natural watercourse. The limits
of the watercourse bed are confined to that area, which would be inundated by
runoff resulting from a twenty four (24) hour rainfall having a recurrence
interval of once in five (5) years.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy as dwelling units, not including hotels, motels, boarding
or lodging houses.
DWELLING, APARTMENT: A building or group of buildings on one lot containing
five (5) or more separate dwelling units, having separate or joint entrances,
and including apartments and condominiums.
DWELLING, APARTMENT/COMMERCIAL: A building designed for one (1) or more
dwelling units as well as non-residential uses that are permitted in the zoning
district to be located on the ground story, with all dwelling units sharing a
joint entrance from the outside.
DWELLING, SINGLE-UNIT: A detached housing unit containing a single principal
dwelling unit.
DWELLING SITE: A designated location for residential use by one or more persons
using temporary or movable shelter, including camping and recreational vehicle
sites.
DWELLING, THREE- TO FOUR-UNIT (TRIPLEX, QUAD): A building containing three (3)
or four (4) principal dwelling units on the same lot.
DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE: Single attached units in structures housing three (3) or
more contiguous dwellings, sharing a common wall, each having separate front
and rear entrances; the structures are a row-type house; not to exceed sixteen
(16) units in each structure.
DWELLING, TWIN HOME: A building containing two (2) attached dwelling units,
side by side, that share common walls at the lot line and that are on separate
lots.
DWELLING, TWO- UNIT (DUPLEX): A building containing two (2) principal dwelling
units.
ELECTION SIGN: A temporary sign which displays information pertaining to an
upcoming governmental district, city, county, state or national election.
EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT: A method of determining the location of floodway
boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are capable of
conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE AND STORAGE FACILITY: A facility for maintenance, repair
or storage of equipment on property owned by the owner of said equipment.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: Underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam, water or
other transmission or distribution systems; collection, communication, supply
or disposal systems, including towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers,
pipes, conduits, cables, fire and alarm systems, traffic signals, hydrants and
similar equipment, but not including buildings.
EVERGREEN TREES: Those trees that retain their leaves during dormancy, such as
pine, spruce, juniper, yews, fir, etc.
EXTRACTIVE USE: The use of land for surface or subsurface removal of sand,
gravel, rock, industrial materials, other nonmetallic minerals, and peat not
regulated under MSA sections 93.44 to 93.51.
FACADE: That portion of any exterior elevation on the building extending from
grade to the top of the parapet, wall or eaves and the entire width of the
building elevation.
FAMILY: One or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption or foster
parent relationships occupying a dwelling and living as a single housekeeping
unit, or a group of not more than four (4) persons not so related, maintaining
a common household and using common cooking facilities. Family does not include
any society, fraternity, sorority, club, association or other like
organization.
FEEDLOT: A lot or building or combination of lots and buildings intended for
the confined feeding, breeding, raising, or holding of animals and specifically
designed as a confinement area in which manure may accumulate, or where the
concentration of animals is such that a vegetative cover cannot be maintained
within the enclosure. For purposes of this title, open lots used for the
feeding and rearing of poultry (poultry ranges) shall be considered to be
animal feedlots. Pastures shall not be considered animal feedlots under this
title.
FLAG: Any fabric or bunting containing distinctive colors, patterns, or
symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision, or other
entity.
FLASHING SIGN: An illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained constant in intensity and color at all times in which such sign is
in use or any sign which, by mechanical means, appears to simulate a flashing
sign.
FLOOD: A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage of
a wetland or lake that results in inundation of normally dry areas.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: The frequency for which it is expected that a specific flood
stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway. Flood
fringe is synonymous with the term "floodway fringe" used in the "Flood
Insurance Study For Dakota County, Minnesota, And Incorporated Areas".
FLOODPLAIN: The channel or beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake,
or watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by a regional flood.
Floodplain areas within Farmington shall encompass all areas designated as zone
AE and zone A on the flood insurance rate map.
FLOODPROOFING: A combination of structural provisions, changes or adjustments
to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the reduction
or elimination of flood damages.
FLOODWAY: The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
FLOOR AREA: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of several floors of a
building or buildings measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls or
from the centerline of party walls.
FOOD PROCESSING FACILITY: A facility that transforms raw ingredients into food
or transforms food into other forms for consumption by humans or animals either
in the home or by the food processing industry.
FUNCTIONAL VALUE INDEX: A number value from 0.1 to 1.0 given to a functional
value for a wetland.
FUNERAL HOME: A building that provides facilities for funerals; a chapel for
funeral services; rooms for viewing the remains in caskets (slumber rooms,
reposing rooms, viewing rooms, visitation rooms) before final services or
cremation; rooms for preparation of bodies (embalming, cosmetic treatment and
clothing of the deceased); display rooms and storage for caskets; garages for
hearses and other equipment; and administrative offices. A funeral home may
include family living quarters for the funeral director/owner.
GARAGE, ATTACHED: An accessory structure of a principal structure which is
intended for and used to store the private passenger vehicles and trucks not
exceeding twelve thousand (12,000) pounds' gross weight, of the family or
families resident upon the premises, and in which no business service or
industry is carried on. Access to a garage requires a paved driveway.
GARAGE, DETACHED: An accessory structure that is detached from the principal
building with the ability to park a vehicle within the structure and that
requires a garage door. The accessory structure is to be constructed of similar
materials as the principal structure.
GOLF COURSE: The land upon which individuals play the game of golf, with a
green and a flag. The golf course may include a clubhouse, and various
accessory buildings and related practice facilities and areas such as a driving
range.
GREENHOUSES AND NURSERIES, COMMERCIAL: A retail establishment for the growth,
wholesale and/or display of plants, shrubs, trees and landscape material used
in indoor and outdoor planting, conducted within or without an enclosed
building.
GROCERY STORE: A place of business established primarily for the retailing of
food.
GROUND COVER: Low growing plants or turf grass installed to form a continuous
cover over the ground surface.
GROUP DAYCARE: A facility that provides nonmedical care for children or adults
in need of personal services, supervision or assistance essential for
sustaining the activities of daily living or for the protection of the
individual on less than a twenty four (24) hour basis.
GROUP DAYCARE CENTER, COMMERCIAL: Any state licensed facility, public or
private, which for gain or otherwise regularly provides one or more persons
with care, training, supervision, habilitation, rehabilitation, or
developmental guidance on a regular basis, for periods less than twenty four
(24) hours per day, in a place other than the person's own home. Commercial
group daycares include, but are not limited to: family daycare homes, group
family daycare homes, daycare centers, day nurseries, nursery schools, daytime
activity centers, day treatment programs and other "nonresidential programs" as
defined by MSA section 245A.02, subdivision 10.
GROUP HOME: A building or residence licensed by the state as a rooming or
boarding house and that provides lodging, care and daily assistance for people
that are unable to live independently, such as the elderly, mentally ill, or
chemically dependent.
HEALTH CLUBS: A facility where members or nonmembers use equipment or space for
the purpose of physical exercise.
HOME AND TRAILER SALES/DISPLAY: The use of any building or land area for the
sales and display of homes and trailers. Incidental maintenance and servicing
is included as an accessory use.
HOME OCCUPATION: An occupation or profession that is accessory to a residential
use; carried on by a member of the family residing in the dwelling unit,
clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the building for dwelling
purposes.
HOMEOWNERS' ASSOCIATION: An organization consisting exclusively of all unit
owners which possesses certain powers and authority over common elements in
planned unit developments, condominiums, townhomes or other property.
HORTICULTURE: The growing of garden vegetables, small fruit, orchards, flowers
and shrubs or trees.
HOSPITAL: An institution providing health services primarily for human
inpatient medical and surgical care for the sick or injured and including
related facilities such as laboratories, outpatient departments, training
facilities and staff offices that are an integral part of the facilities.
HOTEL: A building in which there are more than eight (8) sleeping rooms offered
with or without meals for compensation and open to transient or permanent
guests where no provision is made for cooking in any individual room or
apartment.
ILLUMINATED SIGN: Any sign which has characters, letters, designs or outlines
illuminated by artificial light directly to or from the interior of the sign.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: A surface that has been compacted or covered with a layer
of material so that it is highly resistant to infiltration by water. It
includes surfaces such as compacted sand, lime rock, or clay, as well as most
conventionally surfaced streets, roofs, sidewalks, parking lots, and other
similar structures.
IMPOUND LOT: Any structure or land devoted principally to the storage of
impounded vehicles or recreational vehicles with or without an office on the
premises for the release of those types of vehicles. The impounded vehicles
need to be parked in a building or in the rear of a building and any outside
parking needs to be one hundred percent (100%) screened.
INTEGRAL SIGN: A sign carrying the name of a building, its date of erection,
monumental citations, commemorative tablets and the like when carved into stone
or made of bronze, or other permanent type of material and made an integral
part of the structure.
INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING: The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row or block.
INTERIOR PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING: Any landscape material located within a paved
parking area planted with live plant material, such as trees, shrubs, ground
cover, or turf grass.
KENNEL, COMMERCIAL: Any place where four (4) or more dogs (male or female) over
six (6) months of age, or more than ten (10) cats (male or female) over six (6)
months of age, or more than ten (10) ferrets (male or female) over six (6)
months of age, or any combination thereof, not including offspring under seven
(7) months of age, are commercially kept, boarded, trained or offered for sale
except when located in a pet shop or animal clinic. A kennel may include
secured outdoor runs and/or play areas.
KENNEL, RESIDENTIAL HOBBY: Any building, structure, enclosure or premises
located on a residentially used property where four (4) or more dogs (male or
female) over six (6) months of age are kept or maintained.
LED MESSAGE SIGN: A sign that displays information, in a stationary or moving
format, by passing electricity through light emitting diodes.
LANDSCAPE MATERIAL: Such living material as trees, shrubs, ground cover/vines,
turf grasses (sod), and nonliving material such as: rocks, pebbles, sand, bark,
mulch, brick pavers and earthen mounds; and/or other items of a decorative or
embellishment nature such as: fountains, pools, walls, fencing, sculpture, etc.
LANDSCAPED OPEN SPACE: All land within the property lines not covered by
structures or sidewalks, drives, patios, pavement or similar surfaces.
LANDSCAPING: Bringing the soil surface to a smooth finished grade, or designing
the soil surface with berms, installing sufficient trees, shrubs, ground cover,
grass, and other landscape materials to soften building lines, provide shade,
promote positive environmental effects, and generally produce a pleasing visual
effect on the premises.
LIGHT MANUFACTURING: The processing and fabrication of certain materials and
products where no process involved will produce noise, vibration, air
pollution, fire hazard or noxious emission which will disturb or endanger
neighboring properties.
LIMITED COMMERCIAL VENTURE: A commercial establishment conducted in a
residential structure located on a residentially zoned parcel of land and in
which the structure has been designated or determined eligible as a Farmington
heritage landmark and/or is listed on the National Register for Historic
Places. Such uses include Class I restaurant, catering centers, reception
facilities, meeting or conference facilities, professional office uses,
museums, art galleries, antique shops, craft boutiques, or other uses deemed
similar by the Zoning Administrator.
LOADING BERTH: An unobstructed area provided and maintained for the temporary
parking of trucks and other motor vehicles for the purpose of loading and
unloading goods, wares, materials and merchandise.
LOT: A parcel of land occupied or capable of being occupied by one or more
structures, having principal frontage on a public street and intended as a unit
for transfer of ownership.
LOT AREA: The area of a lot in the horizontal plane bounded by the lot lines
but not including any area occupied by the waters of a lake or river or area
which has been dedicated or intended as an easement for a public thoroughfare
or road.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two (2) or more
intersecting streets.
LOT COVERAGE: The portion of a lot that is occupied by buildings or structures,
expressed as a percentage of the total lot area.
LOT, DEPTH OF: A mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines.
LOT FRONTAGE TREES: Trees installed on private property in the front yards of
new developments by the developer per the development contract.
LOT, MINIMUM AREA: The measurements of a lot computed exclusive of any portions
of the right-of-way of any public thoroughfare.
LOT OF RECORD: Any lot which individually or as a part of a subdivision has
been recorded in the Office of the Register of Deeds of the County.
LOT, WIDTH OF: The distance measured between lot lines parallel to the front
lot line at the minimum required front yard setback.
LOWER POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE RETAIL: A licensed establishment where lower-potency
hemp edible products are sold to individual consumers who are at least twenty
one (21) years of age.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement).
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which,
in the traveling mode, is eight (8) body feet or more in width or forty (40)
body feet or more in length, or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty
(320) or more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and
designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein. The term includes any
structure that meets all of the requirements of this definition except the size
requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a
certification required by the United States Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development and complies with the standards established under United States
Code, title 42.
MANUFACTURED HOME FOR FLOODPLAIN: A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The
term "manufactured home" does not include the term "recreational vehicle".
MANUFACTURING FACILITIES: Facilities used for the manufacture, compounding,
processing, packaging, treatment or assembly of products and materials that may
or may not emit objectionable and offensive influences beyond the lot on which
the use is located. Such uses include, but are not limited to: sawmills,
refineries, commercial feedlots; acid; cement; explosives; flour, feed, and
grain milling or storage; meatpacking and slaughter houses; coal or tar asphalt
distillation; rendering of fat, grease, lard or tallow; alcoholic beverages;
poisons; exterminating agents; glue or size; lime; gypsum; plaster of paris;
tanneries; automobile parts; paper and paper products; glass chemicals, crude
oil and petroleum products including storage; electric power generation
facilities; vinegar works; junkyard; auto reduction yard; foundry forge;
casting metal products; rock, stone, cement products; lumberyards; machine
shops; products assembly; sheet metal shops; plastics; electronics; general
nonalcoholic beverages; signs and displays; printing; publishing; fabricated
metal parts; appliances; clothing; textiles and used auto parts.
MARQUEE: A rooflike structure projecting from and attached to a building. Any
sign attached to, in any manner, or made a part of a marquee (i.e., theater
marquees).
MECHANICAL SALES, SERVICE AND REPAIR: Establishments primarily engaged in the
sales, service and repair of tools, trucks, tractors, construction equipment,
agricultural implements and similar industrial equipment. Included in this use
type is the incidental storage, maintenance and servicing of such equipment.
MICRODISTILLERY: A distillery producing premium, distilled spirits in total
quantity not to exceed forty thousand (40,000) proof gallons in a calendar year
as regulated by Minnesota Statutes, as may be amended.
MINERAL EXTRACTION: Any part of the process in the extraction of minerals by
removing the overburden and extracting directly from the mineral deposits
exposed involving fifty thousand (50,000) cubic yards in a calendar year or, if
the activity of removal will last more than one year.
MINISTORAGE UNITS: A building or series of buildings consisting of individual,
small, self-contained units that are leased or owned for the storage of
business and/or household goods.
MIXED USE BUILDING: A single building that includes office, retail, or
commercial uses on at least one floor and residential apartments or
condominiums on upper floors.
MODULAR HOMES: A factory built home constructed of prefabricated three-
dimensional modules which are then delivered to a building site via separate
transport and placed on a foundation in compliance with all Federal, local, and
State building codes. The term does not include any structure that is affixed
to a permanent chassis or is equipped with wheels and/or axles.
MONOPOLE: A wireless communications tower consisting of a single pole or spire
supported by a permanent foundation, constructed without guywires and ground
anchors.
MONUMENT IDENTIFICATION SIGN: A sign identifying by name a residential,
commercial or industrial development which is attached to or supported by a
monument structure which is freestanding on the ground, extending horizontally
for a minimum of eighty percent (80%) of the entire length of the sign face.
The sign shall be constructed of any one or combination of the following
materials: brick, stone, decorative masonry, plastic, aluminum, colored metals,
or decay resistive wood.
MOTEL: A building or group of buildings used primarily as a temporary residence
for motorists, tourists or travelers.
MULTIPLE OCCUPANT SIGN: A sign identifying two (2) or more tenants of a
building or shopping center.
MUNICIPAL ENTRANCE SIGNS: A sign identifying the city name located along
roadways at the borders of the city boundary.
NATIVE GRASSES: Those species of perennial grasses other than those designated
as noxious weeds by the Minnesota department of natural resources.
NEIGHBORHOOD PRESERVATION OVERLAY DISTRICT (NPOD): A discrete, geographically
definable area containing at minimum twenty five (25) properties which have
buildings, structures, and land linked historically through location, design,
setting, feeling, and association.
NEIGHBORHOOD SERVICES: Establishments primarily engaged in the provision of
frequently or recurrently needed goods or services for household consumption,
including, but not limited to, dry cleaning, laundries, tailorings, prepackaged
food, household supplies, hardware and other commonly used services.
NONCOMMERCIAL NURSERY: A place where trees, flowering and decorative plants and
shrubs are grown on site which may be conducted within a building or without
and where the items grown are not sold to the general retail public.
NONCONFORMING SIGN: Any sign which was lawfully erected and maintained prior to
the adoption of this code which fails to conform to all applicable regulations
and restrictions of this code.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE: Any structure permitted by existing city ordinance
prior to the adoption of provisions prohibiting such use in such location.
NONCONFORMING USE: Use of land, building or structure which does not comply
with all regulations of city ordinances governing the zoning district in which
such use is located, adopted subsequent to the initiation of said use.
NONPROFIT RECREATIONAL, CULTURAL AND ENTERTAINMENT USES: A non-profit operation
which facilitates or provides services to meet varied recreational, cultural
and entertainment uses for their patrons.
NOXIOUS MATTER OR MATERIALS: Material capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction, or is capable of causing detrimental effects on
the physical or economic well being of individuals.
OBSOLETE SIGN: Any sign which no longer advertises a bona fide business
conducted or products sold.
OBSTRUCTION: Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse or regulatory floodplain which may impede, retard
or change the direction of the flow of water.
OFFICE: A facility used for conducting the affairs of a business, profession,
service, industry or government.
OFFICE SHOWROOM: A facility used for the conduct of a business that involves
the display and sale of goods or merchandise on the premises.
OFFICE WAREHOUSE: A facility used for the conduct of a business that involves
the storage and distribution of goods or merchandise from the premises.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL: The boundary of public waters and wetlands; an
elevation delineating the highest water level which has been maintained for a
sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the landscape, commonly that
point where the natural vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to
predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the ordinary high water level is
the elevation of the top of the bank of the channel. For reservoirs and
flowages, the ordinary high water level is the operating elevation of the
normal summer pool.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a
structure, sewage treatment system, or other facility and an ordinary high
water level, sewage treatment system, top of a bluff, road highway, property
line, or other facility.
ORNAMENTAL TREES: Low growing trees including those species of trees that reach
a height between fifteen feet (15') to thirty feet (30').
OUTDOOR SALES: Intermittent buying and selling plus leasing and trading of
goods, merchandise or materials where such goods are not enclosed within a
building.
OVERLAY ZONE: A mechanism which provides standards and guidelines for
architectural, aesthetic and development controls within a designated zoning
district which are more restrictive than those required by code within that
district.
PAINTED WALL SIGN: A sign which has been painted directly onto a building wall,
using the wall material as a base of the sign.
PARKING LOT: An off street, at grade, uncovered area, utilized for the
temporary storage of motor vehicles.
PARKS WITH FACILITIES: Parks that include playground equipment, shelter, ball
field, hockey rink, soccer field, or any other similar type facility.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: Criteria established to control noise, odor, toxic or
noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare or heat
generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
PERMITTED USE: A public or private use which conforms with the purposes and
objectives of a particular district and conforms with all requirements,
regulations and performance standards of such district.
PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICES: Nonretail services involving predominantly
the handling of information or the performance of administrative services which
may include services provided both on site and off site on a walk in or
appointment basis, such as counseling or indirect or nonpersonal service such
as real estate, travel agencies, financial agencies, insurance offices and
professional services which include, but are not limited to: legal, psychology,
and accounting services.
PERSONAL HEALTH AND BEAUTY SERVICES: The selling of services that involve
personal health and beauty care and treatment to clients on a walk in or
appointment basis. These services include, but are not limited to: barbershops,
beauty salons, nail salons, weight loss services, and tanning salons.
PETROLEUM BULK STORAGE: Liquid gasoline, oil, fuel oil or kerosene stored in
containers or in tanks aboveground outside of buildings.
PLACES OF WORSHIP: A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses,
where persons regularly assemble for religious worship.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A tract of land which contains one or more principal
and accessory uses developed under unified ownership or control, the
development of which may be unique and of a substantially different character
than that of the surrounding district.
PLANT COMMUNITY: In reference to plants, an interacting assemblage of plant
populations sharing a given habitat.
PORTABLE SIGN: A sign not attached to the ground and designed so as to be
movable from one location to another.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: The main structure for that use to which the premises is
devoted and principal purpose for which the premises exists.
PRINCIPAL USE: The main use to which the premises is devoted and the principal
purpose for which the premises exists.
PROJECTING SIGN: A sign displayed perpendicular to the surface of a building.
PUBLIC BUILDING: Any building and/or structure owned or operated by a
municipality, school district, county, state, or other governmental unit.
PUBLIC GARDENS: Include botanic gardens, arboretums, historic landscapes,
conservatories, and display gardens. These gardens focus on display,
evaluation, conservation, and research of plants in landscaped and natural
settings.
PUBLIC INFORMATION SIGN: Noncommercial signs in the public interest identifying
events or public information.
PUBLIC PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS: Any land owned or leased by the city for the use
of the public for active or passive recreation.
PUBLIC UTILITY BUILDING: An occupied structure, building or mechanical facility
owned and operated by a public or private utility company which occupies less
than five hundred (500) square feet of land area.
PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICE: The providing of electric power, gas, landline
telephone service, sanitary sewer and water, plus storm sewers, where
appropriate, to the general public.
PUBLIC WATERS: Any waters as defined in MSA section 105.37, subdivisions 14 and
15.
PUMP SETBACK: The distance from the street right of way line to the centerline
of the motor fuel station pump island measured as a perpendicular distance from
the right of way.
PYLON SIGN: Any stationary, self-supporting sign not affixed to any other
structure and supported by a pole(s).
REACH: A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or manmade obstruction. The segment of
a stream or river between two (2) consecutive bridge crossings would most
typically constitute a reach.
READER BOARD SIGN: That portion of a sign used for removable letters and/or
numbers to convey messages.
REAL ESTATE SIGN: A temporary sign erected by a realtor or private individual
for purposes of advertising for sale or lease a particular building and/or
parcel of property.
RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT, SALES, SERVICE AND REPAIR: A use that sells, services
and repairs recreational vehicles and equipment.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Any self-propelled vehicle and any vehicle propelled or
drawn by a self-propelled vehicle built on a single chassis and four hundred
(400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection
which is used for recreational purposes, including, but not limited to,
recreational camping vehicles as defined by Minnesota Statutes Annotated 327.14
subdivision 7, boats, and off highway vehicles such as snowmobiles, trail
bikes, motorcycles and other all-terrain vehicles.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE STORAGE FACILITY: Any facility and/or property utilized
for the storage, either temporarily or permanently, of recreational vehicles on
property not owned by the owner(s) of the recreational vehicle.
RECYCLABLE MATERIALS: Materials that are separated from mixed municipal solid
waste for the purpose of recycling as defined in the city's solid waste code,
including, but not limited to, paper, glass, metals, automobile oil, batteries,
cardboard, rubber (excluding tires and wood products).
RECYCLING FACILITY: A building used for the collection and processing of
recyclable materials. Processing does not include end use manufacturing. The
collection and processing of recyclable materials includes the preparation of
material for efficient shipment or end users' specifications, by such means as
baling, briquetting, compacting, flattening, grinding, crushing, mechanical
sorting and shredding.
REGIONAL FLOOD: A flood which is representative of large floods known to have
occurred generally in Minnesota and characteristic of what can be expected to
occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year recurrence
interval. Regional flood is synonymous with the term "base flood" used in the
flood insurance study.
REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION: An elevation no lower than two feet (2')
above the elevation of the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation
caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from the designation of a
floodway. Increases to the regional flood elevation (also referred to as the 1
percent annual chance flood elevation) caused by encroachments on the
floodplain that result from the designation of a floodway shall be determined
in one of the following ways: a) for zone AE areas, by using the appropriate
value in the "increase (feet)" column for the "1-percent-annual-chance flood
water surface elevation" from the respective data table in the document titled
"Flood Insurance Study, Dakota County, Minnesota And Incorporated Areas" as
adopted by reference in subsection
10-5-25(D)1 of this title; or b) for zone A areas, in accordance with the
procedures spelled out in subsection
10-5-25(F)3 of this title.
RESEARCH FACILITY: Any establishment where research and development are
conducted related to activities such as the manufacturing or production of
tangible personal property, including medical, technical and scientific
research.
RESIDENTIAL PLANNED USE DEVELOPMENT: A use where the nature of residency is
nontransient and the major or primary focus of the development is not service
oriented. For example, residential apartments, manufactured home parks,
timeshare condominiums, townhouses, cooperatives, and full fee ownership
residences would be considered as residential planned unit developments. To
qualify as a residential planned unit development, a development must contain
at least five (5) dwelling units or sites.
RESTAURANTS, CLASS I; TRADITIONAL: An establishment serving food in or on
nondisposable dishes to be consumed primarily while seated at tables or booths
within a building and which does not serve liquor.
RESTAURANTS, CLASS II; FAST FOOD CONVENIENCE: Restaurants where customers are
served their food at a counter or in a motor vehicle in packages prepared to
leave the premises or to be taken to a table or counter to be consumed.
RESTAURANTS, CLASS III; WITH LIQUOR SERVICE: An establishment serving both food
and alcoholic beverages, but in which the principal business is the sale of
such beverages at retail for consumption on the premises.
RESTAURANTS, CLASS IV; NONINTOXICATING: An establishment serving food in or on
nondisposable dishes to be consumed primarily while seated at tables or booths
within a building and which has no on- sale liquor service. On-sale beer and
wine permitted as regulated by this code.
RETAIL SALES AND SERVICE: A use engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the
general public for personal or household consumption and rendering services
incidental to the sale of such goods.
ROOFLINE: That line at which an exterior wall surface of a building structure
departs from a vertical frame.
SCHOOL, PRIVATE: Any building or group of buildings, not operated by a public
agency or unit of government, the use of which meets compulsory education laws
of the state of Minnesota for elementary school, middle school (junior high
school), secondary (senior high school), or higher education and which use does
not secure the major part of its funding directly from any governmental source
and including clinics as an accessory use that primarily serve or support
employees of the school and their dependents.
SCHOOL, PAROCHIAL: A private school maintained by a religious body usually for
elementary and secondary instruction.
SCHOOL, PUBLIC: Any building or group of buildings, the use of which meets
compulsory education laws of the state of Minnesota for elementary school,
middle school (junior high school), secondary (senior high school), or higher
education and which secures all or the major part of its funding from
governmental sources and is operated by a public agency or governmental unit
and including clinics as an accessory use that primarily serve or support
employees of the school and their dependents.
SCREENING: A method by which a view of one site from another adjacent site is
shielded, concealed, or hidden. Screening techniques include fences, walls,
hedges, tree rows, berms, or other features.
SEASONAL PRODUCE STANDS: A temporary use for the purpose of selling seasonal
produce.
SEAT: When referred to in order to determine the number of parking spaces
required for a use such as church, theater or stadium, a seat shall equal
twenty two inches (22").
SEGREGATED CONDOMINIUM: The condominium consists of a single lot or group of
lots within a plat.
SENIOR CARE FACILITY: A facility which provides personal and/or medical
assistance in a home-like setting to those who cannot live independently.
Facilities can range from assisted living to nursing homes.
SETBACK: The minimum distance between the related front, side and rear setback
lines.
SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM: A septic tank and soil absorption system or other
individual or cluster type sewage treatment.
SEWER SYSTEM: Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, and force main, and all
other construction, devices, appliances, or appurtenances used for conducting
sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of ultimate disposal.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS: A sexually oriented arcade; sexually oriented
bookstore; sexually oriented video store; sexually oriented cabaret; sexually
oriented conversation/rap parlor; sexually oriented massage parlor; sexually
oriented motel; sexually oriented motion picture theater; sexually oriented
sauna; sexually oriented theater; escort agency; nude model studio; sexual
encounter center; and other premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses,
or places open to some or all members of the public, at or in which there is an
emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction, or description of "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" which are capable of being
seen by members of the public.
   (A)   Specified Anatomical Area: Any of the following:
      1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, and female breasts below a point immediately above the top of
the areola;
      2.   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if opaquely
covered.
   (B)   Specified Sexual Activities: Includes any of the following:
      1.   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts;
      2.   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      3.   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      4.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in subsections (B)1 through (B)3 of this definition.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS - ACCESSORY: The offering of retail goods for sale
which are classified as sexually oriented uses on a limited scale and which are
incidental to the primary activity and goods and/or services offered by the
establishment. Examples of such items include the sale of sexually oriented
books or magazines, or the sale and/or rental of sexually oriented motion
pictures.
SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS - PRINCIPAL: The offering of goods and/or services
which are classified as sexually oriented uses as a primary or sole activity of
a business or establishment and include, but are not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Escort: A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   (B)   Escort Agency: A person or business association who furnishes, offers
to furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business
purposes, for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   (C)   Establishment: Means and includes any of the following:
      1. The opening or commencement of any sexually oriented business as a new
business;
      2. The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually
oriented business, to any sexually oriented business;
      3. The addition of any sexually oriented business to any other existing
sexually oriented business; or
      4. The relocation of any sexually oriented business.
   (D)   Nude Model Studio: Any place where a person who appears in a state of
nudity or displays "specified anatomical areas" is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons who pay money or any form of consideration.
   (E)   Nudity Or State Of Nudity: Is described as follows:
      1. The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus, male genitals, female
genitals, or female breasts; or
      2. The state of dress which fails to opaquely cover a human buttock,
anus, male genitals, female genitals, or areola of the female breast.
   (F)   Seminude: A state of dress in which clothing covers no more than the
genitals, pubic region, and areola of the female breast, as well as portions of
the body covered by supporting straps or devices.
   (G)   Sexual Encounter Center: A business or commercial enterprise that, as
one of its primary business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
      1. Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between persons
of the opposite sex; or
      2. Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the same
sex when one or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or seminude.
   (H)   Sexually Oriented Arcade: Any place to which the public is permitted
or invited wherein coin operated or slug operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, or other image producing devices are maintained to show images to
five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by the depicting or describing of
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   (I)   Sexually Oriented Bookstore, Or Sexually Oriented Video Store: A
commercial establishment which as a principal business purpose offers for sale
or rental for any form of consideration any one or more of the following:
      1. Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or photographs,
films, motion pictures, videocassettes or video reproductions, compact discs,
computer software, digital recordings, slides, or other visual representations
which depict or describe "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas".
   (J)   Sexually Oriented Cabaret: A nightclub, bar, restaurant, or similar
commercial establishment which regularly features:
      1. Persons who appear in a state of nudity; or
      2. Live performances which are characterized by the exposure of
"specified anatomical areas" or by "specified sexual activities"; or
      3. Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, compact discs,
computer software, digital recordings or other photographic reproductions which
are characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   (K)   Sexually Oriented Conversation/Rap Parlor: A conversation/rap parlor
which excludes minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or discussion between an
employee of the establishment and a customer, if such service is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas".
   (L)   Sexually Oriented Massage Parlor: A massage parlor which excludes
minors by reason of age, or which provides for any form of consideration, the
rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping, or rolling of the body, if the service
provided by the massage parlor is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   (M)   Sexually Oriented Motel: A hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishment which:
      1. Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration;
provides patrons with closed circuit television transmissions, films, motion
pictures, videocassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions which are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas"; and has a sign visible from the public right
of way which advertises the availability of this adult type of photographic
reproductions; or
      2. Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less than
ten (10) hours; or
      3. Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room for
a period of time that is less than ten (10) hours.
   (N)   Sexually Oriented Motion Picture Theater: A commercial establishment
where, for any form of consideration, films, motion pictures, videocassettes,
slides, or similar photographic reproductions are regularly shown which are
characterized by the depiction or description of "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas".
   (O)   Sexually Oriented Sauna: A sauna which excludes minors by reason of
age, or which provides for any form of consideration, a steam bath or heat
bathing room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxing, or reducing, utilizing
steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing, or reducing agent, if the service
provided by the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas".
   (P)   Sexually Oriented Theater: A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or
similar commercial establishment which regularly features persons who appear in
a state of nudity or live performances which are characterized by the exposure
of "specified anatomical areas" or "specified sexual activities".
SHED: An accessory structure customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal structure and used primarily for storage purposes.
SHORE IMPACT ZONE: Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of fifty percent (50%) of
the structure setback.
SHORELAND: Land located within the following distances from public waters: one
thousand feet (1,000') from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond or
flowage; and three hundred feet (300') from a river or stream, or the landward
extent of a floodplain designed by ordinance on a river or stream, whichever is
greater. The limits of shorelands may be reduced whenever the waters involved
are bounded by topographic divides which extend landward from the waters for
lesser distances and when approved by the commissioner.
SHRUBS: Any self-supporting, woody plant of a species that normally grows to an
overall height of less than fifteen feet (15') in this region.
SIGN: A name, identification, description, display, illustration, structure,
device which is affixed to, or painted, or represented directly or indirectly
upon a building or other outdoor surface or a piece of land, and which directs
attention to an object, product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization or business. A sign shall be considered as a structure or part of
a structure for the purpose of applying yard and height regulations.
SIGN AREA: That area measured within the perimeter lines of the sign which
bears the advertisement; or in the case of messages, figures, or symbols,
including those attached directly to any part of a building. The sign area
encompasses the extreme limits of the written message, representation, emblem
or other display used to convey the message of the sign, together with any
material or color forming an integral part of the background of the display or
used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it
is placed. The area of the sign face with more than one sign face shall be
computed by adding together the area of all sign faces readable from any one
point. When two (2) identical sign faces are readable from any one point, both
shall be computed. When two (2) identical sign faces are placed back to back,
the sign area shall be computed by the measurement of one of the faces provided
that both faces are not readable from any one point and the angle at which the
two (2) sign faces are placed does not exceed forty five degrees (45°).
SIGN GRADE: The elevation or level of the ground at the place the sign is to be
erected.
SIGN HEIGHT: The height of a sign shall be measured from the base of the sign
at the adjacent curb elevation to the top of the highest attached component of
the sign.
SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITE: Any archaeological site, standing structure, or
other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the National Register
of Historic Places or is listed in the State Register of Historic Sites, or is
determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of MSA
section 307.08. A historic site meets these criteria if it is presently listed
on either register or if it is determined to meet the qualifications for
listing after review by the Minnesota state archaeologist or the director of
the Minnesota Historical Society. All unplatted cemeteries are automatically
considered to be significant historic sites.
SINGLE OCCUPANT SIGN: A sign identifying one tenant of a building or in a
development.
SNIPE SIGN: Any sign of any material whatsoever that is attached in any way to
a utility pole, tree or any object located or situated on public property.
SOIL PULVERIZING OPERATION: An operation which breaks up and pulverizes the
soil preparing for seeding, sod installation, etc.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: A set of devices whose primary purpose is to collect solar
energy and convert and store it for useful purposes including heating and
cooling buildings or other energy using processes, or to produce generated
power by means of any combination of collecting, transferring, or converting
solar generated energy.
SPECIAL EVENT SIGN: A sign, temporary in nature and not permanently attached to
the ground, announcing a special communitywide event or activity conducted by,
sponsored by, or on behalf of the city of Farmington, or another governmental
entity, or a charitable or a not for profit organization.
SPECIAL RECYCLING ACTIVITY: Recycling activity associated with nonprofit
community organization events or fundraisers which have obtained a special
recycling activity permit pursuant to section
7-1-3 of this code. Each nonprofit organization shall be limited to four (4)
72-hour events per year.
SPECIALIZED ANIMAL RAISING FACILITIES: The use of land and buildings for the
raising and care of fur-bearing animal such as rabbits and domestic pets,
stabling and care of horses, animal kennels, and the raising of any other
domestic animals of a similar nature.
SPRUCE STREET COMMERCIAL DISTRICT: Area legally described as follows: Beginning
at the point of intersection with the centerline of CSAH 50 and the centerline
of CSAH 31 in the City of Farmington, Minnesota, County of Dakota; thence
easterly from said point along said centerline of CSAH 50 to the point of
intersection with the centerline of CSAH 50 and the centerline of Denmark
Avenue; thence southerly from said point along said centerline of Denmark
Avenue to the point of intersection with the centerline of the South Creek of
the Vermillion River; thence westerly from said point along said centerline of
the South Creek of the Vermillion River to the point of intersection the
westerly line of Section 36, Township 114 North, Range 20 West; thence
northerly from said point along said line of Section 36, Township 114 North,
Range 20 West to the point of beginning.
STABLES AND RIDING ACADEMIES: Any structure and/or land use designed or
arranged for the boarding, training or riding of horses.
STEEP SLOPE: Land where agricultural activity or development is either not
recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site's
soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available county soil surveys
or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
this ordinance. Where specific information is not available, steep slopes are
lands having an average slope over twelve percent (12%), as measured over
horizontal distances of fifty feet (50') or more that are not bluffs.
STORABLE SWIMMING POOL: A pool with nonmetallic, molded polymeric walls or
inflatable fabric walls constructed on or above the ground and is so
constructed that it may be readily disassembled for storage and reassembled to
its original integrity.
STRAIGHT TRUCKS: A vehicle used to carry large or heavy loads that is
nonjointed and is not a semitractor trailer truck.
STREET: For purposes of this title, any reference to street herein shall mean
any street or roadway, public or private, but not to include private driveways.
STREETS, PRIVATE: Any road or street that is not publicly owned and maintained
and used for access by the occupants of the development, their guests, and the
general public.
STREETS, PUBLIC: A public roadway, constructed within the boundaries of an
officially deeded and accepted public right of way, which affords access to
abutting property.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a fixed
location on the ground or an attachment to something having a fixed location on
the ground, including, but not limited to, buildings, billboards, carports,
porches, signs, retaining walls, decks and other building features, but not
including sidewalks, drives, fences and patios.
SUBDIVISION: Land that is divided for the purpose of sale, rent, or lease,
including planned unit developments.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Within any consecutive three hundred sixty five (365)
day period, any reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance
and repair), repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
   (A)   Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety codes specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
   (B)   Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the alteration
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
structure".
SUPPLY YARD: A commercial establishment storing or offering for sale building
supplies, steel supplies, coal, heavy equipment, feed and grain and similar
goods. Supply yards do not include the wrecking, salvaging, dismantling or
storage of automobiles and similar vehicles.
TAPROOM: An area for the on-sale consumption of malt liquor produced by the
brewer for consumption on the premises of a brewery or an abutting property in
common ownership of the brewer, which may include sales of malt liquor produced
and packaged at the brewery for off premises consumption as allowed by
Minnesota statutes, as may be amended.
THEATER: A facility devoted to showing of motion pictures or for dramatic,
dance, musical or other live performance. Such facilities may include related
services such as food and beverage sales and other concessions.
TOE OF THE BLUFF: The lower point of a fifty foot (50') segment with an average
slope exceeding eighteen percent (18%).
TOP OF THE BLUFF: The higher point of a fifty foot (50') segment with an
average slope exceeding eighteen percent (18%).
TOWER: Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, structure or combination thereof
taller than fifteen feet (15'), including supporting lines, cables, wires,
braces, and masts, intended primarily for the purpose of mounting an antenna,
meteorological device, or similar apparatus above grade.
TOWER, MULTIUSER: A tower to which is attached the antennas of more than one
commercial wireless telecommunication service provider or governmental entity.
TOWER, SINGLE USER: A tower to which is attached only the antennas of a single
user, although the tower may be designed to accommodate the antennas of
multiple users as required in this code.
TRAFFIC DIRECTIONAL SIGN: A sign for the purpose of guiding vehicular and
pedestrian traffic in a safe and convenient manner and which bears no
advertising information.
TRAVEL TRAILER AND BOAT STORAGE FACILITY: Indoor or outdoor facility for the
storage of trailers, boats and other such recreational vehicles.
TREES: Any self-supporting, woody plant of a species which normally grows to an
overall minimum height of fifteen feet (15') in this region.
TRUCK GARDENING: Small-scale cultivation of berries, flowers, fruits, grains,
herbs, mushrooms, nuts, ornamental plants, seedlings or vegetables for personal
use on-site or for the sale or distribution off-site.
TRUCK TERMINAL: Any structure or land devoted principally to the receipt,
transfer, short term storage, and dispatching of goods transported by truck.
TURF: A species of perennial grass grown as permanent lawns or for landscape
purposes as distinguished from those species grown for agricultural or
commercial seed purposes.
UTILITY TRAILER: A trailer, enclosed or unenclosed, used to transport personal
property, materials, or equipment.
VARIANCE: (A) A waiving by the board of adjustment of literal provisions of
this zoning title.
   (B)   A modification of a specific permitted development standard required
in this title to allow an alternative development standard not stated as
acceptable, but only as applied to a particular property for the purpose of
alleviating a hardship, practical difficulty or unique circumstance.
VEGETATION, NATIVE: The presettlement group of plant species native to the
local region, that were not introduced as a result of European settlement or
subsequent human introduction.
WALL SIGN: A sign affixed directly to the exterior wall or screening surface
and confined within the limits thereof and which projects from that surface
less than fifteen inches (15") at all points.
WAREHOUSE RETAIL: A facility used for the conduct of a business that involves
the storage and distribution of goods or merchandise from the premises that
also contains a retail component that comprises less than thirty percent (30%)
of the total floor area occupied. No outdoor display or storage is allowed with
this use.
WAREHOUSING FACILITY: A building and/or facility used primarily for the
extended storage of goods and materials.
WATER ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY: A small, aboveground building
or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks and retaining walls,
which, because of the relationship of its use to a surface water feature,
reasonably needs to be located closer to public waters than the normal
structure setback. Examples of such structures and facilities include
boathouses, gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pump houses and detached
decks.
WETLAND: Lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, where
the water table is usually at or near the surface or the land is covered by
shallow water. Consistent with the WCA, wetlands are to be identified and
delineated using the methodology set forth in the federal manual for
identifying and delineating jurisdictional wetlands (interagency task force on
wetland delineation, 1987). For purposes of this definition, wetlands must have
three (3) of the following attributes:
   (A)   A predominance of hydric soils;
   (B)   Inundated or saturated by surface or ground water at a frequency and
duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic vegetation typically
adapted for life in saturated soil conditions;
   (C)   Under normal circumstances support a prevalence of such vegetation.
This definition does not include wetlands created from uplands either: 1) for
stormwater storage and management purposes, or 2) by actions not intended to
create the wetland and approved, permitted, funded or overseen by a public
entity.
WETLAND ALTERATION: Human induced actions that adversely impact the existing
condition of a wetland or wetland buffer area, including grading, filling,
dredging, dumping; cutting, pruning, topping, and clearing native vegetation;
and discharging pollutants (except stormwater). Alteration does not include
walking, passive recreation, fishing, farming, planting that enhances native
vegetation, or other similar activities allowed under the Minnesota wetland
conservation act.
WETLAND EDGE: The line delineating the outer edge of a wetland. This line shall
be established by using the 1987 corps of engineers (COE) wetlands delineation
manual (environmental laboratory, 1987).
WETLAND ENHANCE: To heighten the value of wetlands or wetland buffers with
respect to the purposes of this title.
WHOLESALE BUSINESS: A business which sells goods, equipment and materials by
bulk to another business or final customer.
WILDLIFE FEEDING STATION: An area where food is deliberately provided for
wildlife.
WINDOW SIGN: Any sign, pictures, symbol, or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale, or
service, that is placed inside a window or upon the windowpanes or glass and is
visible from the exterior of the window.
YARD: A required open space on a lot which is unoccupied or unobstructed by a
structure from its lowest level to the sky except as permitted in this title.
The yard extends along the lot line at right angles to such lot line to a depth
or width specified in the setback regulations for the zoning district in which
such lot is located.
YARD, FRONT: A yard extending along the full width of the front lot line
between side lot lines and extending from the abutting street right of way line
to a depth required in the setback regulations for the zoning district in which
such lot is located. For lots that abut more than one street such as corner and
through lots, there may be more than one front yard for purposes of calculating
setbacks. Front yard setbacks shall apply to all yard spaces adjacent to a
street right of way. Front yard setbacks for structures fronting on private
streets shall be measured from the back of curb.
YARD, REAR: The portion of the yard on the same lot with the principal building
located between the rear line of the building and the rear lot line and
extending for the full width of the lot.
YARD, SIDE: The yard extending along the side lot line between the front yard
and the rear yard to a depth or width required by setback regulations for the
zoning district in which such lot is located.
ZONING DISTRICT: An area or areas within the limits of the City of Farmington
for which the regulations and requirements governing use, lot size, buildable
area and density are uniform.
ZONING OFFICER OR ZONING ADMINISTRATOR: The person designated by the City
Administrator to be the Zoning Administrator for the City of Farmington.
(Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 002-477, 7-15-2002; Ord. 002-483, 12-2-
2002; Ord. 003-485, 2-18-2003; Ord. 003-496, 7-7-2003; Ord. 004-511, 7-19-2004;
Ord. 004-513, 8-2-2004; Ord. 004-519, 9-20-2004; Ord. 005-526, 3-21-2005; Ord.
005-530, 5-16-2005; Ord. 005-538, 7-5-2005; Ord. 005-542, 9-6-2005; Ord. 006-
556, 5-15-2006; Ord. 006-562, 9-18-2006; Ord. 007-573, 6-18-2007; Ord. 008-580,
3-3-2008; Ord. 008-582, 5-5-2008; Ord. 008-583, 5-5-2008; Ord. 008-586, 9-15-
2008; Ord. 008-596, 12-15-2008; Ord. 009-606, 7-20-2009; Ord. 009-607, 8-3-
2009; Ord. 010-626, 9-7-2010; Ord. 011-635, 7-18-2011; Ord. 011-640, 11-7-2011;
Ord. 014-669, 9-2-2014; Ord. 015-699, 8-17-2015; Ord. 015-700, 8-17-2015; Ord.
015-704, 10-19-2015; Ord. 018-737, 3-19-2018; Ord. 019-746, 5-20-2019; Ord.
021-761, 8-16-2021; Ord. 2024-02, 1-16-2024; Ord. 2024-03, 2-20-2024; Ord.
2024-04, 3-18-2024; Ord. 2024-13, 12-16-2024)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Zoning Officer
10-3-2: Certificate Of Occupancy
10-3-3: Board Of Adjustment
10-3-4: Appeals
10-3-5: Conditional Uses
10-3-6: Variances
10-3-7: Interim Uses
10-3-8: Special Exceptions
10-3-9: Appeals, Fees
10-3-10: Appeals To City Council
10-3-11: Invalidation
10-3-12: Amendments
10-3-13: Enforcement Penalties
10-3-14: Enforcement Remedies
10-3-1: ZONING OFFICER:
The city planner, designated by the city administrator as the zoning officer
shall:
   (A)   Administer and enforce the provisions of this title.
   (B)   Upon application, establish and advertise public hearings.
   (C)   Maintain a permanent file of all applications as public record.
   (D)   Maintain an updated zoning map. (Ord. 003-496, 7-7-2003)
10-3-2: CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY:
An application for a certificate of occupancy shall be accompanied by a plot
plan showing the location, dimension and such other information as is required
by the building official, together with a fee as determined annually by the
city council. A certificate of occupancy shall be obtained before any person
may:
   (A)   Occupy or use any vacant land; or
   (B)   Occupy or use any structure hereafter constructed, reconstructed,
moved, altered or enlarged; or
   (C)   Change the use of a structure or land to a different use; or
   (D)   Change a nonconforming use. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-3-3: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
The planning commission shall act as the zoning board of adjustment with
identical composition, membership, officers and terms of office, with the
following duties:
   (A)   Hear, review and authorize variances from the requirements of this
title and to attach such conditions to the variance as it deems necessary to
assure compliance with the purpose of this title.
   (B)   Hear and review all applications for conditional use permits provided
for within this title and grant approval based upon the criteria and provisions
listed.
   (C)   Hear and review all applications to change lawful nonconforming uses.
   (D)   Submit copies of applications for variances and special exceptions
within the floodplain districts to the commissioner of natural resources ten
(10) days prior to public hearings and forward copies of all decisions granting
variances and special exceptions in these areas to the commissioner of natural
resources within ten (10) days of such action. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd.
Ord. 023-776, 9-18-2023)
10-3-4: APPEALS:
An appeal from a ruling of the zoning officer may be taken by the property
owner or agent within thirty (30) days after the order utilizing the following
procedure:
   (A)   The property owner or agent shall file with the zoning officer a
notice of appeal stating the specific grounds upon which the appeal is made.
   (B)   The zoning officer shall transmit the appeal to the board of
adjustment for study and recommendation at its next regular meeting.
   (C)   The board of adjustment shall make its decision within sixty (60) days
and a copy of the motion shall be mailed to the applicant by the zoning
officer. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-3-5: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses, as specified within each zoning district, may be allowed or
denied by the board of adjustment in accordance with the criteria and
provisions listed herein. The board of adjustment may establish any reasonable
conditions of approval that are deemed necessary to mitigate adverse impacts
associated with the conditions of use to protect neighboring properties, and to
achieve the objectives elsewhere in this title.
   (A)   Applications for conditional uses shall be filed with the zoning
officer and shall be accompanied by:
      1.   An application fee in an amount equal to that set by the city
council.
      2.   Six (6) copies of a site plan and supporting data which shows the
site size and location; use of adjacent land; the proposed size, bulk, use and
location of buildings; the location and proposed junction of yards, open space,
parking area, driveways, storage areas and accessory structures; the location
of all utilities and timing of proposed construction as the zoning officer may
require.
      3.   The zoning officer, at his discretion, may require a topographic map
of the site and reduced copies of all required material suitable for mailing.
      4.   An abstractor's certificate of property owner(s) name(s) and address
(es) within three hundred fifty feet (350') of the outer boundaries of the
property in question.
      5.   When the applicant is requesting a conditional use under section
10-6-14 of this title, an abstractor's certificate of property owner(s) name(s)
and address(es) within a distance of the outer boundaries of the property in
question as set by the city council after review of the height of the proposed
antenna, the proximity of residential development and any other factors as
determined by the city council.
   (B)   The zoning officer shall set a public hearing and forward copies of
the application to the board of adjustment. The zoning officer shall also be
responsible for notifying the city council when an applicant applies for a
conditional use under section
10-6-14 of this title. The city council shall determine the proper distance for
notice as determined under section
10-6-14 of this title. The zoning officer shall also be responsible for mailing
a notice to property owners within three hundred fifty feet (350') or that
distance set by the city council for television and radio antenna of the
subject property. Failure of such owners to receive notice shall not invalidate
the proceedings.
      1.   The board of adjustment must take action within sixty (60) days
unless the petitioner agrees in writing to a time extension and it may attach
such conditions to the approval of any conditional use as may be necessary.
      2.   The approved site plan and all attached conditions shall be filed by
the petitioner with the zoning officer within thirty (30) days of final
approval. Any development contrary to the approved plan shall constitute a
violation of this title.
   (C)   A conditional use shall be approved if it is found to meet the
following criteria:
      1.   The proposed use conforms to the district permitted and conditional
use provisions and all general regulations of this title.
      2.   The proposed use shall not involve any element or cause any
conditions that may be dangerous, injurious or noxious to any other property or
persons and shall comply with the performance standards listed below.
      3.   The proposed use shall be constructed, designed, sited, oriented and
landscaped to produce harmonious relationship of buildings and grounds to
adjacent buildings and properties.
      4.   The proposed use shall produce a total visual impression and
environment which is consistent with the environment of the neighborhood.
      5.   The proposed use shall organize vehicular access and parking to
minimize traffic congestion in the neighborhood.
      6.   The proposed use shall preserve the objectives of this title and
shall be consistent with the comprehensive plan.
   (D)   All conditional uses shall comply with the requirements of this
section. In order to determine whether a proposed use will conform to the
requirements of this title, the board of adjustment may obtain a qualified
consultant to testify. Said consultant service fees shall be borne by the
applicant.
      1.   Fire prevention and fighting equipment acceptable to the board of
fire underwriters shall be readily available when any activity involving the
handling or storage of flammable or explosive material is carried on.
      2.   No activity shall cause electrical disturbance adversely affecting
radio or other equipment in the vicinity.
      3.   Noise which is determined to be objectionable because of volume,
frequency, or beat shall be muffled or otherwise controlled, except for fire
sirens and related apparatus used solely for public purpose shall be exempt
from this requirement.
      4.   Vibrations detectable without instruments on neighboring property in
any district shall be prohibited.
      5.   No malodorous gas or matter shall be permitted which is discernible
on any adjoining lot or property.
      6.   No pollution of air by fly ash, dust, smoke, vapors or other
substance shall be permitted which is harmful to health, animals, vegetation or
other property.
      7.   Lighting devices which produce objectionable direct lighting or
reflect glare on adjoining properties or thoroughfares shall not be permitted.
      8.   No erosion by wind or water shall be permitted which will carry
objectionable substances onto neighboring properties.
      9.   Water pollution shall be subject to the standards established by the
Minnesota pollution control agency.
      10.   Applications for conditional uses in the floodplain districts shall
be accompanied by reports from the city engineer on the following material as
supplied by the applicant:
            (a)    Site plans indicating existing and proposed structures,
fill, material storage, floodproofing measures and their relationship to the
stream channels.
            (b)    Typical valley cross sections through the site, indicating
the elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, landform
changes proposed on the site together with high water information.
            (c)    Soils maps, topographic maps at a two foot (2') contour
interval, vegetative cover plus the location and elevation of streets, water
supply and sanitary facilities.
            (d)    Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the stream
channel.
            (e)    Specifications for building construction and materials,
floodproofing, filling, dredging, grading channel improvement, material
storage, water supply and sanitary facilities.
            (f)    Plans showing the floor protection measures to be taken in
accordance with this section.
            (g)    An analysis of the above information by a registered
professional engineer which includes the following:
               (1)    An estimate of the peak discharge of the regional flood.
               (2)    The water surface profile of the regional flood based
upon a hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and over bank areas.
               (3)    The effect of the proposed encroachment on the stage and
velocity during the regional flood event.
   (E)   Prior to the approval and issuance of a permit, there shall be
executed by the applicant and submitted to the zoning officer, an agreement to
construct required improvements, to dedicate property or easements, if any, to
the city and to comply with conditions as may have been established by the
board of adjustment. Such agreement shall be accompanied by surety acceptable
to the city administrator in the amount of the established costs of complying
with the agreement. The aforesaid agreement and surety shall be provided to
guarantee completion and compliance with the conditions set forth in the permit
within the time to be approved by the board of adjustment. The amount of the
surety may be increased or decreased by the zoning officer to reflect
inflation, changed conditions, or compliance with permit conditions.
   (F)   Denial Of Permit: No application for a conditional use which has been
denied wholly or in part by the planning commission or by the city council
after an appeal, shall be resubmitted for a period of six (6) months from the
date of said order of denial, except on grounds of new evidence or proof of
change of conditions found to be valid by the board of adjustment. (Ord. 002-
469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 023-776, 9-18-2023)
10-3-6: VARIANCES:
The board of adjustment shall have the power to hear requests for variances
from the requirements of any official control including restrictions placed on
nonconformities. Variances shall only be permitted when they are in harmony
with the general purposes and intent of the official control and when variances
are consistent with the comprehensive plan. Variances may be granted when the
applicant for the variance establishes and the board of adjustment finds that
there are practical difficulties in complying with the official control. The
board of adjustment may impose conditions in granting of variances. A condition
must be directly related to and must bear a rough proportionality to the impact
created by the variance.
"Practical difficulties" as used in connection with the granting of a variance,
means that the property owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable
manner not permitted by an official control, the plight of the landowner is due
to circumstances unique to the property not created by the landowner; and the
variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of the locality.
Practical difficulties include, but are not limited to, inadequate access to
direct sunlight for solar energy systems and variances shall be granted for
earth sheltered construction as defined in state law when in harmony with this
code.
   (A)   The following exhibits shall be required with a variance application
unless waived by the zoning officer:
      1.   A boundary survey or an area survey including the property in
question and up to three hundred feet (300') beyond showing: topography,
utilities, lot boundaries, buildings, easements and soil test data if
pertinent.
      2.   A site development plan showing buildings, parking, loading, access,
surface drainage, landscaping and utility service.
   (B)   Procedure for obtaining a variance from the regulations of this title
are as follows:
      1.   The property owner or agent shall file with the zoning officer an
application form together with required exhibits plus a filing fee in an amount
established annually by the city council.
      2.   The zoning officer shall set a public hearing, transmit the
application directly to the board of adjustment and mail a notice to property
owners adjacent to the subject property disregarding public rights of way.
Failure of such owners to receive notice shall not invalidate the proceedings.
      3.   The board of adjustment shall, within sixty (60) days of submittal
of all required exhibits, approve, deny or approve under conditions accepted by
the applicant.
   (C)   The board of adjustment shall not approve any variance request unless
they find that "practical difficulties" as previously defined exist using the
following criteria:
      1.   Because the particular physical surroundings, or the shape,
configuration, topography, or other conditions of the specific parcel of land
involved, strict adherence to the regulations of this title would cause
practical difficulties. Economic consideration alone does not constitute
practical difficulties.
      2.   That the variance would be consistent with the comprehensive plan.
      3.   That the variance would be in harmony with the general purposes and
intent of this title.
      4.   The conditions upon which a variance is based are unique to the
parcel of land for which the variance is sought and are not applicable,
generally, to other properties within the same zoning classification.
      5.   The alleged difficulty or hardship is caused by this title and has
not been created by any persons presently having an interest in the parcel of
land.
      6.   The granting of the variance will not alter the essential character
of the locality or be injurious to other property in the vicinity in which the
parcel of land is located or substantially diminish property values.
      7.   The proposed variance will not substantially increase the congestion
of the public streets, or increase the danger of fire, or be detrimental to the
public welfare or public safety.
      8.   The requested variance is the minimum action required to eliminate
the practical difficulties.
      9.   Variances may not be approved for any use that is not allowed under
this title for property in the zone where the affected person's land is located
except that the temporary use of a one- family dwelling as a two-family
dwelling may be authorized by variance.
   (D)   Upon appeal of a decision by the board of adjustment, the zoning
officer shall set a public hearing, transmit the application directly to the
city council, and mail a notice to the board of adjustment and property owners
adjacent to the subject property disregarding public rights of way. The city
council shall, within sixty (60) days of the public hearing, decide to affirm
or overturn the decision of the board of adjustment with a four-fifths (4/5)
vote of the city council. (Ord. 011-642, 12-19-2011)
10-3-7: INTERIM USES:
   (A)   Permission And Conditions: The city council, after receiving a
recommendation from the planning commission, may grant permission and set
conditions for an interim use of property if:
      1.   The use conforms to the zoning regulations, performance standards
and other requirements;
      2.   The use meets the standards of a conditional use permit set forth in
section
10-3-5 of this chapter;
      3.   The date or event that will terminate the use can be identified with
certainty;
      4.   The use will not impose additional costs on the public if it is
necessary for the public to take the property in the future; and
      5.   The use will be subjected to, by agreement with the owner, any
conditions that the city has deemed appropriate for permission of the use,
including a condition that the owner will provide an appropriate financial
surety to cover the cost of removing the interim use and an interim structure
upon the expiration of the interim use permit.
   (B)   Termination: An interim use permit shall terminate upon the occurrence
of any of the following events, whichever occurs first:
      1.   The date stated in the permit; or
      2.   A violation of conditions under which the permit was issued; or
      3.   A change in the city's zoning regulations which renders the use
nonconforming as provided in section
10-4-2 of this title; or
      4.   Redevelopment of the use and property upon which it is located to a
permitted or conditional use as allowed within the respective zoning districts.
   (C)   Procedure: Uses defined as "interim uses" shall be processed according
to the standards and procedures for zoning amendments as provided for in
section
10-3-12 of this chapter.
   (D)   Denial Of Permit: No application for an interim use which has been
denied wholly or in part by the city council shall be resubmitted for a period
of six (6) months from the date of said order of denial, except on grounds of
new evidence or proof of change of conditions found to be valid by the city
council. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 023-776, 9-18-2023)
10-3-8: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS:
The board of adjustment may authorize a permit to move structures into or
within the city in accordance with the criteria and provisions listed herein:
   (A)   Applications will be filed with the zoning officer who shall set a
public hearing, transmit the application directly to the board of adjustment
and mail a notice to property owners adjacent to the subject property,
disregarding public rights of way. Failure of such owners to receive notice
shall not invalidate the proceedings. The application shall consist of:
      1.   An application fee in an amount equal to that set by the city
council.
      2.   Six (6) copies of a site plan and supporting data which show the
size, proposed location of the structure and topography of the site.
      3.   A list of the streets on, over or through which said structure will
be moved.
      4.   Photographs showing front, rear and side views of the structure.
   (B)   Upon a filing of an application, the zoning officer shall cause the
building inspector to investigate the building and report to him the results of
the investigation together with recommended action thereon.
   (C)   No permit shall be issued to move any building or structure which, in
the opinion of the zoning officer:
      1.   Is constructed or in such condition as to be dangerous.
      2.   Is infested with pests or is unsanitary.
      3.   Is unfit for human habitation.
      4.   Is so dilapidated, defective, unsightly or in such disrepair that
its relocation at the proposed site would cause appreciable harm to the
property or improvements in the neighborhood.
   (D)   The board of adjustment may authorize the move of a structure based
upon the evaluation of the following:
      1.   The age of the structure shall be similar to the age of the
structures in the immediate neighborhood.
      2.   The value of the structure shall equal or exceed the value of the
structures in the immediate neighborhood.
      3.   The architecture of the proposed structure shall produce a visual
impression which is consistent with the architecture of the immediate
neighborhood.
      4.   The exterior of the structure shall be completed, upgraded and
landscaped within a time frame established by the board of adjustment, but in
no case shall exceed ninety (90) days.
      5.   There shall not be any storage of structures on any property, public
or private.
      6.   The board of adjustment may attach other conditions as they deem
necessary which preserve the spirit and intent of this title.
   (E)   Before a building permit can be issued, an applicant shall deliver
surety acceptable to the zoning officer in an amount equal to the cost of the
work to be done as estimated by the city building official. In the event the
work is not completed within six (6) months of issuing the permit, the letter
of credit shall be claimed, giving the city the option of completing the work
or demolishing the structure to clear, clean and restore the site, unless an
extension is granted by the city council. In the event that the moving of any
building causes damage to the public streets or other public property, in
addition to any other remedies the city may have, the zoning officer may
require the damage to be repaired with the cost to be deducted from the letter
of credit. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-3-9: APPEALS, FEES:
The board shall have the power to hear and decide appeals from any order,
requirement, decision, grant or refusal made by the zoning officer in the
administration of this zoning title. The fee to be charged for any appeal or
proceeding filed with the board shall be such as is determined by proper action
of the city council. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-3-10: APPEALS TO CITY COUNCIL:
A party may appeal a decision of the zoning board of adjustment when issues of
fact, procedure or other finding made by the board are in dispute. Appeals must
be filed with the city within ten (10) days of the final decision of the board
of adjustment. Building permits shall not be issued after an appeal has been
filed with the planning department. If permits have been issued before an
appeal has been filed, then the permits are suspended and construction and/or
usage shall cease until the city council has made a final determination of the
appeal. The city council shall conduct a hearing within sixty (60) days after
the receipt by city staff of the appeal from an action by the board of
adjustment. As provided in subsection
10-3-7(C) of this chapter, notice of the hearing shall be mailed to property
owners adjacent to the subject property disregarding public rights of way. Any
person may appear and testify at the hearing either in person or by duly
authorized agent or attorney. A fee to be established by resolution of the city
council shall be paid by the appellant at the time the notice of appeal is
filed. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-3-11: INVALIDATION:
If within one year from the date of granting a conditional use or variance,
upon recommendation of the zoning officer, substantial progress has not been
made to implement its purpose, the board of adjustment shall declare the
conditional use or variance null and void.
The board of adjustment shall have the power to authorize changes of lawful
nonconforming uses as follows:
   (A)   A nonconforming use which occupies a portion of a structure may be
extended within such structure as it existed when this zoning title was enacted
but not in violation of the area and yard requirements of the zoning district.
   (B)   A new nonconforming use may be created in an existing structure to
replace a lawful nonconforming use, provided that the owner agrees in writing
that:
      1.   The proposed nonconforming use will entail no structural changes or
additions other than those required for purposes of safety, health and
aesthetics.
      2.   The proposed use will be limited by all provisions of the section of
this title regulating nonconforming uses. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-3-12: AMENDMENTS:
   (A)   Procedure; Filing: This title may be amended whenever the public
necessity and convenience and the general welfare require such amendment.
      1.   Proceedings for amendment of this title shall be initiated by:
            (a)    A petition of the owner or owners of the actual property,
the zoning of which is proposed to be changed;
            (b)    A recommendation of the planning commission; or
            (c)    By action of the city council.
      2.   To defray administrative costs of processing requests for an
amendment to this title, a fee, as established by the city council, shall be
paid by the petitioner.
      3.   All applications for changes in the boundaries of any zoning
district which are initiated by the petition of the owner or owners of the
property, the zoning of which is proposed to be changed, shall be accompanied
by a map or plat showing the lands proposed to be changed and all lands within
three hundred fifty feet (350') of the boundaries of the property proposed to
be rezoned, together with an abstractor's certificate of property owner(s) name
(s) and address(es) within three hundred fifty feet (350') of the outer
boundaries of the property in question.
      4.   Before any amendment is adopted, the planning commission shall hold
at least one public hearing thereon, after a notice of the hearing has been
published in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days before the hearing,
and, in the case of district boundary amendments, after a notice has been
mailed to property owners within three hundred fifty feet (350') of the subject
property. Failure of such owners to receive notice shall not invalidate the
proceedings. Following the hearing, the planning commission shall report its
findings and recommendations on the proposed amendment to the city council. If
no recommendation is transmitted by the planning commission within sixty (60)
days after the hearing, the city council may take action without awaiting such
recommendation.
      5.   Upon filing of such report, the city council may hold such public
hearings upon the amendment. After the conclusion of the hearings, if any, the
city council may adopt the amendment or any part thereof in such form as it
deems advisable. The amendment shall be approved in accordance with the voting
requirements of MSA section 462.357, subdivision 2. The city council shall act
upon the application within sixty (60) days after receiving the recommendation
of the planning commission.
      6.   The council may, by resolution, deny a proposed amendment and
include the findings and reasons for denial in the resolution. The findings
shall outline the ways in which the proposed use fails to meet the standards
and intent of this title and is otherwise injurious to the public health,
safety and welfare.
   (B)   Amendments Adopted: See section
10-5-26 of this title. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-3-13: ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES:
Any violation of this title may be enjoined by the city council through proper
legal channels and any person who violates this title shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof be punished to the maximum as provided
by law. Each day a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-3-14: ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES:
In case any building, structure or land is, or is proposed to be, erected,
constructed, reconstructed, altered, converted, maintained or used in violation
of this title, the city council, in addition to other remedies, may institute
in the name of the city, any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such building structure or land, or to prevent, in
or about such premises, any act, conduct, business or use constituting a
violation. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
FA192   10-04.TXT
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-4-1: General Requirements
10-4-2: Nonconformities
10-4-3: Annexation And Designation Of Land
10-4-4: Uses Not Designated
10-4-5: Height Regulations For Airspace Safety
10-4-6: Heritage Preservation Commission
10-4-7: Opt Out Of Minnesota Statutes Section 462.3593
10-4-1: GENERAL REQUIREMENTS:
   (A)   Lots which abut on more than one street shall provide the required
front yards along each street. Rear yard setbacks shall not be required on
corner lots since side yard setbacks apply.
   (B)   All structures, whether attached to the principal structure or not,
and whether open or closed, including porches, carports, balconies or platforms
above normal grade level, shall not project into any minimum front, side or
rear yard.
   (C)   Any lot of record existing on the effective date (original adoption
date) hereof may be used for the erection of a structure conforming to use
regulations of the district in which it is located, even though its area and
width are less than the minimum requirements of this title.
   (D)   In new residential subdivisions, all structures may be arranged to
include one zero lot line; provided, that no windows or doors open on this side
of the structure. In such lot arrangements, the total side yard requirement may
be placed on one side of the principal structure. Maintenance easements must be
provided as part of the subdivided plat to afford access to the sides and roof
of structures so placed.
   (E)   Rear and side yard lot lines abutting a railroad right of way are
exempt from rear and side yard setbacks in all districts.
   (F)   If underground parking is included as part of townhouse and apartment
developments, a credit of three hundred (300) square feet per unit will be
added for the units provided with basement garages.
   (G)   Single- and two-family dwellings shall be erected over a basement and
include a single car garage of at least three hundred (300) square feet. If a
basement is either not possible or not desired, the construction shall include
a double car garage of at least four hundred forty (440) square feet.
   (H)   Except in the case of a planned unit development, not more than one
principal building or structure shall be located on a platted lot or parcel of
land.
   (I)   Conditions under which solar energy systems will be approved include
findings that:
      1.   The proposed energy system complies with the definition listed in
section
10-2-1 of this title.
      2.   The proposed collector will be unshaded by structures and vegetation
between the hours of nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. and three o'clock (3:00) P.M. on
December 21.
      3.   Solar sky space needs will not adversely restrict the reasonable
economic use of neighboring property to the south.
   (J)   A vehicular access plan shall be required which links every site with
an improved public street or alley before any building permit is issued.
   (K)   The lot coverage of structures within development projects which
include common open space controlled by a neighborhood association shall be
calculated using each unit's share of that common open space. (Ord. 002-469, 2-
19-2002)
   (L)   The minimum front yard setback for all districts adjacent to minor
arterial streets included in the thoroughfare plan of the Farmington
comprehensive plan, except for those located in section 31, range 19, township
114, Dakota County, Minnesota, shall be fifty feet (50') from the planned right
of way line. (Ord. 003-495, 7-7-2003)
10-4-2: NONCONFORMITIES:
   (A)   Purpose: It is the purpose of this section to provide for the
regulation of nonconforming buildings, structures, uses, and lots, and to
specify those requirements, circumstances, and conditions under which
nonconforming buildings, structures, uses, and lots will be operated,
maintained, and regulated. It is necessary and consistent with the
establishment of this chapter that nonconforming buildings, structures, uses,
and lots not be allowed to continue without restriction. Furthermore, it is the
intent of this section that all nonconformities shall be eventually brought
into conformity.
   (B)   General Provisions:
      1.   Subdivision: No parcel of land or portion thereof shall be
subdivided if such action results in buildings, structures, lots or uses
becoming nonconforming.
      2.   Floodplains: Nonconformities in floodplains and shore land areas
shall comply with requirements listed in chapters 5 and 6 of this title,
respectively.
      3.   Continuance Of Legal Nonconformity: Any legal nonconformity,
including the lawful use or occupation of land or premises existing at the time
of adoption of an additional control under this chapter, may be continued,
including through repair, replacement, restoration, maintenance or improvement
but may not be expanded except as permitted by the board of adjustment in
accordance with the provisions of this title, unless:
            (a)    Any nonconforming structure or use damaged by fire, flood,
explosion or other casualty to an extent exceeding fifty percent (50%) of its
fair market value as indicated by the records of the county assessor, and no
building permit has been applied for within one hundred eighty (180) days of
when the property was damaged. In this case, the city may impose reasonable
conditions upon a building permit in order to mitigate any newly created impact
on adjacent property.
            (b)    In the event that any nonconforming use, conducted in a
structure or otherwise, ceases, for whatever reason, for a period of one year
or is abandoned for any period, such nonconforming use shall not be resumed.
      4.   Lawful Nonconformities: Expansions of lawful nonconformities may be
permitted by the board of adjustment provided a variance is approved in
accordance with section
10-3-6 of this title.
      5.   Setbacks: The minimum required setback of a principal structure or a
structure accessory to a principal structure that has a legally nonconforming
setback shall be either the existing setback or the setback as otherwise
specified in this chapter, whichever is less.
      6.   Change From Conforming To Nonconforming: When a legal nonconforming
use of any structure or parcel of land in any district has been changed to a
conforming use, it shall not thereafter be changed to any nonconforming use.
      7.   Change To Reduce Nonconformity: A legal nonconforming use of a
structure or parcel of land may be changed to reduce the nonconformity of use.
Once a nonconforming structure or parcel of land has been changed, it shall not
thereafter be so altered to increase the nonconformity. (Ord. 011-642, 12-19-
2011)
10-4-3: ANNEXATION AND DESIGNATION OF LAND:
   (A)   Land areas which may be added to the city by annexation, merger or
other means shall be classified A-1 agriculture until such time that the city
council may rezone the added territory to more appropriate classifications.
(Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-4-4: USES NOT DESIGNATED:
   (A)   A use not specifically designated as a permitted or conditional use
anywhere in the city is considered prohibited. In such a case, the council,
commission or property owner may request a study by the city to determine if
the use is acceptable and, if so, what zoning district would be most
appropriate for the use and what conditions and standards, if any, should be
attached to the development of the use. If found acceptable, an amendment to
the zoning title may be initiated permitting the use as outlined in chapter 3
of this title. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-4-5: HEIGHT REGULATIONS FOR AIRSPACE SAFETY:
Any person(s) proposing a structure of two hundred feet (200') or more above
ground level located within the city shall notify and obtain the approval of
the Federal Aviation Administration and the Minnesota Department of
Transportation.
(Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 1-16-2024)
10-4-6: HERITAGE PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
This zoning ordinance adopts by reference, the provisions of title 2, chapter
11 of this code as they may relate to this title. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-4-7: OPT OUT OF MINNESOTA STATUTES SECTION 462.3593:
Pursuant to authority granted by Minnesota statutes section 462.3593,
subdivision 9, the city of Farmington opts out of the requirements of Minnesota
statutes section 462.3593. (Ord. 016-715, 9-6-2016)
FA192   10-5.txt
CHAPTER 5
DISTRICTS AND DISTRICT PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Zoning Map
10-5-2: Zoning Districts
10-5-3: District Boundaries
10-5-4: District Requirements
10-5-5: A-1 Agriculture District
10-5-6: R-1 Low Density Residential District
10-5-7: R-2 Low/Medium Density Residential District
10-5-8: R-3 Medium Density Residential District
10-5-9: R-4 High Density Residential District
10-5-10: R-D Downtown Residential District
10-5-11: B-1 Highway Business District
10-5-12: B-2 Downtown Business District
10-5-13: B-3 General Business District
10-5-14: SSMU Spruce Street Mixed Use District
10-5-15: MUCI - Mixed Use Commercial/Industrial District
10-5-16: MUCR Mixed Use Commercial/Residential District
10-5-17: I Industrial District
10-5-18: P/OS Parks And Open Space District
10-5-19: Planned Unit Development Overlay
10-5-20: Floodplain Overlay District
10-5-21: Amendments Adopted
10-5-22: Downtown Commercial Overlay (DC-O) District
10-5-23: Highway 3 Overlay (HW3-O) District
10-5-24: Spruce Street Overlay (SS-O) District
10-5-1: ZONING MAP:
A map entitled zoning map, city of Farmington, is hereby adopted as part of
this title. All notations, references and data shown thereon are hereby
incorporated by reference into this title. It remains on file at the office of
the zoning officer. A reduced copy of this map shall be attached to and become
a part of each zoning ordinance. It shall be the duty of the city planner to
maintain said map, and all amendments thereto shall be recorded within ninety
(90) days of official publication. Explanatory material for the zoning map
includes the "Flood Insurance Study For Dakota County, Minnesota And
Incorporated Areas" prepared by the federal emergency management agency dated
December 2, 2011, and the flood insurance rate map panels therein as adopted by
reference in subsection
10-5-20(D)1 of this chapter. This material is hereby adopted by reference,
declared to be a part of this title and on file and available for inspection at
the office of the zoning officer. (Ord. 011-640, 11-7-2011; amd. Ord. 021-762,
8-16-2021)
10-5-2: ZONING DISTRICTS:
The city is divided into the following base and overlay districts shown by the
district boundaries on the zoning map. The base districts are:
A-1 Agriculture
R-1 Low density residential
R-2 Low/medium density residential
R-3 Medium density residential
R-4 High density residential
R-D Downtown residential
B-1 Highway business
B-2 Downtown business
B-3 General business
SSMU Spruce Street mixed-use
MUCI Mixed use commercial/industrial
MUCR Mixed use commercial/residential
I Industrial
P/OS Parks and open space
 
The overlay districts are:
 
PUD Planned unit development overlay
Floodplain overlay
DC-O Downtown commercial overlay
HW3-O Highway 3 overlay
SS-O Spruce Street overlay
 
(Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 002-472, 5-6-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003;
Ord. 005-526, 3-21-2005; Ord. 009-613, 10-19-2009; Ord. 009-614, 10-19-2009;
Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021)
10-5-3: DISTRICT BOUNDARIES:
District boundaries shown within the lines of the roads, streams and
transportation rights of way shall be deemed to follow the centerlines. The
vacation of roads shall not affect the location of such district boundaries.
When the zoning officer cannot definitely determine the location of a district
boundary by such centerlines, by the scale or dimensions stated on the zoning
map or by the fact that it clearly coincides with a property line, he shall
refuse action and the Board of Adjustment, upon appeal, shall interpret the
location of the district boundary with reference to the scale of the zoning map
and the purposes set forth in all relevant provisions of this title.
Where a district boundary line divides a lot of record into two (2) or more
districts, any portion of the lot within fifty feet (50') of such division may
be used for any use of either district as approved by the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-5-4: DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS:
Except for planned unit developments, all buildings and uses in each district
shall be subject to the requirements listed under chapters 3 through 6 of this
title. Planned unit development standards may be applied to any residential
district at the request of the landowner and at the discretion of the City
Council. Where planned unit development standards differ from the original
district standards, the planned unit development standards shall apply. (Ord.
002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-5-5: A-1 AGRICULTURE DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The A-1 Agriculture District is intended to preserve the
City's agricultural uses in order to protect farms, to maintain the City's
small town character and to create an urban reserve for such time when there is
a need for additional urban development and public utilities may be extended.
   (B)   Bulk And Density Standards:
      1.   Minimum Standards:
 
Lot area           40 acres
Lot width          150 feet
Front yard setback 50 feet
Side yard setback  20 feet
Rear yard setback  20 feet
Height (maximum)   35 feet
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
      2.   Accessory Structure Standards:
 
Front yard setback 50 feet
Side yard setback  20 feet
Rear yard setback  20 feet
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
      3.   Additional Accessory Use Standards:
         (a)   Feedlots, fenced runs, pens and similar intensively used
facilities for animal raising and care shall not be located within three
hundred feet (300') of a neighboring property.
         (b)   Roadside stands used exclusively for the sale of locally grown
agricultural products shall be permitted if:
            (1)   They are erected at least fifty feet (50') from the nearest
edge of roadway surface.
            (2)   Parking space is provided off the road right-of-way.
   (C)   Uses:
      1.   Permitted:
      Agriculture.
      Single-unit detached dwelling.
      Greenhouses and nurseries, commercial.
      Public parks and playgrounds.
      Recreational vehicle storage facilities.
      Seasonal produce stands.
      Specialized animal raising facilities.
      Truck gardening.
      2.   Conditional:
      Agricultural services.
      Cannabis cultivation, indoor.
      Cannabis cultivation, outdoor.
      Cemeteries.
      Commercial recreational uses.
      Community solar gardens.
      Equipment maintenance and storage facilities.
      Feedlots.
      Golf courses.
      Mineral extraction.
      Places of worship.
      Public and parochial schools.
      Public buildings and facilities.
      Public utility buildings.
      Stables and riding academies.
      Towers.
      3.   Accessory:
      Accessory apartment.
      Accessory structures.
      Daycare facilities, in home.
      Home occupations.
      Kennels, residential hobby.
      Solar energy systems.
      4.   Interim:
      Soil pulverizing operation.
(Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 018-737, 3-19-2018; Ord. 021-761, 8-16-
2021; Ord. 2024-13, 12-16-2024)
10-5-6: R-1 LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The R-1 Low Density Residential District provides for low
density residential development with single-unit detached dwellings on larger
lots.
   (B)   Bulk And Density Standards:
      1.   Standards:
Lot area:
Single-unit detached dwelling          10,000 square feet
Other                                  17,000 square feet
Lot width                              75 feet
Front yard setback                     20 feet
Side yard setback                      6 feet
Rear yard setback                      6 feet
Height (maximum)                       35 feet
Maximum lot coverage of all structures 30 percent
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted. (Ord. 009-610, 10-19-2009)
      2.   Accessory Structure Standards: Accessory structures must be located
behind principal structure in the side or rear yard according to the following
requirements:
Maximum size:                     
Detached garages:                 
Lots up to 0.5 acre              Lesser of 1,000 square feet or square feet of
                                 principal structure
Lots 0.5 to 1 acre               Lesser of 1,250 square feet or square feet of
                                 principal structure
Lots 1.0 acre +                  Lesser of 1,500 square feet or square feet of
                                 principal structure
Storage shed                     240 square feet
Building permit                  Any accessory structure over 200 square feet
                                 requires a building permit
Building material                The detached garage shall be constructed of
                                 similar materials as the principal structure
Maximum number                   1 of each type of structure provided it is not
                                 over approved lot coverage
Side yard setback                6 feet
Rear yard setback                6 feet
Height (maximum) storage shed    12 feet
Height (maximum) detached garage 20 feet
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted. (Ord. 015-693a, 4-20-2015)
      3.   Minor Arterial Setbacks: The minimum front yard setback for all land
adjacent to minor arterial streets shall be fifty feet (50') from the planned
right of way line.
   (C)   Uses:
      1.   Permitted:
      Agriculture.
      Single-unit detached dwelling.
      Group daycare, twelve (12) or fewer persons.
      Group home, six (6) or fewer persons.
      Manufactured home.
      Public parks and playgrounds. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
      2.   Conditional:
      Bed and breakfast.
      Cemeteries.
      Golf courses.
      Limited commercial venture.
      Places of worship.
      Public and parochial schools.
      Public buildings.
      Public utility buildings. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 002-483,
12-2-2002; Ord. 014-669, 9-2-2014)
      3.   Accessory:
      Accessory structures.
      Daycare facilities, in home.
      Home occupations.
      Solar energy systems. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 021-761, 8-16-
2021)
10-5-7: R-2 LOW/MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The R-2 Low/Medium Density Residential District provides for
a mix of low and medium density residential development including single-unit
and two-unit dwellings on smaller lots.
   (B)   Bulk And Density Standards:
      1.   Standards:
Lot area:
Single-unit detached dwelling          6,000 square feet
Twin home dwelling                     5,500 square feet per unit
Two-unit dwelling                      11,000 square feet
                                       (5,500 square feet per unit)
Other                                  11,000 square feet
Lot width*:
Single-unit detached dwelling          60 feet
Twin home dwelling                     37.5 feet
Two-unit dwelling                      75 feet
Other                                  75 feet
Front yard setback                     20 feet
Side yard setback                      6 feet (or 0 feet for shared wall)
Rear yard setback:
With alley                             10 feet
Without alley                          6 feet
Height (maximum)                       35 feet
Maximum lot coverage of all structures 35 percent
 
*Corner lots shall have a minimum lot width of the standard listed plus the
front yard setback
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
      2.   Accessory Structure Standards: Accessory structures must be located
behind principal structure in the side or rear yard according to the following
requirements:
Maximum size:                     
Detached garages:                 
Lots up to 0.5 acre              Lesser of 1,000 square feet or square feet of
                                 principal structure
Lots 0.5 to 1 acre               Lesser of 1,250 square feet or square feet of
                                 principal structure
Lots 1.0 acre +                  Lesser of 1,500 square feet or square feet of
                                 principal structure
Storage shed                     240 square feet
Apartment                        1,800 square feet
Building permit                  Any accessory structure over 200 square feet
                                 requires a building permit
Building material                The detached garage shall be constructed of
                                 similar materials as the principal structure
Maximum number                   1 of each type of structure provided it is not
                                 over approved lot coverage
Side yard setback                6 feet
Rear yard setback:                
With alley                       10 feet
Without alley                    3 feet
Height (maximum) storage shed    12 feet
Height (maximum) detached garage 20 feet
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
      3.   Minor Arterial Setbacks: The minimum front yard setback for all land
adjacent to minor arterial streets shall be fifty feet (50') from the planned
right of way line.
   (C)   Uses:
      1.   Permitted:
      Single-unit detached dwelling.
      Twin home dwelling.
      Two-unit dwelling.
      Group daycare, twelve (12) or fewer persons.
      Group home, six (6) or fewer persons.
      Manufactured home.
      Public parks and playgrounds.
      2.   Conditional:
      Bed and breakfast.
      Cemeteries.
      Clinics.
      Funeral homes.
      Hospitals.
      Limited commercial venture.
      Places of worship.
      Public and parochial schools.
      Public buildings.
      Public utility buildings.
      Senior care facilities.
      3.   Accessory:
      Accessory apartment.
      Accessory structures.
      Daycare facilities, in home.
      Home occupations.
      Solar energy systems.
(Ord. 012-650, 10-15-2012; amd. Ord. 014-669, 9-2-2014; Ord. 015-693a, 4-20-
2015; Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021; Ord. 2024-03, 2-20-2024)
10-5-8: R-3 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The R-3 Medium Density Residential District provides for
medium density residential development with attached housing types in areas
with convenient access to jobs, services, public facilities and transit.
   (B)   Bulk And Density Standards:
      1.   Standards:
Lot area:                                     
Twin home, two-unit, and three- to four-unit 5,500 square feet per unit
dwellings
Townhouse dwellings                          3,000 square feet per unit
Other                                        17,000 square feet
Lot width*:                                   
Twin home, two-unit, and three- to four-unit 37.5 feet per unit
dwellings
Townhouse dwellings                          24 feet per unit
Other                                         
Front yard setback                           25 feet
Side yard setback                            10 feet
Rear yard setback                            10 feet
Height (maximum)                             45 feet
Maximum lot coverage of all structures       30 percent
 
*Corner lots shall have a minimum lot width of the standard listed plus the
front yard setback
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
      2.   Accessory Structure Standards: Accessory structures must be located
behind principal structure in the side or rear yard according to the following
requirements:
Maximum size:                     
Detached garages                 Lesser of 1,000 square feet or square feet of
                                 principal structure
Storage shed                     240 square feet
Apartment                        1,800 square feet
Building permit                  Any accessory structure over 200 square feet
                                 requires a building permit
Building material                The detached garage shall be constructed of
                                 similar materials as the principal structure
Maximum number                   1 of each type of structure provided it is not
                                 over approved lot coverage
Side yard setback                6 feet
Rear yard setback                3 feet
Height (maximum) storage shed    12 feet
Height (maximum) detached garage 20 feet
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
      3.   Minor Arterial Setbacks: The minimum front yard setback for all land
adjacent to minor arterial streets shall be fifty feet (50') from the planned
right of way line.
   (C)   Uses:
      1.   Permitted:
      Twin home dwellings.
      Two-unit dwellings.
      Three- to four-unit dwellings.
      Townhouse dwellings.
      Group daycare, twelve (12) or less persons.
      Group home, six (6) or less persons.
      Public parks and playgrounds.
      2.   Conditional:
      Group daycare, thirteen (13) to sixteen (16) persons.
      Group home, seven (7) to sixteen (16) persons.
      Limited commercial venture.
      Places of worship.
      Public and parochial schools.
      Public buildings.
      Public utility buildings.
      Senior care facility.
      3.   Accessory:
      Accessory structures.
      Daycare facilities, in home.
      Home occupations.
      Solar energy systems.
(Ord. 012-651, 10-15-2012; amd. Ord. 014-669, 9-2-2014; Ord. 015-693a, 4-20-
2015; Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021; Ord. 2024-03, 2-20-2024)
10-5-9: R-4 HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The R-4 High Density Residential District provides for high
density residential development with attached and multiple-unit housing types
in areas with convenient access to jobs, services, public facilities and
transit.
   (B)   Bulk And Density Standards:
      1.   Standards:
Lot area:                                       
   Townhouse and three- to four-unit dwellin2,400 square feet per unit
   Apartment dwellings                      1,100 square feet per unit
   Other                                    40,000 square feet
Lot width:                                      
   Townhouse and three- to four-unit dwellin24 feet per unit
   Apartment dwellings                      100 feet
   Other                                    100 feet
Front yard setback                             25 feet
Side yard setback                              10 feet
Rear yard setback                              10 feet
Height (maximum)                               45 feet
Maximum lot coverage of all structures         30 percent
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
      2.   Accessory Structure Standards: Accessory structures must be located
behind principal structure in the side or rear yard according to the following
requirements:
Maximum size:                     
Detached garages                 Lesser of 1,000 square feet or square feet of
                                 principal structure
Storage shed                     240 square feet
Apartment                        1,800 square feet
Building permit                  Any accessory structure over 200 square feet
                                 requires a building permit
Building material                The detached garage shall be constructed of
                                 similar materials as the principal structure
Maximum number                   1 of each type of structure provided it is not
                                 over approved lot coverage
Side yard setback                6 feet
Rear yard setback                6 feet
Height (maximum) storage shed    12 feet
Height (maximum) detached garage 20 feet
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
      3.   Minor Arterial Setbacks: The minimum front yard setback for all land
adjacent to minor arterial streets shall be fifty feet (50') from the planned
right of way line.
   (C)   Uses:
      1.   Permitted:
      Townhouse dwellings.
      Apartment dwellings.
      Group daycare, twelve (12) or less persons.
      Group home, six (6) or less persons.
      Public parks and playgrounds.
      2.   Conditional:
      Child daycare center, commercial.
      Clinics.
      Clubs.
      Funeral homes.
      Group daycare, thirteen (13) to sixteen (16) persons.
      Group home, seven (7) to sixteen (16) persons.
      Hospitals.
      Limited commercial venture.
      Places of worship.
      Public and parochial schools.
      Public buildings.
      Public utility buildings.
      Senior care facility.
      3.   Accessory:
      Accessory apartment.
      Accessory structures.
      Daycare facilities, in home.
      Home occupations.
      Solar energy systems.
(Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 003-484, 1-21-2003; Ord. 009-610, 10-19-
2009; Ord. 014-669, 9-2-2014; Ord. 015-693a, 4-20-2015; Ord. 021-761, 8-16-
2021; Ord. 2024-03, 2-20-2024)
10-5-10: R-D DOWNTOWN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The R-D Downtown Residential District recognizes the
development patterns of the original residential areas of Farmington adjacent
to the downtown. The R-D district is intended to accommodate existing single-
unit, two-unit and multi-unit residential development and promote infill
development and redevelopment with a mix of housing types in order to
strengthen the downtown, create pedestrian friendly neighborhoods, and decrease
the need for automobile use through mixed uses.
   (B)   Bulk And Density Standards:
      1.   Standards:
Lot area:                                     
Single-unit detached dwelling                6,000 square feet
Twin home, two-unit, and three- to four-unit 5,500 square feet per unit
dwellings
Townhouse dwellings                          2,400 square feet per unit
Apartment dwellings                          1,100 square feet per unit
Other                                        11,000 square feet</ce>
Lot width:                                    
Single-unit detached dwelling                60 feet
Twin home, two-unit, and three- to four-unit 37.5 feet per unit
dwellings
Townhouse dwellings                          24 feet per unit
Apartment dwellings                          60 feet
Other                                        75 feet
Front yard setback                           20 feet
Side yard setback                            6 feet
Rear yard setback:                            
With alley                                   10 feet
Without alley                                6 feet
Height (maximum)                             35 feet
Maximum lot coverage of all structures       35 percent
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted. (Ord. 009-610, 10-19-2009)
      2.   Accessory Structure Standards: Accessory structures must be located
behind principal structure in the side or rear yard according to the following
requirements:
Maximum size:                     
Detached garages                 Lesser of 1,000 square feet or square feet of
                                 principal structure
Storage shed                     240 square feet
Apartment                        1,800 square feet
Building permit                  Any accessory structure over 200 square feet
                                 requires a building permit
Building material                The detached garage shall be constructed of
                                 similar materials as the principal structure
Maximum number                   1 of each type of structure provided it is not
                                 over approved lot coverage
Side yard setback                3 feet
Rear yard setback:                
With alley                       10 feet
Without alley                    3 feet
Height (maximum) storage shed    12 feet
Height (maximum) detached garage 20 feet
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted. (Ord. 015-693a, 4-20-2015)
   (C)   Uses:
      1.   Permitted:
      Single-unit detached dwellings.
      Twin home dwellings.
      Two-unit dwellings.
      Group daycare, twelve (12) or less persons.
      Group home, six (6) or less persons.
      Manufactured home.
      Public parks and playgrounds. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
      2.   Conditional:
      Bed and breakfast.
      Clinics.
      Clubs.
      Townhouse dwellings.
      Apartment dwellings.
      Funeral homes.
      Group daycare, thirteen (13) to sixteen (16) persons.
      Limited commercial venture.
      Offices.
      Places of worship.
      Public buildings.
      Public utility buildings. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 002-483,
12-2-2002; Ord. 014-669, 9-2-2014)
      3.   Accessory:
      Accessory structures.
      Daycare facilities, in home.
      Home occupations.
      Solar energy systems. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 021- 761, 8-16-
2021)
10-5-11: B-1 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The B-1 Highway Business District is intended to provide
nodes of commercial uses along major roadways that are both pedestrian
accessible from adjoining neighborhoods and automobile accessible for short
trips and through traffic.
   (B)   Bulk And Density Standards:
      1.   Minimum Standards:
Lot area                                                    10,000 square feet
Lot width                                                   75 feet
Front yard setback                                          30 feet
Side yard setback                                           10 feet
Rear yard setback                                           10 feet
Minimum side and rear yard abutting any residential          
district:
Off street parking and access drives                        10 feet
Public and semipublic buildings                             35 feet
Recreational, entertainment, commercial and industrial uses 50 feet
Height (maximum)                                            35 feet
Maximum lot coverage of all structures                      40 percent
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
   (C)   Uses:
      1.   Permitted:
      Animal clinics.
      Clinics.
      Clubs.
      Coffee shops.
      Commercial services.
      Commercial recreational uses.
      Convenience store, without gas.
      Data centers.
      Health clubs.
      Hotels.
      Mixed use building.
      Motels.
      Offices.
      Personal and professional services.
      Personal health and beauty services.
      Recreation equipment sales/service/repair.
      Restaurants, Class I, traditional.
      Retail facilities.
      Retail sales and services.
      2.   Conditional:
      Auction houses.
      Brewpubs.
      Cannabis retail.
      Car washes.
      Child daycare center, commercial.
      Convenience store, with gas.
      Dental laboratories.
      Grocery stores.
      Group daycare centers, commercial.
      Hospitals.
      Kennels, commercial.
      Lower potency hemp edible retail.
      Outdoor sales.
      Public buildings.
      Public utility buildings.
      Restaurants, Class II, fast food, convenience.
      Restaurants, Class III, with liquor service.
      Restaurants, Class IV, nonintoxicating.
      Senior care facility.
      Solar energy systems.
      Supply yards.
      Theaters.
      Wholesale businesses.
      3.   Accessory:
      Parking lots.
      Sexual oriented businesses - accessory.
(Ord. 015-706, 10-19-2015; amd. Ord. 018-737, 3-19-2018; Ord. 021-761, 8-16-
2021; Ord. 2024-03, 2-20-2024; Ord. 2024-13, 12-16-2024)
10-5-12: B-2 DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The B-2 Downtown Business District identifies a variety of
general commercial and higher density residential uses for the downtown area in
order to expand and strengthen the downtown as the primary commercial district
for the city, create a pedestrian friendly downtown, and promote the city as a
cultural center. Objectives of this district are to preserve historical
buildings, require high design standards, and provide a diverse mix of
community oriented commercial and cultural activities that are pedestrian
oriented and accessible to area residents.
   (B)   Bulk And Density Standards:
      1.   Minimum Standards:
 
Lot area                               None
Lot width                              None
Front yard setback                     0 feet
Side yard setback                      0 feet
Rear yard setback                      0 feet
Height (maximum)                       45 feet
Maximum lot coverage of all structures 100 percent
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
   (C)   Uses:
      1.   Permitted:
      Animal clinics.
      Breweries.
      Clinics.
      Clubs.
      Coffee shops.
      Commercial recreational uses.
      Commercial services.
      Distilleries.
      Microdistilleries.
      Neighborhood services.
      Nonprofit recreational, cultural and entertainment uses.
      Offices.
      Personal and professional services.
      Personal health and beauty services.
      Public buildings.
      Recreation equipment sales/service/repair.
      Restaurants, class I, traditional.
      Retail sales sand services.
      Small breweries.
      2.   Conditional:
      Apartment dwellings.
      Apartment/commercial dwellings.
      Auto repair, major.
      Auto repair, minor.
      Bed and breakfast.
      Brewpubs.
      Cannabis retail.
      Child daycare center, commercial.
      Convenience store, with gas.
      Dental laboratories.
      Funeral homes.
      Grocery stores.
      Hotels.
      Lower potency hemp edible retail.
      Mixed use building.
      Motels.
      Outdoor sales.
      Places of worship.
      Public and parochial schools.
      Public utility buildings.
      Restaurants, Class II, fast food, convenience.
      Restaurants, Class III, with liquor service.
      Restaurants, Class IV, nonintoxicating.
      Solar energy systems.
      Theaters.
      3.   Accessory:
      Parking lots.
      Cocktail rooms as accessory to a microdistillery.
      Sexually oriented businesses - accessory.
      Taprooms as accessory to a brewery or small brewery.
(Ord. 017-724, 4-17-2017; amd. Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021; Ord. 2024-03, 2-20-
2024; Ord. 2024-13, 12-16-2024)
10-5-13: B-3 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The B-3 General Business District accommodates existing areas
with commercial and industrial businesses that incorporate site design measures
to ensure their compatibility with adjacent properties.
   (B)   Bulk And Density Standards:
      1.   Minimum Standards:
Lot area                                                      5,000 square feet
Lot width                                                     50 feet
Front yard setback                                            20 feet
Side yard setback                                             6 feet
Rear yard setback                                             6 feet
Minimum side and rear yard abutting any residential district:
Off street parking and access drives                          10 feet
Public and semipublic buildings                               35 feet
Recreational, entertainment, commercial and industrial uses   50 feet
Height (maximum)                                              45 feet
Maximum lot coverage of all structures                        35 percent
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
   (C)   Uses:
      1.   Permitted:
      Animal clinics.
      Auto repair, minor.
      Auto sales.
      Breweries.
      Commercial services.
      Convenience store without gas.
      Data centers.
      Distilleries.
      Light manufacturing facilities.
      Mechanical sales, service and repair.
      Microdistilleries.
      Offices.
      Public buildings.
      Restaurants, Class I, traditional.
      Retail sales and services.
      Sexually oriented businesses - accessory.
      Small breweries.
      Supply yards.
      Truck terminals.
      Wholesale businesses.
      2.   Conditional:
      Auto repair, major.
      Cannabis retail.
      Car washes.
      Cocktail rooms as accessory to a microdistillery.
      Convenience store with gas.
      Greenhouses and nurseries, commercial.
      Group daycare center, commercial.
      Home and trailer sales/display.
      Impound lot.
      Kennels, commercial.
      Lower potency hemp edible retail.
      Manufacturing facilities.
      Mini-storage units.
      Outdoor sales.
      Petroleum bulk storage.
      Public utility buildings.
      Recreational vehicle storage facilities.
      Solar energy systems.
      Taprooms as accessory to a brewery or small brewery.
      Warehousing facilities.
      3.   Accessory:
      Parking lots.
(Ord. 017-725, 4-17-2017; amd. Ord. 018-737, 3-19-2018; Ord. 021-761, 8-16-
2021; Ord. 2024-03, 2-20-2024; Ord. 2024-13, 12-16-2024)
10-5-14: SSMU SPRUCE STREET MIXED USE DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The SSMU Spruce Street mixed use district is primarily
designated for commercial retail sales and services. This district is not
intended to compete with the businesses in the central business district;
rather, it is intended to provide a location for those businesses that have
space needs that cannot be accommodated in the downtown or would be a
disruption to existing development patterns. Development in this district will
provide design elements and building and site relationships that emulate
traditional main street form to create a walkable pedestrian friendly
environment with connections to surrounding areas. The relationship of the
Spruce Street mixed use district to CSAH 50, future residential development,
and the central business district will require a greater sensitivity to design
with higher quality standards in order to develop a pleasant, attractive and
aesthetically pleasing environment.
   (B)   Bulk And Density Standards:
 
Lot area           1 acre
Lot width          100 feet
Front yard setback At least 50 percent of the building front shall be within 20
                   feet of the public right of way or private street edge
Side yard setback  No requirement
Rear yard setback  20 feet
Height (maximum)   40 feet
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
   (C)   Uses:
      1.   Permitted:
      Child daycare center, commercial.
      Clinic.
      Commercial recreation, indoor.
      Commercial services.
      Data centers.
      Health clubs.
      Personal and professional services.
      Personal health and beauty.
      Restaurants, class I, traditional.
      Retail sales and services.
      2.   Conditional:
      Brewpubs.
      Cannabis retail.
      Commercial recreation, outdoor.
      Convenience stores, with gas.
      Dwelling, apartment.
      Grocery stores.
      Hotels and motels.
      Lower potency hemp edible retail.
      Major auto repair (confined to the interior of principal building).
      Minor auto repair.
      Mixed use buildings (shall include office, retail, or commercial uses on
at least 1 floor and residential apartments or condominiums on upper floors).
      Public buildings.
      Public utility buildings.
      Restaurants, class II, fast food, convenience.
      Restaurants, class III, with liquor service.
      Theaters.
      3.   Accessory:
      Parking lots.
      4.   Interim:
      Mineral extraction.
(Ord. 015-712, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 021- 761, 8-16-2021; Ord. 2024-03, 2-20-
2024; Ord. 2024-13, 12-16-2024)
10-5-15: MUCI - MIXED USE COMMERCIAL/INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The MUCI Mixed Use Commercial/Industrial District provides
for the development of larger mixed business areas along major roadways,
including services, offices, research laboratories, and light manufacturing
uses without any exterior activities, as well as compatible commercial uses.
This district is intended to be flexible to accommodate a mix of non-
residential uses and development formats.
   (B)   Bulk And Density Standards:
 
Lot area           1 acre
Lot width          100 feet
Front yard setback No requirement
Side yard setback  No requirement
Rear yard setback  20 feet
Height (maximum)   40 feet
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
   (C)   Uses:
      1.   Permitted:
      Child daycare facility, commercial.
      Commercial recreation, indoor.
      Data centers.
      Health clubs.
      Hotels.
      Offices.
      Research laboratories.
      Restaurants, class I, traditional.
      Retail sales and services.
      Warehousing facilities.
      2.   Conditional:
      Brewpubs.
      Cannabis retail.
      Convenience store, with gas.
      Dental laboratories.
      Grocery stores.
      Hotels and motels.
      Lower potency hemp edible retail.
      Motels.
      Public utility buildings.
      Restaurants, class II, fast food, convenience.
      Restaurants, class III, with liquor service.
      Theaters.
      3.   Accessory:
      Parking lots.
      4.   Interim:
      Mineral extraction.
(Ord. 015-712, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 021- 761, 8-16-2021; Ord. 2024-03, 2-20-
2024; Ord. 2024-13, 12-16-2024)
10-5-16: MUCR MIXED USE COMMERCIAL/RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The MUCR Mixed Use Commercial/Residential District is
established to provide a flexible framework for the creation of high quality,
comprehensively designed commercial neighborhood development with a multiple-
family component. A variety of developments are encouraged, with developments
designed to promote walking, bicycling and potential transit use.
   (B)   Bulk And Density Standards:
      1.   Standards:
Lot area                                  5,000 square feet
Lot width                                 50 feet
Front yard setback                        0 feet
Side yard setback                         0 feet
Rear yard setback                         0 feet
Structure setback from TH 3 right of way  30 feet
Structure setback from CR 64 right of way 30 feet
Height (maximum)                          45 feet
Maximum lot coverage of all structures    100 percent
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
   (C)   Uses:
      1.   Permitted:
      Coffee shops.
      Neighborhood services.
      Nonprofit recreational, cultural and entertainment uses.
      Offices.
      Personal and professional services, less than 3,000 square feet.
      Personal health and beauty services, less than 3,000 square feet.
      Restaurants, class I, traditional.
      Restaurants, Class IV, nonintoxicating.
      2.   Conditional:
      Animal clinics.
      Brewpubs.
      Child daycare facilities, commercial.
      Clinics.
      Commercial recreation, indoor.
      Convenience store, with gas.
      Dwelling, apartment.
      Funeral homes.
      Health clubs.
      Hotels.
      Mixed use building.
      Personal and professional services, greater than three thousand (3,000)
square feet.
      Personal health and beauty services, greater than three thousand (3,000)
square feet.
      Places of worship.
      Public utility buildings.
      Restaurants, Class II, fast food, convenience.
      Restaurants, Class III, with liquor service.
      Retail sales and services.
      Theaters.
      3.   Accessory:
      Parking lots.
(Ord. 015-712, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021; Ord. 2024-03, 2-20-
2024)
10-5-17: I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The I Industrial District provides areas for existing and
future industrial uses and promotes high quality architectural, landscaping and
site plan development standards in order to increase the City's tax base and
employment opportunities. This district requires that exterior industrial
activities and storage are limited and fully screened to minimize impacts on
adjacent properties and public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Lot And Building Standards:
      1.   Principal Use Dimensional Standards:
Lot area                                                    40,000 square feet
Lot width                                                   150 feet
Front yard setback                                          50 feet
Side yard setback                                           25 feet
If two (2) or more industrial lots are developed as one     0 feet
site, the interior common lot line shall be ignored
Rear yard setback                                           25 feet
Minimum side and rear yard abutting any residential
district:
Off street parking and access drives                        10 feet
Public and semipublic buildings                             35 feet
Recreational, entertainment, commercial and industrial uses 50 feet
Height (maximum)                                            45 feet
Maximum lot coverage of all structures                      35 percent
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
      2.   Accessory Use Dimensional Standards:
         (a)   Outdoor storage areas shall not encroach into a required front
yard setback or on a corner lot within the side yard setback area.
      3.   Building Design Standards:
         (a)   Applicability: All new construction, renovations or additions of
existing industrial buildings. Exempt projects are those industrial buildings
comprised of any of the following project types:
            (1)   Interior remodels;
            (2)   Buildings being entirely used as residential;
            (3)   Normal or routine maintenance and repair of existing
structures;
            (4)   Any type of construction that does not require a building
permit.
         (b)   Process: Building design standards will be administered through
the site plan process in section
10-6-23 of this chapter.
         (c)   Exterior Walls: Exterior walls of buildings to be constructed
shall consist of one or more of the following materials and shall receive prior
approval of the city:
            (1)   Brick: Size, type, texture, color and placement shall be
approved.
            (2)   Stone: Stone shall have a weathered face or shall be
polished, fluted or broken face.
            (3)   Concrete Masonry Block: Concrete masonry block shall be those
generally described as "customized architectural concrete masonry units" or
shall be broken faced brick type units with marble aggregate. All concrete
masonry units shall be coated or veneered and approved by the city. There shall
be no exposed concrete block on the exterior of any building unless approved by
the city.
            (4)   Concrete: Concrete may be poured in place, tilt-up or
precast: and shall be finished in stone, brick, textured or coated, with a
minimum life expectancy of ten (10) years.
         (d)   Alternate Materials: Alternate exterior surface materials of
pre-engineered metal may be substituted in an amount not to exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the exterior wall surface area of each building and the pre-
engineered metal shall only be installed on the upper half portion of the
building. Other conditions are as follows:
            (1)   Used for housing or screening equipment necessary to the
manufacturing operations;
            (2)   Architecturally compatible with the building as a whole as
determined by the city planning division;
            (3)   Compliance with any additional screening and/or landscaping
requirements of the city; and
            (4)   Modifications are made with prior written approval of the
city planning division.
         (e)   Alterations to Buildings: Any alterations to buildings shall
meet all requirements of this chapter.
         (f)   Canopies: Canopies with visible wall hangers shall not be
permitted. Design of canopies shall be in keeping with the design of the
building and shall be approved by the city prior to construction or alteration.
         (g)   Loading Docks: The design of the loading docks shall be
incorporated into the overall design theme of the building and constructed of
materials equal to or the same as the principal building. The architectural
design shall be continuous and uninterrupted by ladders, towers, fences, and
equipment. Businesses that abut County Highway 50 and/or County Highway 31
shall not construct loading docks that front these roadways.
         (h)   Utilities: All buildings and structures shall be served by
underground utility distribution facilities. The installation of such utilities
shall not change the grade or contour of the city approved grading plan for the
site.
   (C)   Uses:
      1.   Permitted:
      Breweries.
      Data centers.
      Distilleries.
      Light manufacturing facilities.
      Microdistilleries.
      Offices.
      Office showroom.
      Office warehouse.
      Research facilities.
      Small breweries.
      Warehousing facilities.
      2.   Conditional:
      Bus terminal.
      Cannabis cultivation, indoor.
      Cannabis or hemp manufacturing.
      Child daycare facilities, commercial.
      Cocktail rooms as accessory to a microdistillery.
      Commercial recreational uses.
      Food processing facilities.
      Kennels, commercial.
      Manufacturing facilities.
      Public utility buildings.
      Recycling facilities.
      Taprooms as accessory to a brewery or small brewery.
      Truck terminal.
      Warehouse retail.
      3.   Accessory:
      Parking lots.
      4.   Interim:
      Mineral extraction.
(Ord. 015-711, 12-21-2015; amd. Ord. 018-737, 3-19-2018; Ord. 021-761, 8-16-
2021; Ord. 022-769, 9-19-2022; Ord. 2024-13, 12-16-2024)
10-5-18: P/OS PARKS AND OPEN SPACE DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The P/OS Parks and Open Space District provides recreational
and leisure opportunities through publicly owned land and recognizes vital
environmental resources including steep slopes, wetlands, and floodplains.
   (B)   Bulk And Density Standards:
 
Lot area           No requirement
Lot width          No requirement
Front yard setback 20 feet
Side yard setback  6 feet
Rear yard setback  6 feet
Height (maximum)   35 feet
 
All standards are minimum requirements unless noted.
   (C)   Uses:
      1.   Permitted:
      Agriculture.
      Golf courses.
      Noncommercial nursery.
      Parking lots.
      Public buildings.
      Public gardens.
      Public parks and playgrounds.
      Public utility buildings.
      2.   Conditional:
      Wildlife feeding station. (Ord. 002-472, 5-6-2002; amd. Ord. 003-498, 9-
15-2003; Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021)
10-5-19: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OVERLAY:
   (A)   Intent And Purposes: The planned unit development (PUD) overlay
district is intended to result in new development that benefits the city and
its residents. The PUD overlay provides a development alternative that allows
for greater flexibility and creativity in site and building design than would
be possible under the strict application of a zoning district’s requirements.
This overlay district adopts the underlying zoning district uses. In return for
having greater flexibility in site and building design requirements, a PUD
approved under this ordinance shall achieve one or more of the following
purposes:
      1.   Greater utilization of new technologies in building design,
construction, and land development.
      2.   Variety in the organization of site elements, lot sizes, housing
types, and land uses.
      3.   Preservation and enhancement of environmental resources, including
flora and fauna, scenic views, screening, access, and open space.
      4.   More efficient and effective use of land and public infrastructure
to support higher quality development at a lesser cost.
      5.   Establishment of recreational, public, and open spaces which may be
more useable, more suitability located, and higher quality than would be
provided under development standards.
      6.   Increased environmental sustainability in the development of land,
building construction, and building operations.
      7.   Higher level of integration of pedestrian and bicycle facilities to
and within a PUD.
      8.   An increase in the supply of low-income and moderate-income housing.
   (B)   General Standards:
      1.   Minimum Land Area: The proposed planned unit development must be
comprised of at least five (5) acres of contiguous land.
      2.   Sewer and Water Service: All PUDs shall have municipal sewer and
water service available.
      3.   Under Unified Control: The tract of land shall be under unified
control at the time of application and scheduled to be developed as one unit.
      4.   Permitted Uses: Allowed uses are only those permitted in the
underlying zoning district in which the planned unit development is located; a
PUD does not provide flexibility in allowed uses.
      5.   Density: The number of dwelling units proposed for a PUD shall not
exceed the number of dwelling units permitted by the underlying zoning district
in which the development is located.
      6.   Number of Buildings per Lot: More than one building may be placed on
a single platted lot in a PUD.
      7.   Building Permit: No building permit shall be granted for a building
on land for which a plan for a PUD has not been finally approved by the city
council.
      8.   Staging Of Development:
         (a)   Any PUD plan proposed to be constructed in stages shall include
full details relating thereto and the city council may approve or modify, where
necessary, any such proposals.
         (b)   The staging shall include the timing for beginning and
completion of each stage. Such timing may be modified by the city council on
the showing of good cause by the developer.
      9.   Streets, Utilities, and Services. The uniqueness of each PUD
proposal requires that specifications and standards for streets, utilities and
services shall be subject to minor modifications from the specifications and
standards established in this and other city ordinances governing their
construction.
         (a)   The city council may therefore waive or modify the
specifications or standards where it is found that they are not required in the
interest of the residents of the entire city.
         (b)   The plans and profiles of all streets, utilities and services
shall be reviewed, modified, if necessary, and approved by the city engineer.
   (C)   Approval Criteria:
      1.   Consistent With Comprehensive Plan: The development shall be planned
so that it is consistent with the Farmington comprehensive plan.
      2.   Compatibility with Existing Development: The planned unit
development proposal must harmonize with existing development in the area
surrounding the project site. Architectural style of buildings shall not solely
be a basis for denial or approval of a plan. However, the overall appearance
and compatibility of individual buildings to other site elements or to
surrounding development will be primary considerations in the review stages of
the planning commission and council.
      3.   Preservation of Natural Amenities: A primary function of the PUD
overlay is to encourage development which will preserve and enhance the
worthwhile, natural terrain characteristics and not force intense development
to utilize all portions of a given site in order to arrive at the maximum
density allowed. In evaluating each individual proposal, the recognition of the
objective will be a basic consideration in granting approval or denial.
      4.   Open Space Uses: Land for private or public open space use protected
by covenants running with the land or by conveyances or dedicated as the
planning commission may specify shall be an integral part of the plan. Such
open space areas shall conform to land area requirements of the subdivision
ordinance, and shall not include land devoted to streets, parking and private
yards.
   (D)   Procedure:
      1.   Pre-application Conference: Before submitting an application for a
planned unit development, an applicant may confer with the planning staff to
obtain information and guidance, before incurring substantial expense in the
preparation of plans, surveys and other data. A checklist will be provided to
the prospective applicant as an indication of the written and graphic materials
required for PUD consideration.
      2.   Schematic Plan:
         (a)   Submittal: The applicant shall submit a Schematic Plan to
planning staff prior to submitting a preliminary PUD application.
            (1)   Maps which are part of the schematic plan shall contain the
following:
               A.   Location map showing location of the site within the city.
               B.   The existing topographic character of the land.
               C.   A composite of all natural amenities of the site and three
hundred feet (300') adjacent to the site including steep slopes, drainageways,
plus marshes, ponds, lakes and property lines.
               D.   The size of site and proposed land uses to be developed
together with an identification of site land use and zoning.
               E.   The density of land use to be allocated to the several
parts of the development together with height, bulk and approximate location of
buildings and other structures.
               F.   The approximate location of thoroughfares.
               G.   The location of common open space including public schools,
parks and playgrounds or private natural preserves.
               H.   Schematic utility plan.
            (2)   The written statement of the PUD’s purposes and intent shall
include the following:
               A.   A statement of the ownership of all land involved in the
planned unit development together with a summary of owner’s previous
development experience.
               B.   An explanation of the general character of the planned unit
development.
               C.   A statement describing how the planned unit development
provides enhanced site design and explains the flexibility needed from
underlying development standards.
               D.   A general indication of the expected time schedule of
development.
               E.   A statement describing the ultimate ownership and
maintenance of all parts of the development including streets, structures and
open spaces.
               F.   A statement describing how all necessary governmental
services will be provided to the developer.
               G.   The total anticipated population to occupy the planned unit
development, with breakdowns indicating the number of school age children,
adults, and families.
      3.   Schematic Plan Review and Action:
         (a)   The planning commission shall review the application and make a
recommendation to the city council based on and including, but not limited to,
the following:
            (1)   Compatibility with the stated purposes and intent of the
planned unit development.
            (2)   Relationship of the proposed planned unit development to the
neighborhood in which it is proposed to be located, to the city's land use
plan, and to other provisions of the zoning ordinance.
            (3)   Internal organization and adequacy of various uses or
densities; circulation and parking facilities; public facilities, recreation
areas and open spaces.
         (b)   The city council shall act on the schematic plan after receipt
of the plan from the planning commission.
         (c)   If the schematic plan is approved, the applicant may proceed to
the preliminary PUD plan.
   (E)   Preliminary PUD Plan:
      1.   Application: Application for a preliminary PUD shall be filed with
the zoning officer within six (6) months of the approved schematic plan; the
applicant may request an extension in writing to the city, decided upon by the
city council. The preliminary PUD plan shall be in substantial compliance with
the schematic plan. In the event the preliminary plan is not in substantial
compliance, a new schematic plan shall be submitted for review.
         (a)   Phased PUD: The applicant may apply for preliminary approval for
phases of the development, however, the first phase of the development shall
cover at least twenty percent (20%) of the area approved as part of the
schematic plan.
            (1)   Phasing shall substantially follow the timeframe established
within the approved schematic plan.
            (2)   Once one phase of a PUD has been approved for final PUD plan,
the applicant shall be required to submit an application for the preliminary
PUD plan of the next phase within six (6) months; the applicant may request an
extension in writing to the city, decided upon the city council.
            (3)   No individual phase of a PUD plan may represent less than
twenty percent (20%) of the area approved as part of the schematic plan.
         (b)   Maps: Maps which are part of the preliminary plan shall include:
            (1)   All the maps required for schematic approval of the plan.
            (2)   Generalized elevations and perspectives of all structures.
            (3)   A grading plan showing existing and proposed contours at two
foot (2') intervals showing the direction of flow of surface drainage and all
easements necessary for both ponding and runoff.
            (4)   Plans and profiles for the distribution of water, collection
of sanitary waste and storm sewer for the proposed phase. For the remaining
area of the PUD the following information shall be shown:
               A.   Water distribution system.
               B.   Storm water distribution system.
               C.   Sanitary sewer system with invert elevation.
            (5)   Plans, profiles and typical sections for proposed street
improvements.
            (6)   All utility easements.
            (7)   Landscaping and planting plan.
            (8)   Erosion control plan.
         (c)   Summary Sheet: A summary sheet indicating:
            (1)   Land area for each use.
            (2)   Number of units proposed including number of bedrooms in each
area in subsection (D)4(a) of this section.
            (3)   Number of areas of common open space.
            (4)   Modifications of any provisions of this title or any other
ordinances, codes or regulations of the city.
            (5)   Phasing plan indicating geographical staging and approximate
timing of the plan or portions thereof.
         (d)   Design Standards: All preliminary and final utility plans shall
be drawn in accordance with Farmington engineering design criteria and standard
specifications.
      2.   Review of Preliminary Plan: The planning commission shall hold a
public hearing on the preliminary plan. The planning commission may recommend
the council approve, approve with conditions, or deny a preliminary plan for
PUD based on the following considerations:
         (a)   The consistency of the proposed planned unit development with
the adopted comprehensive plan of the city.
         (b)   The extent to which the proposed planned unit development is
designed to form a desirable and unified environment within its own boundaries
in terms of relationship of structures, patterns of circulation, visual
character and sufficiency of drainage and utilities.
         (c)   The extent to which the proposed uses will be compatible with
present and planned uses in the surrounding area.
         (d)   That any exceptions to the underlying zoning district’s
development standards are justified by the design or the development and meet
one or more of the listed intents of a planned unit development in (A) of this
section.
         (e)   The sufficiency of each planned unit development phase's size,
composition, and arrangement to ensure that its construction and operation is
feasible without dependence upon any subsequent phase.
         (f)   The burden or impact created by the planned unit development on
parks, schools, streets, and other public facilities and utilities.
         (g)   The impact of the planned unit development on environmental
quality and on the reasonable enjoyment of the surrounding property.
         (h)   The enhanced character of design of the PUD that explains the
need for flexibility from the underlying zoning district’s development
standards.
      3.   City Council Action on Preliminary Plan: The city council after
receiving recommendation from the planning commission shall review the
preliminary plan. The council may recommend approval, approval with conditions,
or deny a preliminary plan for PUD based on the following considerations:
         (a)   The consistency of the proposed planned unit development with
the adopted comprehensive plan of the city.
         (b)   The extent to which the proposed planned unit development is
designed to form a desirable and unified environment within its own boundaries
in terms of relationship of structures, patterns of circulation, visual
character and sufficiency of drainage and utilities.
         (c)   The extent to which the proposed uses will be compatible with
present and planned uses in the surrounding area.
         (d)   That any exceptions to the underlying zoning district’s
development standards are justified by the design or the development and meet
one or more of the listed intents of a planned unit development in (A) of this
section.
         (e)   The sufficiency of each planned unit development phase's size,
composition, and arrangement to ensure that its construction, and operation is
feasible without dependence upon any subsequent phase.
         (f)   The burden or impact created by the planned unit development on
parks, schools, streets, and other public facilities and utilities.
         (g)   The impact of the planned unit development on environmental
quality and on the reasonable enjoyment of the surrounding property.
         (h)   The enhanced character of design of the PUD that explains the
need for flexibility from the underlying zoning district’s development
standards.
   (F)   Final Plan Approval:
      1.   Submittal: A final plan shall be submitted with an application for
final plan approval within one (1) year of council approval of the preliminary
plan unless a written request for an extension is submitted by the applicant.
If an application for final approval or a request for an extension is not
received within one (1) year, the preliminary plan will be considered abandoned
and a new application for a preliminary plan must be submitted following the
preliminary plan procedure.
      2.   Application Review: The city council shall review the final plan
after filing of the application for final plan approval.
      3.   Substantial Compliance: The final plan shall be in substantial
compliance with the approved preliminary plan. "Substantial compliance" shall
mean:
         (a)   The number of residential living units has not been increased.
         (b)   The floor area of nonresidential uses has not been increased.
         (c)   Open space has not been decreased or altered to change its
original intended design or use.
         (d)   All special conditions prescribed on the preliminary plan by the
applicant or any of the reviewing bodies have been incorporated into the final
plan.
      4.   Additional Data and Documents: The application for final plan
approval shall be accompanied by the following data and documents:
         (a)   All the information contained in the preliminary plan plus any
alterations or corrections required by the city council.
         (b)   Proposed zoning changes with legal descriptions of all district
boundaries.
         (c)   Deed restrictions, covenants, agreements, bylaws or proposed
homeowners' associations and other documents controlling the use of property,
type of construction or development of the activities of future residents.
         (d)   A signed and executed developer's agreement.
         (e)   A subdivision plat suitable for recording in the office of the
register of deeds of the county.
      5.   Annual Review: The planning commission shall review all planned unit
development districts within the city at least once each year until project
completion and shall make a report to the city council on the status of the
development in each of the planned unit development districts. If the city
council finds that development has not occurred within a reasonable time after
the original approval, the city council may instruct the planning commission to
initiate rezoning to just the underlying zoning district by removing the
planned unit development overlay district from the official zoning map.
      6.   Amendments and Control:
         (a)   Amendments may be made in the approved final plan when they are
shown to be required by changes in conditions that have occurred since the
final plan was approved or by changes in the development policy of the city.
         (b)   Minor changes in the location, siting and height of buildings
and structures may be authorized by the planning staff if required by
engineering or other unforeseen circumstances.
         (c)   All other changes in use, rearrangement of lots, blocks and open
space must be authorized by the city council under procedures outlined for
amendment of the zoning title.
   (G)   Planned Unit Development Districts:
      1.   PUD-1 - Farmington Technology Park:
         (a)   Development Plans: The following plans are required to be
reviewed and approved by the City and must be in conformance with all standards
listed below:
            (1)   Site Plans.
            (2)   Landscaping Plans.
            (3)   Lighting Plans.
            (4)   Noise Studies.
            (5)   Grading Plans.
            (6)   Building Plans.
            (7)   Storm Water Plans.
            (8)   Utility Plans.
         (b)   Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted uses in PUD-1:
            (1)   Data Center Technology Park.
         (c)   Accessory Uses: The following uses shall be permitted accessory
uses in the PUD-1:
            (1)   Electric Substations.
         (d)   Special Development Standards:
            (1)   Building Setbacks:
               A.   Adjacent To Residential Uses: Two hundred fifty feet
(250').
                  i.   This setback is also recognized to be established from
the residential properties on the south side of 225th St. West. The intervening
225th St. West ROW is considered to be included in the measurement of this
setback.
               B.   Adjacent To Non-Residential Uses: One hundred fifty feet
(150').
               C.   From the seventy five feet (75') ROW dedication on the east
side of Lot 1, Block 1: One hundred seventy five feet (175').
               D.   Adjacent To Lot 2: Zero foot (0') from internal property
lines within the overall PUD. Applicable MUCI setbacks shall apply to property
lines not adjacent to the PUD.
               E.   Adjacent To 225th Street West: Forty feet (40') with the
exception of a two hundred fifty foot (250') setback identified in (G)1(d)(1)Ai
above.
               F.   Adjacent to the southern property line of Lot 3 and the
western property line of Lot 3 north to the designated floodzone: forty feet
(40').
            (2)   Natural Buffers: A natural buffer of forty feet (40') from
all perimeter property lines, except for this listed below, is established
under this PUD:
               A.   Existing, healthy trees shall be retained in the natural
buffer, to the greatest extent practicable, in accordance with Section
10-6-11 of the Farmington City Code. Utilities, access drives landscaping,
perimeter fencing and berms may be located in the natural buffer. Except as
otherwise permitted under subsection (G)1(d)(6)A(ii), Security fencing,
security gates, and guard buildings shall be located on the interior side of
the natural buffer. Where there are no existing trees in the natural buffer
that qualify for preservation under Section 10-6-11 et seq. of the Farmington
City Code, then stormwater features may be located in the natural buffer
provided they are adequately landscaped in accordance with the applicable
sections of the Farmington City Code, unless otherwise approved by the Planning
Division.
               B.   Exceptions:
                  i.   Adjacent to 225th Street West.
                  ii.   Adjacent to Lot 2: Only the eastern most property line
south of the forty foot (40') natural buffer adjacent to State Highway 50 and
adjacent to the southern property line outside of the one hundred fifty feet
(150') setback adjacent to the western property line of Lot 1.
                  iii.   From the northeast comer of Lot 13, Bock 3, Executive
Estates, directly south along the project property line to the 225th St. West
ROW there shall be an eighty foot (80') natural buffer.
                  iv.   From the southwest comer of Lot 1, Block 1 Farmington
Technology Park easterly to directly north of the northwest comer of Lot 1,
Block 2 Farmington Technology Park, there shall be an eighty foot (80') natural
buffer.
            (3)   Landscaping: In addition to the applicable landscaping
standard set forth in Section 10-6-10 of the Farmington City Code, the
following additional landscaping standards shall apply:
               A.   Drought tolerant, native plants shall be utilized
throughout the site. A diversity of coniferous and deciduous plant material
shall be used subject to and as determined through the planting plan review
during the site plan process. Additionally, a mix of fast and slower growing
tree species shall be planted.
               B.   Rock, gravel, and/or mulch may also be used as an accent
material for maintenance areas directly adjacent to a building, around utility
access points (i.e. manholes, control valves, and hand holes), or in mechanical
areas.
               C.   Where parking areas are located a minimum of three hundred
feet (300') from a public road or residential use, and the parking area is
screened by building location, parking lot landscaping shall not be required.
However, end islands of parking aisles that are visible from a public street or
residential use shall be landscaped in accordance with Section 10-16-10(D)8(e).
               D.   Berms are required to be constructed where development
occurs adjacent to residential uses. Berms may be allowed up to ten feet (10')
in height from existing grade in order to incorporate more aesthetic visual
features into the site. Berms over ten feet (10') in height may be allowed
subject to administrative site plan review and approval by the City.
Additionally, landscaping may be installed on the berms and walls where
feasible.
               E.   Any berms approved with a site pan for a data center
building shall be constructed prior to the first foundation inspection for any
building included in the associated approved site plan. Landscaping associated
with the berm shall be installed during the Minnesota growing season. If
construction of the berms are completed outside of the Minnesota growing
season, then all required landscaping shall be installed by June 1 of the
subsequent growing season.
            (4)   General Design Standards:
               A.   Principal building facades will meet the following
standards:
                  i.   For the purposes of this subsection, the term "principal
building facades" shall include all building facades substantially visible to
abutting public roads or adjacent to planned or existing residential districts.
                  ii.   Principal building facades shall avoid the use of
undifferentiated surfaces by including at least two (2) of the following design
elements:
                     a.   Change in building height.
                     b.   Building step-backs, projections or recesses.
                     c.   Fenestration.
                     d.   Changes in building material, pattern, texture,
color.
                     e.   Use of accent material.
                     f.   Overhangs.
                     g.   Canopies or porticos.
                     h.   Arcades.
                     i.   Variations in the roof line.
                     j.   Faux windows.
                     k.   Green walls.
                     l.   Other enhanced design elements which may be approved
by the Planning Commission.
                  iii.   When a building has more than one principal facade,
such facades shall be consistent in their design, materials, and treatments.
               B.   Screening Of Building Mechanical Equipment And Critical
Infrastructure:
                  i.   Ground-level mechanical equipment or accessory uses (not
including parking areas) that are visible from public rights-of-way and/or
adjacent residential dwellings will be screened from public view using one or
multiple of the following methods of screening:
                     a.   A principal structure;
                     b.   Existing vegetation that will remain on the property,
or new, planted vegetation (ex. Evergreens or shrubs) that fully screens the
equipment from public view;
                     c.   A visually solid fence, screen wall or panel, or
other visually solid screen that shall be constructed of materials that are
matching or consistent in style, color and/or texture with those used in the
exterior construction of the principal building. Chain link fencing with slats
is not permitted to satisfy this requirement.
                  ii.   Above-ground mechanical equipment and structures will
be screened from view from adjacent public streets and residential dwellings.
                  iii.   Any mechanical units placed on the rooftops of
buildings shall be screened from view from adjacent public streets and
residential dwellings by architectural features which are compatible with
building facade architecture. The method of screening shall be provided and
reviewed with the Planning Divisions review of the building elevations. The
screening of roof mounted equipment shall be excluded from the overall height
limitation but in no instance shall exceed eighty feet (80'). Rooftop equipment
should be centrally located on the roof where feasible.
                  iv.   All buildings are exempt from any existing or future
City requirement to install roof-mounted solar equipment.
            (5)   Building Height: Maximum building height for principal
structures is eighty feet (80'). However, the maximum height at the building
setback line is fifty feet (50'). For each one foot increase in building
height, the building must be stepped back five feet (5').
               A.   Eighty foot (80') tall buildings shall be setback a minimum
of four hundred feet (400')from the property line adjacent to a residential
zone district.
               B.   Maximum building height for accessory buildings is fifty
feet (50').
            (6)   Fences:
               A.   Security Fencing:
                  i.   Maximum fence height of fourteen feet (14').
                  ii.   Must be located on the inside edge of the natural
buffer interior to the site unless otherwise approved by the City.
               B.   Perimeter Fencing:
                  i.   Maximum fence height of seven feet (7').
                  ii.   In locations where the existing fence will be relocated
to the property line on the west side of the project boundary, applicant shall
provide adjacent property owners with the opportunity to collectively decide
between three (3) choices of fence material and design to include, but not
limited to: wood, chain link, or metal. Applicant shall also replace any
damaged landscaping resulting from the fence replacement.
            (7)   Electric Utility Lines:
               A.   Data centers are typically fed power from the utility's
transmission system directly to the data center site. Depending on the utility,
transmission voltage is typically 69kV or greater. Transmission lines are
typically installed overhead for safety and cost effectiveness.
               B.   Permanent distribution lines on data center campuses are
typically installed underground.
               C.   Temporary overhead power distribution lines for
construction power will likely be installed above-ground. It has not been
determined how construction power will be constructed or served. Temporary
lines, which look like standard utility distribution lines, provide power for
the construction of buildings and the support of building operations. These
lines shall remain in use until the permanent underground service from the on-
site substation is operational, and building construction is completed. The
temporary distribution equipment may be rerouted to serve additional
construction sites or removed altogether by the electric utility.
               D.   The transition from the transmission system is a switching
station/substation, which may or may not be on the data center site. The
switching station/substation is an integral use associated with the data center
operations.
            (8)   Noise:
               A.   Noise generated from the site shall meet the applicable
noise ordinance requirements as established by the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency.
               B.   Prior to the approval of a site plan, the applicant shall
provide a noise study to demonstrate that the applicable noise levels will not
be exceeded. At the time of site plan and building permit review, additional
noise attenuation measures to ensure that MPCA noise rules are adhered to may
be required.
               C.   In addition to the foregoing, applicant agrees to install
physical sound attenuation on any mechanical equipment (including but not
limited to ground supported barriers, earthen berms, mechanical screening or
other attenuation techniques as specifically called out in subsequent sound
studies) that is installed at a data center building located within one
thousand two hundred feet (1,200') of any adjacent residential use and that is
either (i) installed on the rooftop of such building or (ii) that is installed
on the exterior side of such data center building and directly facing such
adjacent residential uses, in each case unless a noise study demonstrates that
there is no incremental noise from such mechanical equipment as a result of the
foregoing installation locations.
            (9)   Parking: One parking space per one thousand square feet
(1,000 sf) of office use. Parking spaces are not required for designated data
hall areas. Minimum parking may be modified based on a parking study provided
with a site plan or building permit application, as applicable.
            (10)   Substations shall be exempt from the design regulations of
the MUCI Zoning District. Mechanical and electrical equipment will be housed in
mechanical yards that are fenced and screened.
               A.   The property may have outdoor mechanical and electrical
equipment of size (not to exceed the aggregate building footprint), number,
volume, and location to sufficiently serve the buildings and be in relational
proximity to the buildings.
               B.   Security fencing around a substation shall be setback a
minimum of thirty feet (30') from a property line adjacent to a residential
zoned property. Any substation equipment shall be setback a minimum of fifty
feet (50') from a property line adjacent to a residential zoned property.
            (11)   Private communications towers are permitted up to a maximum
height of 80 feet and are subject to building setback requirements.
            (12)   Maximum Lot Coverage of All Uses: There is no maximum lot
coverage for all uses built in designated "developable area".
            (13)   Lighting: The maximum height of pole-mounted exterior
lighting shall be eighteen feet (18'). All exterior lighting fixtures,
including pol-mounted exterior lighting and building-mounted exterior lighting,
shall be fully shielded with house side shields installed. Lighting shall not
exceed .50 foot-candles at the interior edge of the natural buffer area, as
applicable. Lighting that is exempt from these requirements includes temporary
lighting and lighting provided for emergency or safety and security purposes as
required by: the Building Code, Electrical Code, or otherwise within the City
Code. Signage related to the authorized uses shall not be illuminated. The
uplighting of buildings is prohibited. The maximum height of an building-
mounted exterior light fixture shall be thirty five feet (35') in height, with
exception of motion-activated security lighting.
            (14)   Access: Primary access drives shall be a minimum of two
hundred fifty feet (250') from any directly abutting residential property line.
This provision does not apply to residential properties that are separated by
right-of-way.
      2.   PUD-2 - Dakota Meadows Preserve.
         (a)   Development plans. The following plans are required to be
reviewed and approved by the City and must be in conformance with all standards
listed below:
            (1)   Preliminary and Final Plat
            (2)   Utility & Street Construction Plan
         (b)   Special development standards.
            (1)   Lot Area & Width.
               A.   Reducing the minimum lot area to 4,261 square feet.
               B.   Reducing the minimum lot width to 40 feet.
            (2)   Building Setbacks.
               A.   Reducing the corner side yard setback to 15 feet.
               B.   Reducing the interior side yard setback to 5 feet.
         (3)   Building Coverage.
            A.   Increasing the building coverage percentage for lots to 50%.
         (4)   Stormwater Pond Depth. Allowance for stormwater basins within
the development to exceed the maximum detention pond depth of 8 feet as
provided for in the City’s Engineering Guidelines. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002;
amd. Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003; Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021; Ord. 2024-12, 11-181-
2024; Ord. 2025-003, 6-16-2025)
10-5-20: FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT:
   (A)   Statutory Authorization: The legislature of the state of Minnesota
has, in Minnesota Statutes Annotated chapters 103F and 394 for counties or 462
for municipalities, delegated the authority to local governmental units to
adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. Minnesota Statutes
Annotated chapter 103F further stipulates that communities subject to recurrent
flooding must participate and maintain eligibility in the national flood
insurance program. Therefore the city of Farmington, Minnesota, does ordain as
follows.
   (B)   Statement Of Purpose: The purpose of this section is to maintain the
community's eligibility in the national flood insurance program codified as 44
code of federal regulations parts 59-78, as amended and to minimize potential
losses due to periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of property,
health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health,
safety and general welfare.
   (C)   Warning Of Disclaimer Of Liability: This section does not imply that
areas outside of the floodplain district or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding and flood damages. This section shall not
create liability on the part of the city of Farmington or any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
section or any administrative decisions lawfully made hereunder.
   (D)   General Provisions:
      1.   Adoption Of Floodplain Maps: The official zoning map together with
all materials attached thereto is hereby adopted by reference and declared to
be a part of this section. The attached material shall include the "Flood
Insurance Study For Dakota County, Minnesota And Incorporated Areas" and flood
insurance rate map panels therein numbered 27037C0204E, 27037C0208E,
27037C0209E, 27037C0212E, 27037C0214E, 27037C0216E, 27037C0217E, 27037C0218E,
27037C0219E, 27037C0236E, 27037C0238E, 27037C0356E and 27037C0360E, all dated
December 2, 2011, and prepared by the federal emergency management agency. The
official zoning map shall be filed in the office of the zoning administrator.
      2.   Lands To Which Section Applies: This section shall apply to all
lands designated as zone AE or zone A within the jurisdiction of Farmington as
shown on the official zoning map and/or the attachments thereto.
      3.   Interpretation: The boundaries of the floodplain district shall be
determined by GIS or scaling distances on the official floodplain zoning
district map. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the
boundaries of the floodplain district, the city engineer shall make the
necessary interpretation based on elevations on the regional (100-year) flood
profile, if available, the ground elevations that existed on the site at the
time the community adopted its initial floodplain ordinance or on the date of
the first national flood insurance program map showing the area with the 100-
year floodplain if earlier, and other available technical data. If 100-year
flood elevations are not available, the community shall: a) require a
floodplain evaluation consistent with subsection (F) of this section to
determine a 100-year flood elevation for the site; or b) base its decision on
available hydraulic/hydrologic or site elevation survey data which demonstrates
the likelihood the site is within or outside of the floodplain.
      4.   Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: It is not intended by this
section to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this section imposes greater restrictions,
the provisions of this section shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this section are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
      5.   Severability: If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
section is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this section shall not be affected thereby.
      6.   Annexations: The flood insurance rate map panels adopted by
reference into subsection (D)1 of this section may include floodplain areas
that lie outside of the corporate boundaries of the city of Farmington at the
time of adoption hereof. If any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into
the city of Farmington after the date of adoption hereof, the newly annexed
floodplain lands shall be subject to the provisions of this section immediately
upon the date of annexation into the city of Farmington.
   (E)   Conflict With Preexisting Zoning Regulations And General Compliance:
      1.   The Floodplain District As Overlay Zoning District: The floodplain
zoning district shall be considered an overlay zoning district to all existing
land use regulations of the community. The uses permitted in subsection (F) of
this section shall be permitted only if not prohibited by any established,
underlying zoning district. The requirements of this section shall apply in
addition to other legally established regulations of the community and where
this section imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this section shall
apply.
      2.   Compliance: No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be located, extended, repaired, maintained, converted, or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this section and
other applicable regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of
this section. Within the floodway and flood fringe, all uses not listed as
permitted uses in subsection (F) of this section shall be prohibited. In
addition, a caution is provided here that:
         (a)   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes and
certain travel trailers and travel vehicles are subject to the general
provisions of this title and specifically subsections (F) and (N) of this
section;
         (b)   Modifications, repair, maintenance, additions, structural
alterations or repair after damage to existing nonconforming structures and
nonconforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the general
provisions of this title and specifically subsection (K) of this section; and
         (c)   As built elevations for elevated structures must be certified by
ground surveys as stated in subsection (I) of this section.
   (F)   Permitted Uses, Standards, And Floodplain Evaluation Criteria:
      1.   Permitted Uses In The Floodplain: The following uses of land are
permitted uses in the floodplain district:
         (a)   Any use of land which does not involve a structure, an addition
to the outside dimensions to an existing structure or an obstruction to flood
flows such as fill, excavation, or storage of materials or equipment.
         (b)   Any use of land involving the construction of new structures,
the placement or replacement of manufactured homes, the addition to the outside
dimensions of an existing structure or obstructions such as fill or storage of
materials or equipment, provided these activities meet two (2) conditions.
First, they are located in the flood fringe portion of the floodplain. Second,
that compensatory flood storage volume is provided equal to the amount of fill
proposed. The compensatory volume shall be provided between the impacted area
and the channel in such a way to prevent an increase in the existing or future
regional flood profile. These uses shall be subject to the development
standards in subsection (F)2 of this section and the floodplain evaluation
criteria in subsection (F)3 of this section for determining floodway and flood
fringe boundaries.
         (c)   Travel trailers and travel vehicles are regulated by subsection
(N) of this section.
      2.   Standards For Floodplain Permitted Uses:
         (a)   Fill And Slopes: Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes
shall be properly protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other
acceptable method. The federal emergency management agency (FEMA) has
established criteria for removing the special flood hazard area designation for
certain structures properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood
elevation; FEMA's requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side
slope protection standards for multistructure or multilot developments. These
standards should be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if
a change of special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
         (b)   Setbacks: Setbacks for floodplain alterations, fill, and new
underground utilities, such as water, sanitary and storm sewers and
interceptors, gas lines, phone lines, and pipelines shall be established and
used along major waterways. These setbacks shall be established as follows. The
exception is for utilities that need to reach or cross the major waterway,
provided the minimum impact alignment is used.
            (1)   Where a major waterway has a sinuous flow pattern and a
meander belt can be identified, the setback for new underground utilities shall
be set back fifteen feet (15') from the outer edge of the meander belt.
            (2)   Where a sinuous flow pattern and meander belt are not readily
identifiable because of past channel alterations and/or the geomorphology of
the channel, the setback established for new underground utilities shall
provide for the potential for restoration and a sinuous flow pattern as
follows.
            (3)   Where there are existing encroachments that limit full
restoration of the stream to the meander widths appropriate for the stream
type, the setback shall be fifteen feet (15') from the reasonably achievable
restoration width for the meander belt given the existing encroachments.
            (4)   Where full restoration is possible, the setback shall be
fifteen feet (15') from a meander belt width established along the stream reach
that has a width ten (10) times the bank full channel width. An assessment of
the stream type may be completed, and meander belt widths established according
to the stream type, in place of using the above ten (10) times formula. Note:
The 1999 Vermillion River assessment report, available at the Dakota SWCD or
the Dakota County offices of the VRWJPO, provide assessment of the stream type
for many reaches of the Vermillion River.
            (5)   Where buffers are required, aboveground encroachments,
alterations, and fill shall be consistent with the prohibited and allowed uses
and widths specified in the buffer standard.
         (c)   Projects Altering Floodplain Boundaries: Projects that result in
an increase to the 100-year flood stage for activities in the floodway, such as
bridge crossings and regional ponds that increase upstream high water levels
are allowed provided that:
            (1)   The applicant submits easements or other documentation in a
form acceptable to the city or the VRWJPO demonstrating and recording the
consent of the owner of any land affected by the increased high water levels,
            (2)   The action is consistent with other portions of these
standards; and local, state and federal regulations, and a conditional and
final letter of map revision is secured from the federal emergency management
agency when required by 44 code of federal regulations, section 60.3 (c) or
(d), and
            (3)   The upstream impacts, riparian impacts and habitat impacts of
the proposed action are analyzed and no detrimental impacts result, or adverse
impacts are mitigated.
         (d)   Storage Of Materials And Equipment:
            (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
            (2)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
or if placed on fill to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (e)   Adverse Impact: Floodplain alteration or filling shall not cause
a net decrease in flood storage capacity below the projected 100-year critical
flood elevation unless it is shown that the proposed alteration or filling,
together with the alteration or filling of all other land on the affected reach
of the water body to the same degree of encroachment as proposed by the
applicant, will not cause high water or aggravate flooding on other land and
will not unduly restrict flood flows.
         (f)   Above Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation: All new structures
shall be constructed with the lowest floor elevated on fill at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation, which is more restrictive than the
minimum elevations and standards as specified in state of Minnesota rules
chapter 6120.5800, subdivision 4.B: shoreland and floodplain management; Dakota
County ordinance 50: shoreland and floodplain ordinance: FP, floodplain
district; as applicable.
         (g)   Projects: Projects involving development, redevelopment, or the
subdivision of land, shall establish flood storage, flowage, and drainage
easements over areas below the 100-year critical flood elevation of any public
water, public waters wetland, or wetland.
         (h)   All Uses: Uses that do not have vehicular access at or above an
elevation not more than two feet (2') below the regulatory flood protection
elevation to lands outside of the floodplain shall not be permitted unless
granted a variance by the board of adjustment. In granting a variance, the
board shall specify limitations on the period of use or occupancy of the use
and only after determining that adequate flood warning time and local emergency
response and recovery procedures exist.
         (i)   Commercial And Manufacturing Uses: Accessory land uses, such as
yards, railroad tracks, and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the
regulatory flood protection elevation. However, a permit for such facilities to
be used by the employees or the general public shall not be granted in the
absence of a flood warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation if
the area would be inundated to a depth greater than two feet (2') or be subject
to flood velocities greater than four feet (4') per second upon occurrence of
the regional flood.
         (j)   On Site Sewage Treatment And Water Supply Systems: Where public
utilities are not provided: 1) on site water supply systems must be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems; and 2) new
or replacement on site sewage treatment systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and discharges from the
systems into floodwaters and they shall not be subject to impairment or
contamination during times of flooding. Any sewage treatment system designed in
accordance with the state's current statewide standards for on site sewage
treatment systems shall be determined to be in compliance with this section.
         (k)   Anchored Foundations: All manufactured homes must be securely
anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation,
collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to
be limited to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This
requirement is in addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements
for resisting wind forces.
      3.   Floodplain Evaluation:
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit, manufactured home
park development or subdivision approval within the floodplain district, the
planning coordinator shall require the applicant to furnish sufficient site
development plans and a hydrologic/hydraulic analysis by a qualified engineer
or hydrologist specifying the nature of the development and whether the
proposed use is located in the floodway or flood fringe and the regulatory
flood protection elevation for the site. Procedures consistent with Minnesota
rules, 1983, parts 6120.5600 (technical standards and requirements for
floodplain evaluation) and 6120.5700 (minimum floodplain management standards
for local ordinances) shall be followed during the technical evaluation and
review of the development proposal. In a zone AE on the flood insurance rate
map panel adopted in subsection (D)1 of this section, the floodway and flood
fringe boundaries shall be as shown on the flood insurance rate map.
         (b)   The planning coordinator shall submit one copy of all
information required by this subsection (F) to the respective department of
natural resources' area hydrologist for review and comment at least twenty (20)
days prior to the granting of a permit or manufactured home park development/
subdivision approval by the community. The planning coordinator shall notify
the respective department of natural resources area hydrologist within ten (10)
days after a permit or manufactured home park development/subdivision approval
is granted.
   (G)   Utilities, Railroads, Roads And Bridges In The District:
      1.   Public Utilities: All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
shall be floodproofed in accordance with the state building code or elevated to
above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      2.   Public Transportation Facilities (Including Railroad Tracks, Roads
And Bridges): Elevation to the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be
provided where failure or interruption of these transportation facilities would
result in danger to the public health or safety or where such facilities are
essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor auxiliary roads or
railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where failure or interruption
of transportation services would not endanger the public health or safety.
   (H)   Subdivisions:
      1.   City Engineer Review For Suitability: No land shall be subdivided
and no manufactured home park shall be developed or expanded where the site is
determined to be unsuitable by the city engineer for reason of flooding,
inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment facilities. The city
engineer shall review the subdivision/development proposal to ensure that each
lot or parcel contains sufficient area outside of the floodway for fill
placement for elevating structures, sewage systems and related activities.
      2.   Evaluation: In the floodplain district, applicants for subdivision
approval or development of a manufactured home park or manufactured home park
expansion shall provide the information required in subsection (F) of this
section. The city engineer shall evaluate the proposed subdivision or mobile
home park development in accordance with the standards established in
subsection (F) of this section.
      3.   Access Roads: For all subdivisions in the floodplain, the floodway
and flood fringe boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the
required elevation of all access roads shall be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
      4.   Removal Of Special Flood Hazard Area Designation: The federal
emergency management agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the
special flood hazard area designation for certain structures properly elevated
on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA's requirements incorporate
specific fill compaction and side slope protection standards for multistructure
or multilot developments. These standards should be investigated prior to the
initiation of site preparation if a change of special flood hazard area
designation will be requested.
   (I)   Administration:
      1.   Permit Required: A permit issued by the city engineer shall be
secured prior to the construction, addition, alteration, rehabilitation
(including normal maintenance and repair) or modification of any building or
structure, or portion thereof; prior to the use or change of use of a building,
structure, or land; prior to the construction of a dam, fence, or on site
septic system; prior to the change or extension of a nonconforming use; prior
to the repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire, tornado, or
any other source; and prior to the placement of fill, excavation of materials,
or the placement of an obstruction within the floodplain.
      2.   State And Federal Permits: Prior to granting a permit or processing
an application for a variance, the city engineer shall determine that the
applicant has obtained all necessary state and federal permits.
      3.   Certification Of Lowest Floor Elevations: The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a registered professional engineer,
registered architect, or registered land surveyor that the finished fill and
building elevations were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this
title. The city engineer shall maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest
floor (including basement) for all new structures and alterations or additions
to existing structures in the floodplain district.
      4.   Notifications For Watercourse Alterations: The city engineer shall
notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the commissioner of
the department of natural resources prior to the community authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has applied for a
permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to Minnesota statute,
chapter 103G, this shall suffice as adequate notice to the commissioner of
natural resources. A copy of said notification shall also be submitted to the
Chicago regional office of the federal emergency management agency (FEMA).
      5.   Notification To FEMA When Physical Changes Increase Or Decrease The
100-Year Flood Elevation: As soon as practical, but not later than six (6)
months after the date such supporting information becomes available, the city
engineer shall notify the Chicago regional office of FEMA of the changes by
submitting a copy of said technical or scientific data.
   (J)   Variances:
      1.   Definition; Applicability: A "variance" means a modification of a
specific permitted development standard required in an official control
including this title to allow an alternative development standard not stated as
acceptable in the official control, but only as applied to a particular
property for the purpose of alleviating a hardship, practical difficulty or
unique circumstance as defined and elaborated upon in a community's respective
planning and zoning enabling legislation.
      2.   Board Action: The board may authorize upon appeal in specific cases
such relief or variance from the terms of this title as will not be contrary to
the public interest and only for those circumstances such as hardship,
practical difficulties or circumstances unique to the property under
consideration, as provided for in the respective enabling legislation for
planning and zoning for cities or counties as appropriate. In the granting of
such variance, the board of adjustment shall clearly identify in writing the
specific conditions that existed consistent with the criteria specified in the
respective enabling legislation which justified the granting of the variance.
      3.   When Allowed: Variances from the provisions of this title may be
authorized where the board of adjustment has determined the variance will not
be contrary to the public interest and the spirit and intent of this title. No
variance shall allow in any district a use prohibited in that district or
permit a lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood protection
elevation. Variances may be used to modify permissible methods of flood
protection. The following additional variance criteria of the federal emergency
management agency must be satisfied:
         (a)   Variances shall not be issued by a community within any
designated regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge would result.
         (b)   Variances shall only be issued by a community upon: 1) a showing
of good and sufficient cause, 2) a determination that failure to grant the
variance would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and 3) a
determination that the granting of the variance will not result in increased
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         (c)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.   Copies Of Application: The board shall submit by mail to the
commissioner of natural resources a copy of the application for proposed
variance sufficiently in advance so that the commissioner will receive at least
ten (10) days' notice of the hearing. A copy of all decisions granting a
variance shall be forwarded by mail to the commissioner of natural resources
within ten (10) days of such action.
      5.   Appeals: Appeals from any decision of the board may be made, and as
specified in this community's official controls and also Minnesota statutes.
      6.   Flood Insurance Notice And Recordkeeping: The zoning officer shall
notify the applicant for a variance that: a) the issuance of a variance to
construct a structure below the base flood level will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as twenty five dollars
($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage, and b) such
construction below the 100-year or regional flood level increases risks to life
and property. Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all
variance actions. A community shall maintain a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance, and report such variances issued in
its annual or biennial report submitted to the administrator of the national
flood insurance program.
   (K)   Nonconformities: A structure or the use of a structure or premises
which was lawful before the passage or amendment of this title but which is not
in conformity with the provisions of this title may be continued subject to the
following conditions:
      1.   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged, or altered in a
way which increases its nonconformity.
      2.   Any structural alteration to a nonconforming use in the floodway or
flood fringe which would result in increasing the flood damage potential of
that structure or use shall be protected to the regulatory flood protection
elevation in accordance with any of the floodproofing techniques (i.e., FP-
1 through FP-4 floodproofing classifications) allowable in the state building
code, except as further restricted in subsections (K)3 and (K)6 of this
section. A structural addition to a nonconforming structure must be located
outside of the floodway and must be elevated on fill to the regulatory flood
protection elevation in accordance with subsection (F)2 of this section.
      3.   The cost of all structural alterations or additions both inside and
outside of a structure to any nonconforming structure over the life of the
structure shall not exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the
structure unless the conditions of this section are satisfied. The cost of all
structural alterations and additions constructed since the adoption of the
community's initial floodplain controls must be calculated into today's current
cost which will include all costs such as construction materials and a
reasonable cost placed on all manpower or labor. If the current cost of all
previous and proposed alterations and additions exceeds fifty percent (50%) of
the current market value of the structure, then the structure must meet the
standards of subsection (F) of this section for new structures.
      4.   If any nonconforming use is discontinued for twelve (12) consecutive
months, any future use of the building premises shall conform to this title.
      5.   If any nonconforming use of a structure or land or nonconforming
structure is destroyed by any means, including floods, to an extent of fifty
percent (50%) or more of its market value at the time of destruction, it shall
not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this title.
The city engineer may issue a permit for reconstruction if the use is located
outside the floodway and, upon reconstruction, is adequately elevated on fill
in conformity with the provisions of this title.
      6.   If "substantial improvement" occurs, as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title, for any combination of a building addition to the outside
dimensions of the existing building or a rehabilitation, reconstruction,
alteration, or other improvement to the inside dimensions of an existing
nonconforming building, then the building addition and the existing
nonconforming building must meet the requirements of this title.
   (L)   Penalties For Violation: A violation of the provisions of this section
or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations of
conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variance)
shall constitute a misdemeanor.
      1.   In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the zoning officer
and local government may utilize the full array of enforcement actions
available to it including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after the fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the national flood insurance program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The community must act in good faith to
enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to the
extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the national flood
insurance program.
      2.   When an ordinance violation is either discovered by or brought to
the attention of the zoning officer, the zoning officer shall immediately
investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the violation
of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this information
will be submitted to the appropriate department of natural resources and
federal emergency management agency regional office along with the community's
plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
      3.   The zoning officer shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the zoning officer may order the
construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the community. If the construction or development is
already completed, then the zoning officer may either: a) issue an order
identifying the corrective actions that must be made within a specified time
period to bring the use or structure into compliance with the official
controls, or b) notify the responsible party to apply for an after the fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed
thirty (30) days.
      4.   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
zoning officer within the specified period of time, each additional day that
lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter and shall be
prosecuted accordingly. The zoning officer shall also upon the lapse of the
specified response period notify the landowner to restore the land to the
condition which existed prior to the violation of this chapter.
   (M)   Amendments 1 : All amendments to this title, including revisions to
the official floodplain zoning district map, shall be submitted to and approved
by the commissioner of natural resources prior to adoption. The floodplain
designation on the official floodplain zoning district map shall not be removed
unless the area is filled to an elevation at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation and is contiguous to lands outside of the floodplain.
Changes in the official zoning map must meet the federal emergency management
agency's (FEMA) technical conditions and criteria and must receive prior FEMA
approval before adoption. The commissioner of natural resources must be given
ten (10) days' written notice of all hearings to consider an amendment to this
chapter and said notice shall include a draft of the ordinance amendment or
technical study under consideration.
   (N)   Travel Trailers And Travel Vehicles: Travel trailers and travel
vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria specified below shall be
subject to the provisions of this section and as specifically spelled out
below:
      1.   Exemption: Travel trailers and travel vehicles are exempt from the
provisions of this section if they are placed in any of the areas listed in
subsection (N)2 of this section and further they meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Have current licenses required for highway use.
         (b)   Are highway ready meaning on wheels or the internal jacking
system, are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
commonly used in campgrounds and trailer parks and the travel trailer/travel
vehicle has no permanent structural type additions attached to it.
         (c)   The travel trailer or travel vehicle and associated use must be
permissible in any preexisting, underlying zoning use district.
      2.   Areas Exempted For Placement Of Travel/Recreational Vehicles:
         (a)   Individual lots or parcels of record.
         (b)   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds.
         (c)   Existing condominium type associations.
      3.   Additions And Accessory Structures: Travel trailers and travel
vehicles exempted in subsection (N)1 of this section lose this exemption when
development occurs on the parcel exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a
structural addition to the travel trailer/travel vehicle or an accessory
structure such as a garage or storage building. The travel trailer/travel
vehicle and all additions and accessory structures will then be treated as a
new structure and shall be subject to the elevation requirements and the use of
land restrictions specified in subsection (F) of this section. There shall be
no development or improvement on the parcel or attachment to the recreational
vehicle that hinders the removal of the recreational vehicle to a flood free
location should flooding occur.
      4.   Subject To Floodplain Provisions: New commercial travel trailer or
travel vehicle parks or campgrounds and new residential type subdivisions and
condominium associations and the expansion of any existing similar use
exceeding five (5) units or dwelling sites shall be subject to the following:
         (a)   Any new or replacement travel trailer or travel vehicle will be
allowed in the floodway or flood fringe districts provided said trailer or
vehicle and its contents are placed on fill above the regulatory flood
protection elevation determined in accordance with the provisions of subsection
(F)3 of this section and proper elevated road access to the site exists in
accordance with subsection (F) of this section. No fill placed in the floodway
to meet the requirements of this section shall increase flood stages of the
100-year or regional flood.
         (b)   All new or replacement travel trailers or travel vehicles not
meeting the criteria of subsection (N)4(a) of this section may, as an
alternative, be allowed if in accordance with the following provisions: The
applicant must submit an emergency plan for the safe evacuation of all vehicles
and people during the 100-year flood. Said plan shall be prepared by a
registered engineer or other qualified individual and shall demonstrate that
adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the evacuation, and shall
demonstrate the provisions of subsections (N)1(a) and (N)1(b) of this section
will be met. All attendant sewage and water facilities for new or replacement
travel trailers or other recreational vehicles must be protected or constructed
so as to not be impaired or contaminated during times of flooding in accordance
with subsection (F) of this section. (Ord. 011-640, 11-7-2011; amd. Ord. 021-
761, 8-16-2021)
 
Notes
1 1 See section
  10-5-21  of this chapter.
10-5-21: AMENDMENTS ADOPTED:
Changes to an alteration of the zoning district map shall be made only by
ordinance and said ordinance amendment shall be incorporated into this section
of the code by setting forth the date, ordinance number and nature of the
amendment.
   (A)   Adoption: This zoning ordinance and official zoning district map, as
may be amended from time to time, was put to a public hearing on March 3, 1986,
was adopted by the council as ordinance 086-177 on March 17, 1986, and was
published, in summary form, in the official newspaper, the "Farmington
Independent", on June 4, 1986. (Ord. 086-177, 3-17-1986; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-
19-2002; Ord. 002-473, 5-6-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003; Ord. 009-609, 10-19-
2009; Ord. 012-653, 11-19-2012)
   (B)   Amendments:
      1.   Ordinance no. 085-170 adopted the fifth day of August, 1985, rezoned
from R-3 high density residential to R-2 medium density residential the replat
of Westview Acres except block 5; Westview Acres - Mohn Addition; Westview
Acres Third; and parcel no. 14-03100-010-50 described as part of the NW1/4 of
the SW1/4, part of the SW1/4 of the SW1/4, part of the SE1/4 of the SW1/4, and
part of the NE1/4 of the SW1/4, all in Section 31, T114N, R20W, City of
Farmington (commonly described as the Senior High Property). Rezoned from R-
3 high density residential to planned unit development - Gils Addition. (Ord.
085-170, 8-5-1985; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      2.   Ordinance no. 086-176 adopted the eighteenth day of February, 1986,
rezones from R-1 low density residential to planned unit development, the S1/
2 of the NW1/4, Section 13, T114N, R20W, Town of Farmington. (Ord. 086-176, 2-
18-1986; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      3.   Ordinance no. 086-185 adopted the first day of December, 1986,
rezones the NE1/4 of the NW1/4 of Section 26, T114N, R20W from R-1, low density
residential to A-2 agricultural preserve district. (Ord. 086-185, 12-1-1986;
amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      4.   Ordinance no. 087-188 adopted the twentieth day of April, 1987,
rezones lots 4 - 15, block 3, Fair Hills Addition from R-3, high density
residential to R-1, low density residential. (Ord. 087-188, 4-20-1987; amd.
Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      5.   Ordinance no. 087-190 adopted the twentieth day of July, 1987,
rezones lots 1 - 3, the east 40 feet of 4, and lots 10 - 13, all in block 17,
town of Farmington from R-2, medium density residential to B-2, general
business district. (Ord. 087-190, 7-20-1987; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord.
003-498, 9-15-2003)
      6.   Ordinance no. 088-204 adopted the fifteenth day of August, 1988,
amends the planned unit development adopted by ordinance no. 086-176 by
changing the quad home lots to single-family lots. (Ord. 088-204, 8-15-1988;
amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      7.   Ordinance no. 089-219, adopted the twenty first day of August, 1989,
rezones lots 1 - 10, block 18, town of Farmington from B-3 Heavy Business
District to R-3 High Density Residential. (Ord. 089-219, 8-21-1989; amd. Ord.
002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      8.   Ordinance no. 089-220 adopted the twenty first day of August, 1989,
rezones from R-3 High Density Residential to Planned Unit Development, Lots 1-
10, Block 18, City of Farmington. (Ord. 089-220, 8-21-1989; amd. Ord. 002-469,
2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      9.   Ordinance no. 090-235, adopted the second day of July, 1990, rezones
the Outlot in the Northwest Corner of Fair Hills Addition from R-3 High Density
Residential to R-1 Low Density Residential. (Ord. 090-235, 7-2-1990; amd. Ord.
002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      10.   Ordinance no. 091-244, adopted the fourth day of March, 1991,
rezones the north one-half (1/2) of vacated Locust Street and adjoining Lot 9,
Block 5, City of Farmington from B-3 Heavy Business to R-3 High Density
Residential. (Ord. 091-244, 3-4-1991; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-
498, 9-15-2003)
      11.   Ordinance no. 091-245, adopted the fourth day of March, 1991,
rezones the East one-half (1/2) of the Northwest One Quarter of Section 23 from
R-1 Low Density Residential to A-2 Agricultural Preserve. (Ord. 091-245, 3-4-
1991; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      12.   Ordinance no. 092-262, adopted the third day of February, 1992,
rezones Lots 1 and 2, Block 16, Town of Farmington, from R-2 Medium Density
Residential to B-2 General Business District. (Ord. 092-262, 2-3-1992; amd.
Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      13.   Ordinance no. 092-283, adopted the seventeenth day of August, 1992,
adds a clarifying phrase to Ordinance No. 088-204 so that it reads: by changing
the Quad Home Lots to Single Family Lots in blocks 1 and 2 of the Fifth
Addition. (Ord. 092-283, 8-17-1992; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498,
9-15-2003)
      14.   Ordinance no. 092-282, adopted the seventeenth day of August, 1992,
rezones the west one-half (1/2) of the Northwest One Quarter of Section 23 from
A-1 Agricultural to A-2 Agricultural Preserve. (Ord. 092-282, 8-17-1992; amd.
Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      15.   Ordinance no. 092-287, adopted the tenth day of October, 1992,
rezones Lots 1-12, Block 18 and Lots 4, 5, 6 and a portion of Lot 7 west of the
railroad tracks in Block 25 from R-3 High Density PUD and B-3 Heavy Business to
B-2 General Business. (Ord. 092-287, 10-10-1992; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002;
Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      16.   Ordinance no. 093-300, adopted the first day of March, 1993,
rezones from R-2 Medium Density Residential to B-2 General Business District,
Lots 8 and 9, Block 17, Town of Farmington. (Ord. 093-300, 3-1-1993; amd. Ord.
002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      17.   Ordinance no. 093-303, adopted the nineteenth day of April, 1993,
zones Wausau Supply Company land, containing approximately 13.5 acres of land
situated immediately southeast of the intersection of State Trunk Highway 3 and
the rail spur which serves it, I-1 Light Industrial. (Ord. 093-303, 4-19-1993;
amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      18.   Ordinance no. 093-305 adopted the third day of May, 1993 rezones
the area east of Trunk Highway #3, north of Trunk Highway 50 and south of
County Road #72, commonly referred to as East Farmington PUD containing 100
acres and legally described as follows:
Parcel 14-03200-011-28
Section 32, Twn 114, Range 19 - The N 100' of S 260' of S 1/2 of N 2/3 of SW 1/
4 of NW 1/4 lying W of line Parr and 233.92' E of E R/W of T.H. 3 exc. W
200.00'
Parcel 14-03200-012-28
S 1/2 of N 2/3 of SW 1/4 of NW 1/4 Ex N 180' ex S 100' and Ex Pt lying W of
Line Parr and 233.92' E of E r/W of TH 3
Parcel 14-03200-010-29
S 100' of S 1/2 of N 2/3 of SW 1/4 of NW 1/4 of Section 32
Parcel 14-03200-011-50
Section 32, Twn 114, Range 19 - W 1/2 of N 1/2 of SW 1/4 Ex. S 420' of N 1050'
of W 426.73' Ex N 300' of S 990' of W 200' ex N 10 acs.
Parcel 14-03200-011-51
NE 1/4 of SW 1/4 of 32-114-19
Parcel 14-03200-011-32
Pt of SW 1/4 of NW 1/4 com at SW cor of NW 1/4 N on Sec. Line 32-114-19, 140'E
318'N 160'W 87'N 140'E 1089'S 440'W to beg ex S 80' of W 326' of Section 32
Parcel 14-03200-010-57
10 acres of NW 1/4 of SW 1/4 ex W 286'
AND
The SE 1/4 of the NW 1/4 of Sec. 32, Twp 114, R19, Dakota County, Minnesota, ex
the N 66.00' thereof and also ex. the N 501.60' of the E 300.00' thereof
AND ALSO
The E 79' of the N 160' of the S 300' of the W 318' of said SW 1/4 of the NW 1/
4 of Sec. 32.
Parcel 14-03200-030-27
N 180' of mid 1/3 of SW 1/4 of NW 1/4 ex W 200' of 32-114-19
Parcel 14-03200-012-32
W 326' of SW 1/4 of NW 1/4 of 32-114-19
Parcel 14-03200-011-61
Sec. 32, Twn 114, R 19. E 70 acs of S 1/2 of SW 1/4 ex W 90' of N 180' ex Hwy
ex Hendersons Add ex Maple St. ext E 150' ex beg NE Lot 1, Bl 1, Henderson Add.
N 5.4' to N line E 103' S 180.4' W 103' N 175' to beg ex beg SW Cor Lot 8, Bl 2
Henderson Add N 105' E 183' S 333.71' W to E line of 10th St N to beg ex Parcel
14-03200-020-63
Parcel 14-03200-013-50
Sec. 32, Twn 114, R19. S 420' of N 1050' of W 426.73' of N 1/2 of SW 1/4 ex S
265' of W 219.45' and ex N 155' of W 200'
Parcel 14-03200-012-59
Sec. 32, Twn 114, R19. Pt of W 286' of N 10 acs of NW 1/4 of SW 1/4 lying N of
S 185' of N 325.5'
Parcel 14-03200-030-59
Sec. 32, Twn 114, R19. W 276' of S 60' of N 245.5' of NW 1/4 of SW 1/4 exc. W
200'
Parcel 14-03200-014-59
Sec. 32, Twn 114, R19. W 276' of N 45' of S 115' of N 255.5' of NW 1/4 of SW 1/
4 exc. W 200'
Parcel 14-03200-020-59
Sec. 32, Twn 114, R19. S 80' of N 325.5' of W 276' of NW 1/4 of SW 1/4 exc W
200' from R-1 (Low Density Residential) and R-3 (High Density Residential) to
R-2 (Medium Density Residential) Planned Unit Development. (Ord. 093-305, 5-3-
1993; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      19.   Ordinance no. 093-306, adopted the seventeenth day of May, 1993
zones the recently annexed area commonly referred to as East Farmington PUD
containing approximately 75 acres and legally described as:
The NE 1/4 of the SW 1/4 of Section 32, Township 114, Range 19 and the SE 1/
4 of the NW 1/4 of Section 32, Township 114, Range 19, except the N 66' thereof
and also except the S 435.60' of the N 501.60' of the East 300' thereof,
containing 75 acres, more or less as R-2 (Medium Density Residential) Planned
Unit Development (PUD). (Ord. 093-306, 5-17-1993; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002;
Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      20.   Ordinance no. 093-308, adopted the seventh day of June, 1993,
rezones the platted area of Riverside Estates, a 17.7 acre tract bounded on the
south by 208th Street, on the west by a pipeline easement and the north and
east by unplatted land, from R-3 High Density Residential to R-1 Low Density
Residential. (Ord. 093-308, 6-7-1993; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-
498, 9-15-2003)
      21.   Ordinance no. 093-311, adopted the nineteenth day of July, 1993,
rezones the PUD of Prairie Creek, a 112.13 acre undeveloped land area in
Section 13, situated south of Dakota County Estates and north of Silver Springs
on the east side of County Road 31, from R-1 to R-1 PUD. (Ord. 093-311, 7-19-
1993; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      22.   Ordinance no. 093-318 adopted the first day of November, 1993
rezones from R-2 Medium Density Residential to B-1 Limited Business that part
of the Southeast Quarter (SE 1/4) of Section 31, Township 114, Range 19, in the
City of Farmington bounded and described as follows:
Commencing at a point 40 feet East of the center line of Third Street in the
City of Farmington and 33 feet North of the center line of former State Trunk
Highway No. 1 (Ash Street) where it joins said Third Street, running thence
East along the North line of said highway 170 feet, thence North parallel with
Third Street 120 feet; thence West and parallel with the North line of said
highway 170 feet to the East line of Third Street; thence South 120 feet along
the East line of Third Street to the place of beginning. (Ord. 093-318, 11-1-
1993; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      23.   Ordinance no. 093-324 adopted the twentieth day of December, 1993
zones the land annexed to the City by Ordinances 092-271 and 092-272 owned by
Lavane and Helen Bung and Sidney and Norrie Hegseth, respectively, R-2 Medium
Density Residential described as follows:
14-03000-040-82
The E 80' of the following described tract of land, to wit: All that part of
the S 1/2 of the SE 1/4 of Sec. 30, TWP 114, R19, described as follows:
Commencing at a point 40' N of the NW corner of Lot 5 in Block 2 of Bung's
Addition, thence N 200', thence E 320', thence S 200', thence W 320' to the
place of beginning. Subject to and together with an Easement over the S 40' of
the last described tract for road purposes.
14-03000-012-81
That part of the SE 1/4 of Sec. 30, TWP 114, R19, described as follows:
Beg. at intersection of W line of 5th Street, City of Farmington, extended, and
the Section line between Sections 30 and 31, TWP 114, R19, thence E'ly along
the S line of said Sec. 30 a distance of 290.4' which is the point of beg.;
thence E'ly along the S line of said Sec. 30 to a point which lies 940' W of
the SE corner of said Sec. 30; thence N and parallel to the E line of said Sec.
30 a distance of 200'; thence W and parallel to the S line of said Sec. 30 to a
point which lies 200' N of the point of beg.; thence S 200' to the point of
beg.; except any portion of the above described property lying within all that
part of the S 1/2 of the SE 1/4 of Sec. 30, TWP 114, R19, described as follows,
to wit: Commencing at a point 40' N and 80' W of the NW corner of Lot 5, Block
2, Bung's Addition, thence W 80', thence N 200', thence E 80', thence S 200' to
the place of beg. (Ord. 093-324, 12-20-1993; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord.
003-498, 9-15-2003)
      24.   Ordinance no. 093-325 adopted the twentieth day of December, 1993
zones the land annexed to the City by Ordinance No. 092-281 and owned by Robert
F. Adelmann to I-1 Light Industrial legally described as follows:
14-00600-014-27
The W 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section 6, Township 114, Range 19W, Dakota County,
Minnesota Excepting therefrom railroad right of way and also excepting a tract
of land described as follows:
Beginning at the intersection of the E line of the said W 1/2 of the NW 1/4 and
the SE'ly ROW of the Milwaukee Railroad, said point lying 1,392.40' S of the NE
corner of the said W 1/2 of the NW 1/4; thence S along said E line a distance
of 320.0'; thence deflecting to the right at an angle of 104D44M30S a distance
of 393.50' to a point on the SE'ly ROW; thence NE'ly along said ROW a distance
of 440', more or less, to the point of beginning. ALSO EXCEPTING therefrom a
tract of land N and W of the CMSTP&P Railroad ROW, already annexed to the City
of Farmington. Subject to road and utility easements of record, if any.
Containing in all 75.43 acres, more or less, according to the Government Survey
thereof.
14-00600-010-28
All that part of the E 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section 6, T114, R19, lying W of
the ROW of the Iowa and Minnesota Division of the CMSTP Railway Company and S
of the ROW of the Farmington and Mankato Line of said CMSTP Railway Company as
are now located across said lands, being about 12 acres, more or less, being
the same lands conveyed to the within Grantee by William Nicolay and Belle
Nicolay, his wife, by Warranty Deed dated 10/1/1901, and recorded on 10/8/1901,
in Book 70 of Deeds; on page 447 of the records of Dakota County, State of
Minnesota, (recorded 4/29/1905, in Book 117, Page 320). A strip, belt or piece
of land, 100' wide, extending across in the NE'ly and SW'ly direction of all
that part of the E 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section 6, TWP 114, R19, which lies W
of the ROW of the Iowa and Minnesota Division of the CMSTP&P Railway Company.
The center of said strip being marked on the ground by a line of stakes, marked
(L) together with the strip of land 25' wide adjoining the ROW of said Iowa and
Minnesota Division of said railway, extending from the N line of said premises
herein before described to the point where said ROW running NE'ly and SW'ly
leaves said main line of said railway, all in Dakota County, Minnesota.
(Recorded 10/8/1901, in Book 110, Page 303)
14-00600-010-29
A strip, belt or piece of land 100' wide, extending across from the E side to
the W side of the W 1/2 of the W 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section 6, TWP 114, R19,
in the County of Dakota, State of Minnesota. Hereby conveying a strip of land
55' wide on each side of the C/L of the railway of said Company, as now located
and established across said land. (Recorded 6/16/1902, in Book 109, Page 155)
A strip, belt or piece of land, 100' wide, extending across from the E side to
the W side of the E 1/2 of the W 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section 6, TWP 114, R19,
in the County of Dakota, State of Minnesota. Hereby conveying a strip of land
50' wide on each side of the C/L of the railway of said Company, as now located
and established across said land. (Recorded 6/16/1902 in Book 109, Page 157)
A tract of land in the W 1/2 of the NW 1/4 of Section 6, TWP 114, R19,
described as follows: beginning at the intersection of the E line of said W 1/
2 of the NW 1/4 and the SE'ly ROW line of the Milwaukee Railroad, said point
lying 1,392.4' S of the NE corner of said W 1/2 of the NW 1/4; thence S and
along said E line a distance of 320.0'; thence deflecting to the right at an
angle of 104D44M30S a distance of 393.5' to a point on said SE'ly ROW; thence
NE'ly along said ROW a distance of 440' more or less to the point of beginning.
Containing 1.32 acres. (Recorded 2/7/1966, in Book 264, Page 351) (Ord. 093-
325, 12-20-1993; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      25.   Ordinance no. 094-333, adopted the 16th day of May, 1994, rezones
the PUD of Nelsen Hills Farm, 119.48 acre, 265 single family lot plus one
townhome lot, situated on the west side of County Road 31 in the SE Quarter of
Section 14 immediately north of the First and Second Additions of Nelsen Hills
Farm and 190th Street, from R-1 to R-1 PUD. (Ord. 094-333, 5-16-1994; amd. Ord.
002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      26.   Ordinance no. 094-338, adopted the 10th day of November, 1994,
approves the Schematic Plan for East Farmington PUD and the 176 acre
undeveloped farm land situated in the west one half of Section 32 zoned R-
2 PUD; and the revised PUD Plan reduces housing densities to 426 single family
lots and 132 multiple units but maintains expansion space for South Suburban
Medical Center and has provided two park sites totaling 8 acres. (Ord. 094-338,
11-10-1994; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      27.   Ordinance no. 095-350, adopted the 6th day of March, 1995, rezones
from R-1 Low Density Residential to B-1 Limited Business that part of the east
side of Highway 3 measuring 155 feet along the east frontage road and extending
easterly 219 feet directly north of the Budget Mart. (Ord. 095-350, 3-6-1995;
amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      28.   Ordinance no. 095-351, adopted the 6th day of March, 1995, rezones
119.48 acres undeveloped land area in Section 14 (Nelsen Hills Farm) from R-
1 to R-1 PUD. (Ord. 095-351, 3-6-1995; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-
498, 9-15-2003)
      29.   Ordinance no. 095-356, adopted the 5th day of June, 1995, rezones
the PUD of Deer Meadow, a 35 acre, 89 single family lot residential area
situated on the west side of County Road 31 in the NE Quarter of Section 14,
immediately north of Hill Dee Subdivision and not linked with Hill Dee
Subdivision by the northward extension of Euclid Avenue, from R-1 to R-1 PUD.
(Ord. 095-356, 6-5-1995; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      30.   Ordinance no. 096-370, adopted the 16th of January, 1996, approved
an increase in density of four housing units on Lots 1, 2 and 3 of Block 3 in
Dakota County Estates 9th Edition. (Ord. 096-370, 1-16-1996; amd. Ord. 002-469,
2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      31.   Ordinance no. 096-372, adopted the 18th day of March, 1996, rezones
Lot 5, Block 21, Original Town of Farmington, from B-2 General Business
District to R-2 Medium Density Residential. (Ord. 096-372, 3-18-1996; amd. Ord.
002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      32.   Ordinance no. 096-374, adopted the 17th day of June, 1996, rezones
Lots 8 and 9, Block 17, Town of Farmington, from B-2 General Business to R-
2 Medium Density Residential. (Ord. 096-374, 6-17-1996; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-
19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      33.   Ordinance no. 096-376, adopted the 5th day of August, 1996, rezones
Lot 9, Block 5, Town of Farmington, and the adjacent north one half of vacated
Locust Street from R-3 High Density Residential to R-2 Medium Density
Residential. (Ord. 096-376, 8-5-1996; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-
498, 9-15-2003)
      34.   Ordinance no. 096-377, adopted the 5th day of August, 1996, rezones
the south fifty-three feet (53') of the following described property:
Part of the Depot Grounds former CMSTP&P RR in Town of Farmington com. pt of
int of W'ly ext C/L Walnut St. & A L5 of E'ly meas at R/A & Par C/L MNTK Soo L
N10D 200.31F to Beg S 79D E perp to SD DAR L 60F N10D E Par C/L MNTK 255.98F to
W'ly Ext of C/L Spruce St. N89D E along SD W'ly ext 20.64F N 8D E 86.64F N 7D E
85.99F N 4D E 116.56F N 8D E 157.51F to W'ly Ext C/L Oak St. S 89D on SD W'ly
ext 54.83F to Pt. of Int with L50F E'ly of C/L MNTK Soo L S10D W 695F to Beg.
(Ord. 096-377, 8-5-1996; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      35.   Ordinance no. 096-379, adopted the 16th day of September, 1996,
rezones Lots 7 and 8, Block 5, Town of Farmington, and the vacant parcel
immediately to the north (Parcel No. 14-03100-010-63) from R-3 High Density
Residential to R-2 Medium Density Residential. (Ord. 096-379, 9-16-1996; amd.
Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      36.   Ordinance no. 096-380, adopted the 16th day of September, 1996,
rezones the vacant parcel (Parcel No. 14-03100-030-63) from R-3 High Density
Residential to B-2 General Business. (Ord. 096-380, 9-16-1996; amd. Ord. 002-
469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      37.   Ordinance no. 096-384, adopted the 16th day of December, 1996,
rezones the 13.73 acres known as Cameron Woods in Section 14 from R-1 Low
Density Residential to R-1 Planned Unit Development. (Ord. 096-384, 12-16-1996;
amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      38.   Ordinance no. 097-387, adopted the 3rd day of February, 1997, which
amends the Prairie Creek PUD by rezoning the "Stegmaier Homestead" from R-1 PUD
to B-1 Limited Business. (Ord. 097-387, 2-3-1997; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002;
Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      39.   Ordinance no. 096-371, adopted the 20th day of February, 1996,
rezones the 55.4 acres in the NE 1/4 of Section 23, immediately north of
TroyHill Subdivision, as Planned Unit Development (PUD). This PUD, commonly
referred to as TroyHill PUD, contains 133 single-family residential lots, and
is an extension of the TroyHill Plat approved in 1994. (Ord. 096-371, 2-20-
1996; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      40.   Ordinance no. 097-392, adopted the 17th day of March, 1997,
approves the PUD of Pine Ridge Forest in Section 14, and rezones the 30.24
acres of land known as Pine Ridge Forest from R-1 Low Density Residential to R-
1 Planned Unit Development. (Ord. 097-392, 3-17-1997; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-
2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      41.   Ordinance no. 097-403, adopted the 6th day of October, 1997,
rezones the North 84' of the West One Half of Lot 5 and the North 84' of Lot 6,
all in Block 27, Town of Farmington (Parcel Number 14-77000-061-27) from R-
3 High Density Residential to R-2 Medium Density Residential. (Ord. 097-403,
10-6-1997; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      42.   Ordinance no. 097-408, adopted the 3rd day of November, 1997,
approves the PUD of Charleswood in Sections 23, 25 and 26, and rezones the 396
acres of land known as Charleswood from R-1 Low Density Residential to R-
3 Planned Unit Development. (Ord. 097-408, 11-3-1997; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-
2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      43.   Ordinance no. 098-412, adopted the 2nd day of March, 1998, rezones
the Giles/Ristow property from A-1 to B-1 (2.17 acres) and R-3 (9.7 acres)
contingent upon revising the legal description for the property. (Ord. 098-412,
3-2-1998; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      44.   Ordinance no. 098-413, adopted the 2nd day of March, 1998, rezones
the Adelmann/Allen property from A-1 Agriculture to R-3 High Density
Residential. (Ord. 098-413, 3-2-1998; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-
498, 9-15-2003)
      45.   Ordinance no. 098-415, adopted the 3rd day of August, 1998, rezones
the Robert Adelmann/St. Michael's Catholic Church property from I-1 to R-
1 contingent upon revising the legal description for the property. (Ord. 098-
415, 8-3-1998; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      46.   Ordinance no. 098-418, adopted the 16th day of November, 1998,
rezones the Jack Benedict property from R-1 PUD to R-2 PUD. (Ord. 098-418, 11-
16-1998; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      47.   Ordinance no. 099-425, adopted the 1st day of March, 1999, rezones
the Arlendar Nordvik/JDS Properties property from R-2 to B-4. (Ord. 099-425, 3-
1-1999; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      48.   Ordinance no. 099-428, adopted on the 19th day of April, 1999,
rezones properties north of County Road 72 from A-1 to R-1 contingent upon:
         1.   Approval of the amendment to the Comprehensive Plan from
Agriculture to Low Density Residential; and
         2.   Subject to Metropolitan Council approval of the Comprehensive
Plan Amendment application. (Ord. 099-428, 4-19-1999; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-
2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      49.   Ordinance no. 099-435, adopted the 21st day of June, 1999, rezones
Lot 3 Block 16, the Lamberts Lumber property from R-2 to B-2, contingent on
maintaining the B-2 zone designation for Lots 1 and 2, Block 16. (Ord. 099-435,
6-21-1999; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      50.   Ordinance no. 099-443, adopted the 6th day of December, 1999,
rezones the legally described property from C-1 and A-1 to R-1.
Subject property is legally described as:
DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY SURVEYED:
That part of the Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter of Section 25,
Township 114, Range 20, Dakota County, Minnesota which lies northeasterly and
northerly at the following described line; commencing at the northeast corner
of said Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter; thence South 89 degrees 33
minutes 09 seconds West an assumed bearing along the north line of said
Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter a distance of 1034.70 feet to the
point of beginning of said line to be described; thence South 35 degrees 24
minutes 51 seconds East a distance of 890.65 feet; thence South 25 degrees 57
minutes 51 seconds East a distance of 199.72 feet; thence North 64 degrees 07
minutes 09 seconds East a distance of 53.49 feet, thence northeasterly and
easterly a distance of 92.09 feet along a tangential curve concave to the south
having a radius of 200.00 feet and a central angle of 26 degrees 22 minutes 56
seconds; thence South 89 degrees 29 minutes 55 seconds East tangent to last
described curve a distance of 295.16 feet to the point of intersection of the
East line of said Northeast Quarter of the Southeast Quarter and a line drawn
parallel with an distant 870.00 feet South of the North line of the Northwest
Quarter of the Southwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 114, Range 19, in said
Dakota County and said line there terminating.
AND ALSO:
The North 870.00 feet of the West 150.00 feet of the Northwest Quarter of the
Southwest Quarter of Section 30, Township 114, Range 19, Dakota County,
Minnesota.
(Ord. 099-443, 12-6-1999; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-
2003)
      51.   Ordinance no. 000-448, adopted the 7th day of February, 2000,
rezoning DR Horton/Arcon Development, Inc., property from R-1 to R-3 PUD. (Ord.
000-448, 2-7-2000; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      52.   Ordinance no. 000-449, adopted the 7th day of February, 2000,
rezoning James Development Company property from A-1 to R-3 PUD. (Ord. 000-449,
2-7-2000; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      53.   Ordinance no. 000-452, adopted the 3rd day of April, 2000, rezoning
certain property from R-1 to R-3 PUD. (Ord. 000-452, 4-3-2000; amd. Ord. 002-
469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      54.   Ordinance no. 000-447, adopted the 3rd day of January, 2000,
rezoning the Wenzel property from R-1 to R-3. (Ord. 000-447, 1-3-2000; amd.
Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      55.   Ordinance no. 000-456, adopted the 6th day of November, 2000,
rezoning the Donnelly property from A-2 to R-1. (Ord. 000-456, 11-6-2000; amd.
Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      56.   Ordinance no. 001-458, adopted the 16th day of January, 2001,
rezoning the Jim Allen property from R-1 (low density) to R-2 (medium density)
and R-3 (high density). (Ord. 001-458, 1-16-2001; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002;
Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      57.   Ordinance no. 001-459, adopted the 5th day of February, 2001,
rezoning the Grace M. Seed family trust, Astra Projects, Inc., James M. Seed
and Astra Genstar Partnership, L.L.P. property from R-1 and F-3 to R-2 PUD
contingent upon:
         1.   The delineation of the floodplain; and
         2.   Approval of a letter of map revision from FEMA. (Ord. 001-459, 2-
5-2001; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      58.   Ordinance no. 001-460, adopted the 5th day of March, 2001, rezoning
subject property located between the Charleswood PUD and Pilot Knob Road from
R-1 (low density) to R-3 PUD. (Ord. 001-460, 3-5-2001; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-
2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      59.   Ordinance no. 001-464, adopted the 21st day of May, 2001, rezoning
certain property from R-1 (low density) to R-3 PUD, consistent with the Middle
Creek property previously rezoned pursuant to ordinance no. 000-448. (Ord. 001-
464, 5-21-2001; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      60.   Ordinance no. 001-466, adopted the 16th day of July, 2001, rezoning
the Benham property from A-1 (agriculture) to B-1 (limited business). (Ord.
001-466, 7-16-2001; amd. Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      61.   Ordinance no. 002-468, adopted the 22nd day of January, 2002,
rezoning certain property from R-2 (medium density) to B-3 (heavy business).
(Ord. 002-468, 1-22-2002; amd. Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      62.   Ordinance no. 002-478, adopted the 15th day of July, 2002, rezoning
213th Street except for that part for State Trunk Highway 3 from R-1 (low
density residential) to R-2 (low/medium density residential).
      63.   Ordinance no. 002-478, adopted the 15th day of July, 2002, rezoning
301 Main Street except for that part of the former railroad right of way and
305 Main Street except for that part of the former railroad right of way from
R-2 (low/medium density residential) to R-T (downtown transitional). (Ord. 002-
478, 7-15-2002; amd. Ord. 003-498, 9-15-2003)
      64.   Ordinance no. 003-499, adopted the 15th day of September, 2003,
amending the zoning map for properties located within the Spruce Street master
plan area from business park, agriculture, and single-family residential to
business/commercial flex, mixed use, medium density residential, and high
density residential. (Ord. 003-499, 9-15-2003)
      65.   Ordinance no. 003-502, adopted the 18th day of February, 2003,
amending the zoning map of the city of Farmington for properties located within
the Knutsen property from business park, to Spruce Street commercial and
environmentally sensitive. (Ord. 003-502, 2-18-2003)
      66.   Ordinance no. 004-510, adopted the 19th day of July, 2004, amending
the zoning map of the city of Farmington for the property located at 213 8th
Street from R-2 (low/medium density residential) to B-1 (highway business).
(Ord. 004-510, 7-19-2004)
      67.   Ordinance no. 004-518, adopted the 20th day of September, 2004,
amending the zoning map of the city of Farmington for the Parkview Ponds
property from A-1 (agriculture) to R-1 (low density residential). (Ord. 004-
518, 9-20-2004)
      68.   Ordinance no. 005-525, adopted the 7th day of March, 2005, rezones
the Farmington business park property from A-1 to PUD. (Ord. 005-525, 3-7-2005)
      69.   Ordinance no. 005-528, adopted the 18th day of April, 2005, amends
the zoning map of the city of Farmington for property located at 1024 8th
Street from R-2 to B-1. (Ord. 005-528, 4-18-2005)
      70.   Ordinance no. 005-529, adopted the 16th day of May, 2005, rezones
Middle Creek third addition from R-3 PUD to R-1 PUD. (Ord. 005-529, 5-16-2005)
      71.   Ordinance no. 005-532, adopted the 16th day of May, 2005, rezones
Executive Estates from A-1 to R-1. (Ord. 005-532, 5-16-2005)
      72.   Ordinance no. 005-533, adopted the 6th day of June, 2005, rezones
Hometown addition from A-1 to R-2. (Ord. 005-533, 6-6-2005)
      73.   Ordinance no. 005-534, adopted the 6th day of June, 2005, rezones
Mystic Meadows first addition from A-1 to R-1 and R-3. (Ord. 005-534, 6-6-2005)
      74.   Ordinance no. 005-535, adopted the 20th day of June, 2005, rezones
the John Devney property from IP to B-1. (Ord. 005-535, 6-20-2005)
      75.   Ordinance no. 005-536, adopted the 20th day of June, 2005, rezones
the Airlake Development, Inc. (Patrick Regan) property from IP to B-1. (Ord.
005-536, 6-20-2005)
      76.   Ordinance no. 006-551, adopted the 21st day of February, 2006,
rezones the property located at 21054 Chippendale Court. (Ord. 006-551, 2-21-
2006)
      77.   Ordinance no. 006-553, adopted the 20th day of March, 2006, rezones
the property known as Sunrise Ponds PUD. (Ord. 006-553, 3-20-2006)
      78.   Ordinance no. 006-554, adopted the 17th day of April, 2006, rezones
the Bauer property located at 22068 Canton Court from A-1 to B-3. (Ord. 006-
554, 4-17-2006)
      79.   Ordinance no. 006-555, adopted the 15th day of May, 2006, rezones
the 6 properties located at 3400 220th Street W., 3338 220th Street W., 3360
220th Street W., 3050 220th Street W., 3282 220th Street W., and 3240 220th
Street W. from A-1 to B-3. (Ord. 006-555, 5-15-2006)
      80.   Ordinance no. 006-557, adopted the 19th day of June, 2006, rezones
the ISD #192 property on the west side of Flagstaff Avenue from A-1 to R-1.
(Ord. 006-557, 6-19-2006)
      81.   Ordinance no. 006-558, adopted the 17th day of July, 2006, rezones
the Vermillion Trail first addition property from A-1 to R-1. (Ord. 006-558, 7-
17-2006)
      82.   Ordinance no. 006-559, adopted the 21st day of August, 2006,
rezones the property known as Winkler property from A-1 to R-2 and R-3. (Ord.
006-559, 8-21-2006)
      83.   Ordinance no. 006-560, adopted the 21st day of August, 2006,
rezones the property located at 3782 220th Street West from A-1 to R-2. (Ord.
006-560, 8-21-2006)
      84.   Ordinance no. 006-565, adopted the 20th day of November, 2006,
rezones the property known as the King property from A-1 to R-1. (Ord. 006-565,
11-20-2006)
      85.   Ordinance no. 006-567, adopted the 18th day of December, 2006,
rezones the property known as the Bugbee property from A-1 to B-1. (Ord. 006-
567, 12-18-2006)
      86.   Ordinance no. 007-569, adopted the 16th day of January, 2007,
rezones the property known as Twin Ponds Addition from R-4 to R-1. (Ord. 007-
569, 1-16-2007)
      87.   Ordinance no. 007-570, adopted the 16th day of January, 2007,
rezones the property known as the Fountain Valley property from A-1 to R-1, R-
2, R-3, B-1, and P/OS. (Ord. 007-570, 1-16-2007)
      88.   Ordinance no. 009-616, adopted the 2nd day of November, 2009,
rezones the properties located at 913 10th Street and 1001 Ash Street from R-
3 to R-2. (Ord. 009-616, 11-2-2009)
      89.   Ordinance no. 011-639, adopted the 17th day of October, 2011,
rezones the properties known as the Feely properties located at 104 Oak Street
and 407 1st Street from B-3 to R-T. (Ord. 011-639, 10-17-2011)
      90.   Ordinance no. 012-654, adopted the 19th day of November, 2012,
rezones the property addressed as 3410 213th Street West and legally described
as Lot 1, Block 1, Trinity Health Care 1st Addition from R-5 (High Density
Residential) to R-5 PUD. (Ord. 012-654, 11-19-2012)
      91.   Ordinance no. 013-662, adopted the 15th day of April, 2013, zones
the properties identified within the Empire orderly annexation area (OAA).
(Ord. 013-662, 4-15-2013)
      92.   Ordinance 015-678, adopted the 20th day of January, 2015, rezones
the property commonly known as Dawson Meadows (CIC #564) and legally described
as Lots 13-16, 21-41, Block 3, Mystic Meadows 1st Addition from R-3 (Medium
Density Residential) to R-3 PUD. (Ord. 015-678, 1-20-2015)
      93.   Ordinance 017-723, adopted the 6th day of March, 2017, rezones the
property known as the Bongard Property and addressed as 20522 Akin Road from R-
1 (Low Density Residential) to B-4 (Neighborhood Business). (Ord. 017-723, 3-6-
2017)
      94.   Ordinance 017-728, adopted the 19th day of June, 2017, rezones
24.08 acres of the Sayers Property generally located at the northwest
intersection of CSAH 50 and Flagstaff Avenue from A-1 (Agriculture) to R-2
(Low/Medium Density Residential) planned unit development. (Ord. 017-728, 6-19-
2017)
      95.   Ordinance 018-740, adopted the 16th day of July, 2018, rezones 1.00
acres of property generally located south of County Road 66 and west and north
of Cascade Drive and legally described as outlot A Tamarack Ridge 4th Addition
from B-1 (Highway Commercial) to R-5 (High Density Residential). (Ord. 018-740,
7-16-2018; amd. Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021)
      96.   Ordinance 020-751, adopted the 18th day of May, 2020, rezones 40
acres of the Christensen property located at 20861 Flagstaff Avenue from A-1
(Agriculture) to R-3 (Medium Density Residential) Planned Unit Development.
(Ord. 020-751, 5-18-2020)
      97.   Ordinance 021-757, adopted the 17th day of May, 2021, rezones the
development known as Dakota Meadows from R-3 (Medium Density Residential) to R-
2 (Low/Medium Density Residential) Planned Unit Development. (Ordinance 021-
757, 5-17-2021)
      98.   Ordinance 021-758, adopted the 17th day of May, 2021, rezones the
eastern 26 acres of the development known as River's Edge from R-5 (High
Density Residential) to R-3 (Medium Density Residential). (Ord. 021-758, 5-17-
2021)
      99.   Ordinance 021-759, adopted the 7th day of June, 2021, rezones the
development known as Vita Attiva at South Creek from Business/Commercial Flex,
Mixed Use, R-5 (High Density Residential), and R-3 (Medium Density Residential)
to R-2 (Low/Medium Density Residential), R-3 (Medium Density Residential) and
Parks and Open Space. (Ord. 021-759, 6-7-2021)
      100.   Ordinance 022-767, adopted the 16th day of May, 2022, rezones the
property addressed as 100 5th Street from R-4 (High Density Residential) to B-
3 (General Business). (Ord. 022-767, 5-16-2022)
      101.   Ordinance 2024-01, adopted the 2nd day of January, 2024, rezones
the properties addressed 109 Elm Street and 113 Elm Street from R-4 (High
Density Residential) to B-2 (Downtown Business). (Ord. 2024-01, 1-2-2024)
      102.   Ordinance 2024-07, adopted the 17th day of June, 2024, rezones the
parcels with PID Numbers 14-25852-00-010 and 14-25852-00-020 from MUCI (Mixed
Use Commercial/Industrial) to I (Industrial). (Ord. 2024-07, 6-17-2024)
      103.   Ordinance 2024-11, adopted the 4th day of November, 2024, rezones
the following parcels as follows: PID#'s 07-00500-76-011 and 07-00500-76-012
(Angus properties) from A-1 (Agriculture) to MUCI (Mixed Use Commercial/
Industrial); and PID# 14-00500-01-012 (Fountain Valley Golf Course) from B-1
(Highway Business), R-1 (Low Density Residential), R-2 (Low/Medium Density
Residential), R-3 (Medium Density Residential) and P/OS (Park/Open Space) to
MUCI (Mixed Use Commercial/Industrial).
(Ord. 2024-11, 11-4-2024)
10-5-22: DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL OVERLAY (DC-O) DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this overlay district is to establish design
standards pertaining to the commercial, residential, and mixed use buildings in
the downtown commercial district. The design standards are intended to do the
following:
      1.   Encourage integrated site planning to create a cohesive, sustainable
built environment.
      2.   Maintain and reinforce "small town" and "main street" architectural
traditions.
      3.   Encourage an active, walkable, pedestrian environment.
      4.   Maintain the character of historic buildings.
      5.   Unify and articulate building facades.
      6.   Place a strong visual emphasis on streetscapes.
      7.   Require new construction to be compatible with existing buildings.
      8.   Provide for the compatible integration of commercial and residential
uses located on the edge of the downtown commercial district.
      9.   Encourage replacement or remodeling of architecturally incompatible
buildings.
      10.   Adaptively reuse older buildings that contribute to the district's
sense of time and place.
      11.   Encourage the development of pocket parks, gardens, plazas, and
courtyards for public use.
      12.   Establish well defined transitions (mixed use buildings) between
the downtown and adjacent neighborhoods.
   (B)   Overlay District Boundary: The downtown commercial overlay (DC-O)
district is described as the property located south of the Vermillion River,
west of 5th Street, north of Walnut Street and east of 1st Street.
   (C)   Process: The DC-O district design standards will be administered
through the site plan process in section
10-6-23 of this chapter and, if required under the design review process, in
section
2-11-5 of this code.
   (D)   Applicability: All new construction and renovations or additions of
exiting commercial, residential, and mixed use buildings in the DC-O district
will be required to meet the standards in this chapter, unless otherwise
provided. Projects exempt from meeting the standards are those buildings that
are comprised of any of the following project types:
      1.   Interior remodels;
      2.   Single-unit detached dwellings, two-unit dwellings, twin home
dwellings, and townhouse dwellings;
      3.   Normal or routine maintenance and repair of existing structures;
      4.   Construction that does not require a building permit.
   (E)   Building Material And Design:
      1.   In the case of new construction, renovations, or additions, seventy
percent (70%) or more of the total surface area of any building facade fronting
on a public street or open space shall consist of a mixture of two (2) or more
of the predominant downtown finish materials (clay, brick, stucco, natural
stone, ornamental concrete. Extruded metal storefront framing is allowed only
on window or door frames.
      2.   Transparency:
         (a)   For commercial and mixed use buildings, transparent glass must
comprise a minimum of fifty percent (50%) and a maximum of seventy-five percent
(75%) of the total wall area of the ground floor of any building facade
fronting on a public street or open space.
         (b)   For buildings with ground floor residential uses and all upper
floors, transparent glass or facade openings shall comprise a minimum of twenty
percent (20%) and a maximum of fifty percent (50%) of the total wall area.
Upper story windows will be vertically proportioned and have the visual
appearance of traditional double hung sash.
      3.   Blank, windowless walls facing a public street or open space are
prohibited, which is defined as not exceeding a horizontal distance of fifteen
(15) feet of a building’s facade.
      4.   Exterior walls shall not be covered with metal panels, EIFS
(exterior insulation and finish system), vinyl siding, faux half timbering,
logs, shakes, shingles, exposed aggregate, or poured in place concrete.
      5.   Preassembled clay brick panels, artificial stucco, decorative
precast units resembling stone, and other modern materials may be used that
similarly match the appearance of historic materials.
      6.   Standardized corporate or "trademark" commercial building types
shall be constructed to meet the architectural style of the downtown, which
includes building materials, glass, color, and signage.
      7.   The ground or street level of a building shall be visually
distinguished from the upper level(s) through the use of colors and/or building
materials.
      8.   Imitation of historical styles shall be encouraged in new
construction and renovation of existing buildings; references to historic
architectural styles and periods will be interpreted in a contemporary manner;
new and renovated buildings shall reinforce and not compete with heritage
landmark properties.
      9.   New commercial, residential, and mixed use buildings shall solidify
the relationship between old and new buildings and support a human scaled,
street oriented downtown environment. Infill construction on side streets shall
be designed with architectural features such as brick facades.
      10.   The massing and bulk of new buildings shall be mitigated by varied
massing and proper articulation of street facades. Large "big box" commercial
buildings shall be designed to appear as multiple storefronts by breaking the
facade into smaller bays of twenty (20) feet in width in order to maintain a
pattern integrated with and similar to surrounding buildings.
      11.   The size, scale, massing, and facade materials of new construction
shall complement the architectural character of existing historic buildings
identified as heritage landmarks.
      12.   Corner buildings shall be designed with two (2) street facades and
a main entrance on both sides.
      13.   Rooflines shall be flat or gently sloping.
   (F)   Awnings/Canopies:
      1.   Awnings/canopies shall only be allowed over the ground floor window
openings and along the frontage of all building entrances.
      2.   Awnings and canopies shall not project more than five feet (5') into
the public right of way, except where located above an entrance, in which case
the maximum projection shall not exceed eight (8) feet. Awnings and canopies
shall not be supported by poles or other structural elements located in the
public right of way.
      3.   Awnings and canopies shall emphasize the rhythm of the facade bays,
windows and entrances, and shall not continue uninterrupted along the building
facade.
      4.   The bottom of awnings and canopies shall be at least eight feet (8')
above sidewalk grade.
      5.   Illumination: Backlit awnings and canopies are not permitted.
      6.   Inscription: Lettering on awnings and canopies shall comply with
subsection
10-6-3(B)1(k) of this chapter.
      7.   Materials: Awning and canopy materials should be limited to cotton,
acrylic or vinyl coated cotton, copper or bronze coated metal, or clear glass.
Awnings shall be designed with a slope. No horizontal awnings are allowed.
Structural supports shall be constructed of steel and/or aluminum and shall (if
or where visible) incorporate ornamental features.
   (G)   Parking Areas:
      1.   Required off street parking spaces shall be provided by surface
parking areas located at the rear or sides of a building and provided with
architecturally compatible security lighting, and screened with landscape
buffers or low walls.
      2.   Underground and above-ground parking structures shall be encouraged
and new parking structures shall be compatible with (but not indistinguishable
from) adjacent buildings in terms of height, scale, massing, and materials.
   (H)   Screening and Fencing:
      1.   Screening of Exterior Uses: Screening of service yards, refuse, and
waste removal areas, loading docks, truck parking areas and other areas which
tend to be unsightly shall be accomplished by use of walls, fencing, dense
planting, or any combination of these elements. Screening shall block views
from public rights of way, private street, public open space, mid-block
pedestrian way, and off street parking areas, and shall be equally effective in
winter and summer. Fencing for screening purposes may be installed at a height
of up to eight (8) feet, with the approval of a building permit. Fencing used
for screening purposes shall only be allowed in the side and rear yards.
Chainlink and slatted fencing are prohibited within the downtown commercial
overlay district. Fencing on property lines adjacent to established residential
uses shall consist of wood or vinyl.
      2.   Screening of Mechanical Equipment: Mechanical equipment, satellite
dishes, and other utility hardware, whether located on the roof or exterior of
the building or on the ground adjacent to it, shall be screened from the public
view with materials identical to or strongly similar to building materials, or
by landscaping that will be effective in winter, or they shall be located so as
not to be visible from any public right of way, private street, public open
space, mid-block pedestrian way, or off street parking area. In no case shall
wooden fencing be used as a rooftop equipment screen.
      3.   Decorative Fencing: All fencing [with the exception of fencing
identified in the screening requirements of subsection (H)1 of this section]
visible from a public right of way, private street, public open space, mid-
block pedestrian way, or off street parking area shall not exceed a height of
six (6) feet in the side and rear yards and four (4) feet in the front yards.
Decorative fencing shall consist only of the following materials:
         (a)   Wrought iron.
         (b)   Vinyl.
         (c)   Ornamental aluminum.
      4.   Historic Landmarks: No fencing shall be attached to any historic
landmark building or structure. (Ord. 012-645, 6-18-2012)
   (I)   Signs:
      1.   Notwithstanding contrary provisions in this code the following signs
are allowed in the DC-O overlay district:
         (a)   Projecting in compliance with subsection
10-6-3(B)5(e) of this chapter.
         (b)   Wall signs in compliance with subsection
10-6-3(B)3(a) of this chapter.
         (c)   Monument signs where existing building is set back from front
property line in compliance with subsection
10-6-3(B)3(b) of this chapter.
         (d)   Painted wall signs through a conditional use permit in
compliance with subsection
10-6-3(B)1(l) of this chapter.
         (e)   A-frame signs in compliance with subsection
10-6-3(B)1(t) of this chapter.
      2.   Signs on historic landmark buildings shall: a) not cause damage to
historic architectural features or building materials as a result of
installation; and b) be designed and installed in such a manner that when they
are removed or replaced there is no physical evidence of their former presence.
In other words, holes shall not be drilled in historic masonry, alterations
shall not be made of historic character defining windows or doors, and
fasteners shall not be attached to any historic trim. (Ord. 010-627, 9-20-2010;
amd. Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021)
10-5-23: HIGHWAY 3 OVERLAY (HW3-O) DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this overlay district is to establish design
standards pertaining to the commercial and residential uses along the Highway 3
corridor in Farmington. The design standards are intended to do the following:
      1.   Encourage integrated site planning to create a cohesive, sustainable
built environment.
      2.   Establish architectural requirements for commercial and multi-family
residential uses.
      3.   Unify and articulate building facades.
      4.   Place a strong emphasis on improving the visual aesthetic of the
corridor.
      5.   Provide for the compatible integration of commercial and residential
uses along the corridor.
      6.   Encourage replacement or remodeling of architecturally incompatible
buildings.
   (B)   Overlay District Boundary: The Highway 3 overlay (HW3-O) district
shall be defined with a northern limit of Vermillion River Trail (County Hwv
66). a southern limit of 225th Street W. and extending one block east to 7th
Street and one block west of Highway 3 to 9th Street.
   (C)   Process: The HW3-O overlay district design standards will be
administered through the site plan process in section
10-6-23 of this chapter and, if required under the design review process, in
section
2-11-5 of this code.
   (D)   Applicability: All new construction and renovations or additions of
existing commercial, multi-family, and mixed use buildings in the HW3-O overlay
district will be required to meet the standards in this chapter, unless
otherwise provided. Projects exempt from meeting the standards are those
buildings that are comprised of any of the following project types:
      1.   Interior remodels:
      2.   One- and two-family (duplex) residences, twin homes, and townhouses;
      3.   Normal or routine maintenance and repair of existing structures;
      4.   Construction that does not require a building permit.
   (E)   Building Materials and Design:
      1.   Commercial Buildings:
         (a)   The exterior materials shall consist of brick, stone, vinyl or
cement siding only.
         (b)   Metal paneling is allowed as an accessory material but shall not
consist of more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total building facade.
         (c)   Tilt-up concrete paneling is not permitted.
         (d)   A mix of materials is required to enhance the overall aesthetic
of buildings and of the corridor as a whole.
         (e)   Multi-tenant buildings shall provide variation in roof line to
depict individual commercial businesses.
         (f)   Transparent glass shall comprise a minimum of forty percent
(40%) and a maximum of seventy-five percent (75%) of the total wall area of the
first floor elevation on any street facade.
         (g)   Transparent glass shall comprise a minimum of twenty percent
(20%) and a maximum of fifty percent (50%) of the total wall area on the upper
floor elevations of any street facade.
      2.   Multi-family Residential Buildings:
         (a)   The exterior materials shall consist of brick, stone, vinyl or
cement siding only.
         (b)   Metal paneling is allowed as an accessory material but shall not
consist of more than ten percent (10%) of the total building facade.
         (c)   A mix of materials is required to enhance the overall aesthetic
of buildings and of the corridor as a whole.
   (F)   Signage Standards: In addition to the requirements of Chapter
10-6-3 of the City Code, the following architectural standards are required for
pylon and monument identification signs:
      1.   Pylon and monument signs shall be designed to be complementary to
the buildings and uses to which they relate and shall be harmonious with their
surroundings.
      2.   The supporting pole or structure of a pylon sign may not be solely
metal: it shall be wrapped in a material complementary to the building to which
it relates.
   (G)   Exterior Commercial Lighting Standards: In addition to the
requirements of Chapter
10-6-8 of the City Code, the following exterior lighting standards are required
for commercial buildings:
      1.   All building facade and parking lot lighting shall be downcast so as
to eliminate light pollution spreading into adjacent residential areas.
(Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 1-16-2024)
10-5-24: SPRUCE STREET OVERLAY (SS-O) DISTRICT:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this overlay district is to establish design
standards pertaining to the commercial and residential uses in the Spruce
Street area west of downtown Farmington and the Vermillion River. The design
standards are intended to do the following:
      1.   Encourage integrated site planning to create a cohesive, sustainable
built environment.
      2.   Provide design elements and building and site relationships that
emulate traditional main street form.
      3.   Encourage an active, walkable, pedestrian environment,
      4.   Place a strong visual emphasis on streetscapes.
      5.   Encourage the development of pocket parks, gardens, plazas, and
courtyards for public use.
      6.   Provide for the compatible integration of commercial and residential
uses within a mixed use area.
      7.   Establish architectural requirements for commercial and multi-family
residential uses.
      8.   Require new construction to be compatible with existing buildings.
   (B)   Overlay District Boundary: The Spruce Street Overlay (SS-O) district
shall be defined with a northern limit of Hwy 50. a southern limit of Spruce
Street (including mixed use zoning districts south of Spruce Street), an
eastern limit of the Vermilion River corridor, and a western limit of Pilot
Knob Road.
   (C)   Process: The SS-O overlay district design standards will be
administered through the site plan process in section
10-6-23 of this chapter and, if required under the design review process, in
section
2-11-5 of this code.
   (D)   Applicability: All new construction and renovations or additions of
existing commercial, residential, and mixed use buildings in the SS-O overlay
district will be required to meet the standards in this chapter, unless
otherwise provided. Projects exempt from meeting the standards are those
buildings that are comprised of any of the following project types:
      1.   Interior remodels;
      2.   Townhouses;
      3.   Normal or routine maintenance and repair of existing structures;
      4.   Construction that does not require a building permit.
   (E)   Site Design Standards:
      1.   Sidewalks: Sidewalks shall be provided on both sides of all streets.
Trails may be required instead of sidewalks as provided in the city's trail
master plan.
         (a)   All pedestrian walkways shall have and maintain a minimum
unobstructed pathway width of fifteen (15) feet along the north/south corridor
(i.e.. the first roadway constructed between CSAH 50 and Spruce Street, west of
Denmark Avenue) and within the mixed use districts. Pedestrian walkways
bordering off street parking areas shall be at least eight (8) feet wide.
Pedestrian and bicycle pathways connecting to greenways or trail systems are
subject to standards in the city trail master plan.
         (b)   Walkways shall be designed to create a safe and uninterrupted
pedestrianway and to avoid frequent crossings by driveways and streets.
         (c)   Pedestrian walkways shall be designed as amenity areas with
approved landscaping, benches, lighting, signage, and street furniture.
         (d)   Pavers shall be required within the sidewalk design and within
the crosswalk areas. Installation of the pavers shall comply with city
standards.
         (e)   Electrical and water services shall be required within the
sidewalk areas to prepare for amenities including (but not limited to) water
fountains, clocks, kiosks and seasonal lighting, and shall be master planned
during the design phase of the project.
      2.   Lighting: At the time of site plan review for the development, a
detailed lighting plan shall be submitted.
         (a)   The lighting in the Spruce Street area shall be designed to
create a well-balanced, integrated lighting plan for public and private
locations that enhances vehicular and pedestrian visibility while minimizing
glare and contrast.
         (b)   Light fixtures shall be oriented to pedestrian circulation so
that pedestrian walkways are emphasized and safety is enhanced.
         (c)   Any lighting required on the perimeter of parking lots or along
streets shall consist of fixtures illustrated in the city's standard detail
plate as "streetlight - downtown district".
         (d)   The interior portions of parking lots may be lit with cobra
lights.
      3.   Required Amenities: For each development, one of the following
amenities per ten (10) acres of net developable land area shall be required and
installed at the time of construction of the project. The amenities shall be
highly visible, easily accessible outdoor focal points or gathering places for
residents, employees, and visitors to the development site.
         (a)   Patio and/or plaza with permanent seating areas: provided such
patio or plaza has a minimum depth of fifteen (15) feet and a minimum total
area of three hundred (300) square feet. Patios and plazas shall include
pedestrian amenities intended to support these places as gathering areas such
as benches, water features, kiosks, etc.
         (b)   Landscaped mini-park, sguare. or green, provided such amenity
has a minimum depth and width of fifteen (15) feet and a minimum total area of
six hundred fifty (650) sguare feet, and includes pedestrian amenities intended
to support these places as gathering areas. The landscaped mini-parks, sguares
or greens do not count toward the park dedication requirements.
         (c)   Protected customer walkway, arcade, or easily identifiable
building pass through containing window displays and intended for general
public access.
         (d)   Water feature, such as a pond or fountain, provided the feature
is easily accessed by pedestrians and includes or integrates permanent seating
areas for pedestrians.
         (e)   Any other well designed area and/or focal feature that the city
finds consistent with the intent of these design standards, and that
substantially enhances such development and serves as a gathering place for
residents, visitors, customers, and employees.
   (F)   Building Architectural Standards:
      1.   Fronts of Buildings: Any building face and yard that abuts CSAH 50,
Spruce Street, or Pilot Knob shall be considered a front and shall reflect a
level of aesthetic treatment egual to or greater than that of building faces
and yards that abut the north-south corridor and the major roads in the mixed
use districts.
      2.   Unifying Design Theme: Buildings and/or streetscapes in the Spruce
Street area shall reflect a unifying design theme that incorporates features
found along the north/south corridor and within the mixed use districts. City
staff and the planning commission shall determine whether development proposals
satisfy this requirement.
      3.   Exterior Surfaces: Major exterior surfaces of all walls shall be
face brick, stone, glass, stucco, architecturally treated concrete, cast in
place or precast panels, decorative block, or approved equivalent. as
determined by the city. The following may not be used in any visible exterior
application except when specifically permitted by the city in areas with
limited public view: exposed cement ("cinder") blocks: fabricated metal or pole
construction structures, including sheds, warehouses, and industrial buildings
constructed either on or off site of corrugated metal panels: exterior brick
that is painted over: or experimental materials with no proven record of
durability or ease of maintenance in the intended application.
      4.   Facade Design: Unless otherwise agreed to in writing by the
community development department, developers of buildings located along the
north/south corridor and within the mixed use districts shall use facade
variations to differentiate separately leased commercial spaces. Facade
variations shall incorporate modulated and articulated building wall planes and
rooflines through use of:
         (a)   Projections, recesses, and reveals expressing structural bays or
other aspects of the facade, with a minimum change of plane of six (6) inches.
         (b)   Changes in color or graphical patterns, changes in texture, or
changes in building material.
         (c)   Varying parapet heights and designs that demonstrate that the
buildings are different from each other and that add interest to the
streetscape.
         (d)   Recessed entrances.
         (e)   Building entrances that incorporate elements providing shade
from the sun and weather protection for pedestrians.
         (f)   Corners which are distinguishable from the remainder of the
building through the use of towers, architectural treatments, arches, roof
forms, or size and mass.
      5.   Building Facade Height: All buildings along the north/south corridor
and within the mixed use districts shall be constructed with at least one
functional or decorative (false facade) upper story. To the extent practical or
feasible, variations in rooflines or heights shall be used to differentiate
separately leased commercial spaces within buildings.
      6.   Windows: Windows shall be provided on walls that are adjacent to
public or private rights of way, parking lots and sidewalks. False windows are
allowed.
      7.   Awnings/Canopies: Buildings may have awnings/canopies that project
over the first floor windows and along the frontage of all building entrances.
         (a)   Projection: Awnings and canopies shall not project more than
five (5) feet into the public right of way, except where located above an
entrance, in which case the maximum projection shall not exceed eight (8) feet.
In no event should an awning or canopy be supported by poles or other
structural elements located in the public right of way.
         (b)   Length: Awnings and canopies should emphasize the rhythm of the
facade bays, windows and entrances, and shall not continue uninterrupted along
the building facade.
         (c)   Height: The bottom of awnings and canopies should be at least
eight (8) feet above sidewalk grade.
         (d)   Illumination: Backlit awnings and canopies are not permitted.
         (e)   Inscription: Lettering on awnings and canopies shall comply with
subsection
10-6-3(B)1(k) of this chapter.
         (f)   Materials: Awning and canopy materials should be limited to
cotton, acrylic or vinyl coated cotton, copper or bronze coated metal, or clear
glass. Other materials may be used if approved by the community development
department-Awnings shall be designed with a slope. No horizontal awnings are
allowed. Structural supports shall be constructed of steel and/or aluminum and
shall (if or where visible) incorporate ornamental features.
      8.   Public Entrances: For commercial buildings located along the north/
south corridor, each separate ground level tenant space shall have at least one
public entrance that faces the north/south corridor. For buildings located
within the mixed use districts, each separate ground level commercial tenant
space shall have at least one public entrance that faces the nearest major
public or private street. Developers shall be encouraged to also provide public
entrances adjacent to off street parking areas.
(Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021; amd. Ord. 2024-02, 1-16-2024)
CHAPTER 6
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SECTION:
10-6-1: Residential Swimming Pools
10-6-2: Home Occupations
10-6-3: Signs And Billboards
10-6-4: Off Street Parking
10-6-5: Off Street Loading
10-6-6: Accessory Structures
10-6-7: Temporary Structures
10-6-8: Exterior Lighting
10-6-9: Screening
10-6-10: Landscaping
10-6-11: Woodland And Tree Preservation
10-6-12: Fences
10-6-13: Display Of Vehicles For Sale
10-6-14: Towers, Monopoles, And Antennas
10-6-15: Recycling Facilities
10-6-16: Sexually Oriented Businesses
10-6-17: Wetland Standards
10-6-18: Shoreland Management Regulations
10-6-19: Manufactured Homes
10-6-20: Reserved
10-6-21: Reserved
10-6-22: Reserved
10-6-23: Site Plan Review
10-6-24: Bed And Breakfast Standards
10-6-25: Camping
10-6-26: Garage/Yard Sales
10-6-27: Erosion And Sediment Control
10-6-28: Reserved
10-6-29: Chickens On Urban Residential Lots
10-6-30: Limited Commercial Venture Standards
10-6-31: Cannabis Business Standards
10-6-1: RESIDENTIAL SWIMMING POOLS:
Any permanent outdoor pool structure, inground or aboveground, intended for
swimming, wading or recreational bathing and having a capacity of five thousand
(5,000) gallons or more shall be considered a swimming pool and shall require a
permit approved by the building inspections division, and must meet the
following location restrictions: (Ord. 006-562, 9-18-2006)
   (A)   General:
      1.   Pools shall not be located within ten feet (10') (measured
horizontally) from underground or overhead utility lines of all types.
      2.   Pools shall not be located within any private or public utility
drainage, walkway or other easement.
      3.   Pool lighting shall be directed toward the pool and not toward
adjacent property. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
      4.   Pool area shall be enclosed by a nonclimbable type safety fence or
barrier at least four feet (4') in height to prevent uncontrolled access to the
pool area. The fence shall have a self-closing and self-latching gate with its
latch located at least thirty eight inches to forty two inches (38" - 42")
above the ground level.
      5.   Storable pools do not require a fence or barrier provided all means
of access (ladders, etc.) are removed and the pool is covered when not
attended. Storable pools do not require a permit from the building inspections
division. (Ord. 006-562, 9-18-2006)
   (B)   Single-Family Residential:
      1.   Pools shall not be located within any required front, side and rear
yard setbacks and shall be at least six feet (6') from any principal structure
or frost footing.
      2.   In addition to observing yard setback requirements of each district,
the filter unit, pump, heating unit and any other noisemaking mechanical
equipment shall be located at least twenty five feet (25') from any residential
structure on adjacent property.
   (C)   Multiple-Family Residential:
      1.   Water surfaces and pumps, filter or other apparatus used in
connection with the pool shall not be located closer than fifty feet (50') to
any lot line.
      2.   Landscaping as outlined in section
10-6-10 of this chapter shall be placed between the pool area and adjoining low
density district lot lines.
      3.   Deck areas, adjoining patios or other areas used in conjunction with
the pool shall be located at least fifteen feet (15') from any lot line in an
adjoining low density district. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-6-2: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
The purpose of this section is to maintain the character and integrity of
residential areas and to provide a means through the establishment of specific
standards and procedures by which home occupations can be conducted in
residential neighborhoods, without jeopardizing the health, safety and general
welfare of the surrounding neighborhood. In addition, this section is intended
to provide a mechanism enabling the distinction between permitted home
occupations and special or non-conforming home occupations.
   (A)   Permitted Home Occupation:
      1.   Any permitted home occupation as defined in this section, and
subject to the performance standards of this section, may be conducted solely
within a residential principal or accessory structure without a permit or
special approval of the City.
      2.   Permitted home occupations shall not create a parking demand in
excess of that which can be accommodated in an existing driveway or guest
parking area for multiple family dwellings, where no vehicle is parked closer
than ten feet (10') from the curb line or edge of paved surface.
      3.   Permitted home occupations include and are limited to: art studio,
tailoring, secretarial services, consulting services, professional offices and
teaching with musical, dancing and other instructions which consist of no more
than one pupil at a time, and similar uses.
   (B)   Special Home Occupation:
      1.   Permit Required: Any home occupation which does not meet the
specific requirements for a permitted home occupation as defined in this
section shall require a "special home occupation permit" which shall be applied
for, reviewed and disposed of in accordance with the procedural provisions of
an interim use permit pursuant to section
10-3-7 of this title.
      2.   Examples: Examples of special home occupations include: barber and
beauty services, massage therapy, chiropractic office, photography studio,
group lessons, small appliances repair, the marketing of non-over the counter
brand name products, and the like.
      3.   Special Home Occupation: The special home occupation may involve any
of the following: stock-in-trade incidental to the performance of the service,
repair service or manufacturing which requires equipment other than customarily
found in a home, the teaching with musical, dancing and other instruction of
more than one pupil at a time.
      4.   Declaration Of Conditions: The Planning Commission may impose such
conditions on the granting of an interim use permit as may be necessary to
carry out the purpose and provisions of this section.
      5.   Transferability: Permits shall not run with the land and shall not
be transferable.
      6.   Inspections: The City of Farmington hereby reserves the right upon
issuing any interim use permit for a home occupation to inspect the premises in
which the occupation is being conducted to insure compliance with the
provisions of this section or any conditions additionally imposed.
   (C)   General Provisions And Performance Standards:
      1.   No home occupation shall produce light glare, noise, odor or
vibration that will in any way have an objectionable effect upon adjacent or
nearby property.
      2.   No equipment shall be used in the home occupation, which will create
electrical interference to surrounding properties.
      3.   Any home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
residential use of the premises, should not change the residential character
thereof, and shall result in no incompatibility or disturbance to the
surrounding residential uses.
      4.   No home occupation shall require internal or external alterations or
involve construction features not customarily found in residential dwellings
except where required to comply with the local and State fire and police
recommendations.
      5.   There shall be no exterior storage of equipment or materials used in
the home occupation, except personal automobiles used in the home occupation
may be parked on site.
      6.   All vehicle parking required for conduct of the home occupation
shall be off-street. Parking/storage of all commercial or non-passenger
vehicles used in the home occupation shall be in accordance with subsection
10-6-4(N) of this chapter.
      7.   The home occupation shall meet all applicable Fire and Building
Codes.
      8.   No home occupation activity of a non-residential character shall be
discernable from the private street with the exception of a two (2) sided, two
(2) square foot, non illuminated sign may be displayed. Said sign shall be set
back a minimum of ten feet (10') from all property lines.
      9.   Shipments and delivery of products, merchandise or supplies shall be
limited to the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) P.M.
and shall regularly occur only in single rear axle straight trucks or smaller
vehicles used to serve residential areas.
      10.   All home occupations shall comply with the provisions of the City
nuisance ordinance.
      11.   No home occupation shall be conducted between the hours of six
o'clock (6:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. unless said occupation is
contained entirely within the principal building and/or accessory structure
space and will not include any on- street parking facilities.
      12.   No retail sales and delivery of products or merchandise to the
public shall occur on the premises except when incidental to the services
provided.
      13.   Home occupations shall not utilize more than forty five percent
(45%) of the gross floor area of any dwelling unit, inclusive of any detached
accessory structure used for the home occupation.
      14.   Product sales associated with private social events (i.e.,
"Tupperware" parties) shall be exempt from this section provided they occur no
more than four (4) times per year at any given residence.
      15.   Home occupations must be owned and operated by the owner/lessee of
the residential property.
   (D)   Requirements For Permitted Home Occupations:
      1.   Only persons who reside full time in the residence shall be employed
by the home occupation.
      2.   Customers and/or clients from the general retail public shall not
come to the premises in question for purposes pertaining to the conduct of the
home occupation.
      3.   All permitted home occupations shall be conducted entirely within
the principal or accessory structures.
   (E)   Requirements For Special Home Occupations:
      1.   One employee, who does not reside on the premises may be employed.
Additional non-resident employees above the one may be considered and approved
on a case by case basis by the Planning Commission if it is found by the
Planning Commission that circumstances exist that won't compromise the
residential integrity of the surrounding neighborhood. In no case may there be
more than four (4) additional non-resident employees and all parking for these
employees must be accommodated on the subject property.
      2.   A special home occupation permit may be issued for a period of one
year, after which the permit may be reissued for periods of up to three (3)
years each. Each application for permit renewal shall, however, be processed in
accordance with the provisions regarding interim use permits, except that no
public hearing is required on the permit renewal, unless deemed necessary by
the Planning Commission. However, notice of the permit renewal application must
be provided to all property owners of land within three hundred fifty feet
(350') of the boundary of the property in question. The notice must provide the
date of consideration before the Planning Commission and indicate that parties
may be heard to consider the application. Failure of a property owner to
receive said notice shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set forth
within the zoning ordinance.
   (F)   Prohibited Home Occupations:
      1.   Service, repair or painting of any motorized vehicle, including but
not limited to motor vehicles, trailers, boats, personal watercraft,
recreational vehicles and snowmobiles.
      2.   Dispatch centers where persons come to a site and are dispatched to
other locations.
      3.   Medical or dental clinic.
      4.   Rental businesses.
      5.   Contracting, excavating, welding or machine shops.
      6.   Commercial kennels and veterinary clinics.
      7.   Tow truck services.
      8.   Sale or use of hazardous materials in excess of consumer quantities
which are packaged for consumption by individual households for personal care
or household use.
      9.   Any other use of residential property deemed to be detrimental or
inconsistent with the residential character of the neighborhood. (Ord. 017-731,
8-21-2017)
10-6-3: SIGNS AND BILLBOARDS:
   (A)   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   Purpose: Signs have an impact on the character and quality of the
environment as a prominent part of the scenery. They attract or repel the
viewing public and affect the safety of vehicular traffic. Their suitability or
appropriateness helps to set the tone of the neighborhood. The purpose of this
section is to protect and promote the general welfare, health, safety and
aesthetics within the City through the establishment of comprehensive
standards, regulations and procedures governing the placement, erection,
maintenance, use and/or display of devices, signs or symbols.
      2.   Intent: The provisions of this section are intended to encourage
creativity, a reasonable degree of freedom of choice, an opportunity for
effective communication and a sense of concern for visual amenities on the part
of those designing, displaying or otherwise utilizing needed communicative
media of the types regulated by this section. At the same time, the provisions
of this section are intended to ensure that the public is not endangered,
annoyed or distracted by unsafe, disorderly, indiscriminate or unnecessary use
of such communicative facilities.
   (B)   Signs Permitted: Upon the adoption of this section, it shall be
unlawful and a violation of this section for any person to erect, construct,
paint, alter, relocate, reconstruct, display, or maintain or cause to be
erected, constructed, displayed or maintained within the City of Farmington any
sign without first having obtained a permit from the Zoning Officer.
      1.   Signs Permitted In All Zoning Districts:
            (a)    On Premises Directional Signs: Where one-way access and
egress drives are incorporated in a site plan, a sign indicating traffic
direction no more than two (2) square feet may be placed at a driveway within
five feet (5') of the street right-of-way. A directional sign indicating the
entrance to a two-way driveway may be required where the Zoning Officer deems
it is necessary to safely direct the traveling public.
            (b)    Off Premises Directional Signs: For the purpose of providing
off premises direction to a residential project described in this subsection,
or to a new venture less than twelve (12) months following the issuance of an
occupancy permit, or to a public, religious or nonprofit institution, or to a
use which, in the determination of the Planning Commission, incurs substantial
hardship from lack of reasonable identification as a result of its location, an
interim use permit shall be required. Such sign shall not exceed twenty five
(25) square feet per face and such sign shall conform to the yard requirements
of the zoning district in which it is located. If said sign is lighted, it
shall be illuminated only during those hours when business is in operation or
when the model homes or other developments are open for conducting business.
            (c)    Real Estate Signs: Temporary signage for the purpose of
selling, renting or leasing individual lots, parcels, homes or buildings may be
erected provided:
               (1)    One sign may be placed per street frontage and located
within fifteen feet (15') of the right-of-way line on the property to be sold
or leased.
               (2)    The size of such sign shall be a maximum of six (6)
square feet for residentially zoned property and a maximum of thirty two (32)
square feet for all other properties.
               (3)    The sign shall be removed upon sale, rental, or lease of
the property.
            (d)    Development Project Sign: Temporary signage for the purpose
of selling or promoting a development project or used as construction signs
shall comply with the following conditions:
               (1)    For development projects of thirty (30) acres or less,
one sign each at a maximum of thirty two (32) square feet of sign area and not
exceeding ten feet (10') in height may be erected on the project site.
               (2)    For development projects over thirty (30) acres, two (2)
signs each at a maximum of thirty two (32) square feet of sign area and not
exceeding ten feet (10') in height may be erected.
               (3)    Signs shall be permitted only after a sign permit has
been approved.
               (4)    Signs shall be located at least ten feet (10') from the
nearest property line on the property to be sold or leased and in no case shall
be permitted within the thirty foot (30') triangle of visibility at public or
private street intersections or driveway intersections.
               (5)    Signs shall be located at least fifty feet (50') from any
existing or occupied dwelling unit.
               (6)    Signs shall be removed when the residential development
is sold out or the multiple dwelling project is sold or rented.
            (e)    Banners: Banners shall comply with the following conditions:
               (1)    Sign Permit Required: A sign permit is required for the
banner and shall be valid for thirty (30) consecutive days. No more than three
(3) banners may be allowed on a property.
               (2)    Minimum Setbacks: Banners shall be set back at least ten
feet (10') from all property lines and in no case shall be permitted within the
thirty foot (30') triangle of visibility at public or private street
intersections or driveway intersections.
               (3)    Banners; Public Safety: Banners shall not be erected or
maintained in such a manner as may endanger the public safety, interfere with
or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular travel, or create a traffic safety problem.
               (4)    Banners On Streetlights: The city may place banners on
streetlights to display distinctive colors, patterns, or symbols, used as a
symbol of the city.
            (f)    Election Signs: Election signs shall be permitted on private
property in any zoning district with the expressed consent of the owner or
occupant of such property. The following conditions apply:
               (1)   Such signs may not be posted more than sixty (60) days
prior to the election and must be removed by those responsible for the erection
of the sign or the property owner within seven (7) days following the election.
For state general election years, the allowable time to post signs before the
election and for the removal of such signs after the election shall comply with
Minnesota Statutes Section 211B.045.
               (2)    Such signs must be no larger than thirty two (32) square
feet of sign area and shall not exceed six feet (6') in height above grade.
               (3)    Such signs shall not be more than three feet (3') in
height within the thirty foot (30') triangle of visibility at public or private
street intersections or driveway intersections.
               (4)    Any sign found by the city to be in violation of this
section may be, without notice, summarily dismantled, removed or otherwise
rendered in compliance with this section by the city.
               (5)    Signs shall not be placed upon public right of way or
property, except for parks and other public areas approved by the city council.
               (6)    Installation shall comply with the fair campaign
practices act.
            (g)    Window: Permanent signs printed or otherwise displayed from
the surface of an individual window shall not exceed two (2) square feet or
forty percent (40%) of the total window area, whichever is greater.
            (h)    Public Information Signs: Public information signs shall be
allowed by conditional use permit in all districts. Sign area shall be limited
to one hundred fifty (150) square feet, and shall comply with setback
requirements in each district, and may be illuminated subject to timing and
information controls stipulated as a condition to the conditional use permit.
            (i)    On Premises Signs: For the purpose of identifying or
advertising a business, person, activity, goods, products or services located
on the premises where the sign is installed and maintained, signs shall be
regulated as set forth in this subsection (B)1.
            (j)    No Trespassing: No trespassing signs and no dumping signs
shall not exceed two (2) square feet in area per side and not to exceed four
(4) in number per lot in R districts. In the A district such signs shall not be
located less than three hundred feet (300') apart.
            (k)    Awning Signs: Signs consisting of one line of letters not
exceeding nine inches (9") in height may be painted or placed upon the hanging
border only of an awning. An identification emblem, insignia, initial or other
similar design, not exceeding eight (8) square feet in area may be painted or
placed elsewhere on an awning.
            (l)    Painted Wall Signs: Painted wall signs shall be permitted
only on structurally sound and homogeneous surfaces. A conditional use permit
shall be required.
            (m)    Municipal Entrance Sign: A sign may be placed at the city
boundary along a roadway identifying the city name. Such sign shall not exceed
one hundred fifty (150) square feet and ten feet (10') in height.
            (n)    Open House Signs: Open house signs shall not exceed four (4)
square feet, six feet (6') in height and the display of signs is limited to the
same day of the open house. Said signs may be placed in the city right of way
but not exceed three feet (3') in height within the thirty foot (30') triangle
of visibility at public or private street intersections or driveway
intersections.
            (o)    Temporary Holiday Signs: Temporary holiday signs and
displays relating to noncommercial messages associated with national, state or
local holidays or festivals.
            (p)    Garage Sale Signs: Garage/rummage sale signs on private
property not to exceed four (4) square feet in size and to be removed on the
same day the sale ends.
            (q)    Integral Signs: Integral signs displaying only the name,
address of the building or date of construction not to exceed two (2) square
feet.
            (r)    Flags: Flags or insignia of any government.
            (s)    Traffic/Street Signs: Traffic/street signs approved by the
director of public works.
            (t)    A-Frame Signs:
               (1)    Sign Size And Placement: An established local business
(including a church) shall be allowed to display on the sidewalk adjacent to
its business or on other private property with the owner's permission within
the B, SSC, mixed use, and business/commercial flex zoning districts, a
portable two (2) sided sign, up to two feet (2') wide and three feet (3') high,
during its regular business hours. Churches shall be allowed to display such
signs on the day before and day during which services are conducted. Such signs
shall not restrict pedestrian traffic flow.
               (2)    Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any business to
display a portable sign without first having obtained a permit from the city.
Application for a permit shall be made in writing to the zoning officer, and
applicants shall state the location of the proposed portable sign and such
other facts as may be required and applicable to the granting of such permit.
The permit shall be valid for a period of up to one year and is not
transferable to another business without authorization of the zoning officer.
The city may approve the permit with additional terms and conditions,
including, but not limited to, conditions regarding location, duration, and
design.
               (3)    Fees And Insurance: The fees required for this permit
shall be paid at the office of the city clerk before the granting of the
permit. The amount of the fee shall be as provided from time to time by
resolution of the council. The city clerk or authorized city staff shall issue
a receipt for the fee and issue the permit to the applicant. No fee shall be
prorated for a portion of a year, and no fee paid shall be refunded unless the
permit is denied. The applicant is required to take out and maintain public
liability and property damage insurance covering personal injury, including
death, and claims for property damage which may arise directly or indirectly
out of the use and/or placement of the portable sign. Limits for bodily injury
and death shall not be less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)
for one person and one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) for each occurrence;
limits for property damage shall not be less than two hundred thousand dollars
($200,000.00) for each occurrence; or a combination single policy of one
million dollars ($1,000,000.00) or more. The city shall be named as an
additional insured on the policy, and the applicant shall file with the city a
certificate evidencing coverage prior to the city issuing a permit.
               (4)    Revocation Of Permit: Any permit issued by the city may
be suspended or revoked by the zoning officer for any of the following causes:
                  A. Conducting such permitted activity in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or menace to the health, safety or welfare of
the public, or a disturbance of the peace or comfort of residents of the city,
or upon the recommendation of the appropriate city official.
                  B. Expiration or cancellation of the required insurance
coverage.
                  C. Actions unauthorized or beyond the scope of the permit
granted.
                  D. Violation of any regulation or provision of this code
applicable to the activity for which the permit has been granted, or any
regulation or law of the state so applicable.
                  E. Failure to continuously comply with all conditions
required as precedent to the approval of the permit.
               (5)    Hearing: Any person aggrieved by the action of any city
official in denying, suspending or revoking a permit shall have the right to a
hearing before the planning commission on any such action, provided a written
request therefor is filed with the clerk within ten (10) days after receipt of
the notice of such denial, suspension or revocation. The planning commission
may grant such permit or confirm any suspension or revocation or reinstate any
such permit. The action taken by the planning commission after a hearing shall
be final.
            (u)    Special Event Sign: Special event banners shall comply with
subsection (B)1(e) of this section. Other special event signs require a permit
of the type referred to in subsection (B)1(e)(1) of this section, shall not
exceed four (4) square feet in area, shall be permitted in all zoning districts
within thirty (30) days prior to the event, and shall not be located within the
thirty foot (30') triangle of visibility at public or private street
intersections or driveway intersections.
            (v)    LED Message Sign: One LED message sign in the form of a
pylon, monument or wall sign may be installed on any property which is
continually utilized for a civic, educational, nonprofit, charitable,
religious, commercial, or industrial purpose, and shall be subject to the sign
area and height requirements for the underlying zoning districts as specified
within subsections (B)2 through (B)6 of this section. The installation of an
LED message sign shall be subject to the state's electrical code. The
electrical service to such sign shall be underground. LED signs permitted under
this section shall comply with subsection (C)1 of this section.
      2.   Residential Zoning Districts:
            (a)    Home Occupations: For home occupations, one nonilluminated
wall or freestanding sign not exceeding two (2) square feet in size.
            (b)    Single-Family Subdivisions And Multi-Family Complexes: For
single-family subdivisions and multi-family complexes, one monument sign per
street frontage, not to exceed fifty (50) square feet in sign area and five
feet (5') in height. Signs shall be located at least ten feet (10') from
property lines and in no case shall be permitted within the thirty foot (30')
triangle of visibility at street intersections.
            (c)    Permitted Nonresidential Uses: For permitted nonresidential
uses, one freestanding monument sign is allowed per street frontage if an
access drive is present. Each sign shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet in
sign area and ten feet (10') in height. Signs shall be located at least ten
feet (10') from property lines and in no case shall be permitted within the
thirty foot (30') triangle of visibility at street intersections. Wall signs
shall not exceed twelve percent (12%) of the building facade or three hundred
(300) square feet, whichever is less.
            (d)    Illuminated Signs: Except for temporary signs, illuminated
signs shall be allowed in residential zoning districts for nonresidential uses.
Such signs shall be illuminated only by steady, stationary, shielded light
sources directed solely at the sign, or internal to it, without causing glare
for motorists, pedestrians or neighboring premises as outlined in section
 10-6-8 of this chapter regarding exterior lighting.
            (e)    Athletic Complex Scoreboards: Freestanding signs shall be
permitted on public school property as follows: Scoreboards may be located only
at the varsity and junior varsity playing fields at the northeast intersection
of Akin Road and CSAH 50 and on the parcel at 800 Denmark Avenue. One
scoreboard may be erected for each competitive playing field and is restricted
to a maximum of six feet six inches (6'6") in height by twenty seven feet (27')
in length. The maximum height of the scoreboard at installation is twenty feet
(20'). The scoreboards at the varsity and junior varsity baseball fields may
display nonilluminated advertisement panels located on the bottom perimeter of
the front of the scoreboard and shall not exceed two feet (2') in height or
twenty seven feet (27') in width. A second nonilluminated advertisement panel
may be located on the back of the scoreboard at the top of the scoreboard
perimeter and shall not exceed three feet (3') in height or twenty seven feet
(27') in width. One business may be advertised on both sides of the scoreboard
and shall display the exact same sign. Team logos, names and field location may
be located on the front of the scoreboard at the top of the scoreboard
perimeter and shall not exceed two feet (2') in height and twenty seven feet
(27') in width. Team logos, names and field location may also be located on the
back of the scoreboard and shall not exceed two feet (2') in height and twenty
seven feet (27') in width. The scoreboards located at 800 Denmark Avenue may
display nonilluminated advertisement panels on the bottom perimeter of the
scoreboard and may not exceed two feet (2') in height or twenty seven feet
(27') in length. Team logos, names and field location may be shown on a panel
located on the top perimeter of the scoreboard and may not exceed two feet (2')
in height or twenty seven feet (27') in length. A second nonilluminated
advertisement panel may be located on the back of the scoreboard at the top of
the scoreboard perimeter and shall not exceed three feet (3') in height or
twenty seven feet (27') in width. One business may be advertised on the back of
the scoreboard.
      3.   B-1, B-2, B-3, B-4, And I-1 Zoning Districts:
            (a)    Wall Signs: One wall sign is permitted per building front as
follows for each zoning district:
 
B-1  10 percent of facade (200 square foot maximum)
B-2  14 percent of facade (300 square foot maximum)
B-3  16 percent of facade (300 square foot maximum)
B-4  16 percent of facade (300 square foot maximum)
I-1  18 percent of facade (400 square foot maximum)
 
            (b)    Monument Identification Signs: Monument identification signs
are permitted up to one hundred (100) square feet in sign area with a height
maximum of ten feet (10') from the ground (including the base) to the top of
the sign. The sign must be set back ten feet (10') or more from the property
line and shall not be located within the thirty foot (30') triangle of
visibility at street intersections. One monument identification sign per street
frontage may be erected on a lot if the lot is adjacent to more than one
street. Primary sign shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in sign
area per sign with a maximum height of ten feet (10'); secondary street
frontage sign shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet in sign area per sign
with a maximum height of six feet (6'). Monument identification signs in the B-
4 district may be illuminated between eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and ten o'clock
(10:00) P.M. and shall be in compliance with section
10-6-8 of this chapter.
            (c)    Sign Plan: A multiple occupancy building shall submit a sign
plan that will coordinate signage for the entire project. The plan shall
address height, location, size, number type, decorative theme, design, color
and materials to be used on the building. The plan shall be reviewed and
approved by the zoning officer prior to the issuance of a sign permit for the
building. The owner of the building is responsible for obtaining the sign
permit, complying with the approved sign criteria, and ensuring that signs
erected are in compliance with the approved sign plan.
            (d)    Pylon Signs: Pylon signs are permitted as follows:
               (1)    No pylon sign shall be located in a required yard.
               (2)    Pylon signs shall not be located closer than five feet
(5') from a driveway or parking space.
               (3)    Area and height of pylon signs are determined by the
speed of automobile traffic along the frontage street as follows:
Speed  Area           Height
(mph)  (Square Feet)  (Feet)
Speed   Area            Height
(mph)   (Square Feet)   (Feet)
                     
30        50        18
35        75        20
40        100       22
45        125       24
50        150       26
55        175       28
 
               (4)    Pylon signs shall not be permitted in the B-4 zoning
district.
            (e)    Window Signs: No more than twenty five percent (25%) of the
total window or two (2) square feet, whichever is greater.
            (f)    Marquee Signs: Marquee signs may be placed on the roof of a
covered walk or marquee in a building complex on the vertical face of a marquee
and may project from the lower edge of the marquee not more than twenty four
inches (24"), but the bottom of a sign placed on a marquee shall be no less
than eight feet (8') above the ground at any point. No part of the sign shall
extend above the top of the roofline for a covered walk or above the top of the
vertical face of the marquee.
            (g)    Illuminated Signs: Except for temporary signs, illuminated
signs shall be allowed in B and I districts. Such signs shall be illuminated
only by steady, stationary, shielded light sources directed solely at the sign,
or internal to it, without causing glare for motorists, pedestrians or
neighboring premises as outlined in section
10-6-8 of this chapter dealing with exterior lighting.
            (h)    Billboards:
               (1)    Billboards shall be permitted only in the I-1 district.
               (2)    A conditional use permit is required for all billboards.
               (3)    The maximum sign size shall be three hundred (300) square
feet in sign area. Billboards may incorporate cutouts protruding beyond the
framed perimeter of the sign face, providing the total sign area does not
exceed three hundred fifty (350) square feet.
               (4)    The maximum height to the uppermost portion of any
advertising device shall be thirty feet (30'). The building setback limitation
for the zoning district in which the sign is located shall apply to setbacks
for billboards.
               (5)    The minimum radius distance between billboards shall be
one thousand five hundred feet (1,500').
               (6)    No billboard structure shall be constructed within five
hundred feet (500') of any park or residential zoning district.
               (7)    No billboard shall be located closer to any intersection
than five hundred feet (500').
               (8)    Billboards shall be a single support, metal structure,
free of supports or guywires. The metal shall be treated in such a manner as to
prevent deterioration.
               (9)    Billboards may be illuminated provided that there are no
flashing, intermittent or moving lights, and that beams or rays of light are
not directed toward any portion of public streets.
               (10)    Billboards are permitted in undeveloped land areas. When
a plat is approved and improvements are in place, the billboard must be removed
from the site.
      4.   IP Zoning District:
            (a)    Single Occupant Building:
               (1)    Monument Identification Sign: One monument identification
sign for each principal structure or legal parcel. Lots adjacent to more than
one street may have one sign per street frontage. Signs shall not exceed sixty
(60) square feet in sign area per sign with a maximum height of six feet (6').
Said signs shall be located at least ten feet (10') from the nearest property
line and in no case shall be permitted within the thirty foot (30') triangle of
visibility at public or private street intersections or driveway intersections.
               (2)    Wall: The total sign area on the building shall not
exceed twenty percent (20%) of the building facade or five hundred (500) square
feet in area.
            (b)    Multiple Occupant Building:
               (1)    Monument Identification Sign: One monument identification
sign may be erected on a lot. The sign shall not exceed seventy five (75)
square feet in sign area and ten feet (10') in height. Monument identification
signs may include the name of the development and up to four (4) tenants of the
development. Said signs shall be located at least ten feet (10') from the
nearest property line and in no case shall be permitted within the thirty foot
(30') triangle of visibility at public or private street intersections or
driveway intersections.
               (2)    Wall: The total sign area on the building shall not
exceed twenty percent (20%) of the building facade or five hundred (500) square
feet in area.
               (3)    Sign Plan: Multiple occupancy buildings shall submit a
sign plan that will coordinate signage for the entire project. The plan shall
address height, location, size, number type, decorative theme, design, color
and materials to be used on the building. The plan shall be reviewed and
approved by the zoning officer prior to the issuance of a sign permit for the
building. The owner of the building is responsible for obtaining the sign
permit, complying with the approved sign criteria, and ensuring that signs
erected are in compliance with the approved sign plan.
      5.   Spruce Street Commercial, Mixed Use, And Business/Flex Zoning
Districts:
            (a)    Single Occupant Building:
               (1)    Monument Identification Sign:
                  A. Under one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet: One
monument identification sign for each principal structure or legal parcel. Lots
adjacent to more than one street may have one sign per street frontage. Signs
shall not exceed one hundred (100) square feet in sign area per sign with a
maximum height of ten feet (10'). Said signs shall be located at least ten feet
(10') from the nearest property line and in no case shall be permitted within
the thirty foot (30') triangle of visibility at public or private street
intersections or driveway intersections.
                  B. Over one hundred thousand (100,000) square feet: One
monument identification sign per street frontage for each principal structure
or legal parcel. Lots adjacent to more than one street may have one sign per
street frontage. Primary sign shall not exceed one hundred fifty (150) square
feet in sign area per sign with a maximum height of fifteen feet (15');
secondary street frontage sign shall not exceed sixty (60) square feet in area
per sign with a maximum height of six feet (6'). Said signs shall be located at
least ten feet (10') from the nearest property line and in no case shall be
permitted within the thirty foot (30') triangle of visibility at public or
private street intersections or driveway intersections.
               (2)    Wall: The total sign area on the building may not exceed
sixteen percent (16%) of the building facade or four hundred (400) square feet
per building face.
            (b)    Multiple Occupant Building:
               (1)    Monument Identification Sign: One monument identification
sign per street frontage may be erected on a lot. Lots adjacent to more than
one street may have one sign per street frontage. Primary sign shall not exceed
two hundred (200) square feet in sign area per sign with a maximum height of
twenty feet (20'); secondary street frontage sign shall not exceed seventy five
(75) square feet in sign area per sign with a maximum height of six feet (6').
Monument identification signs may include the name of the development and up to
four (4) tenants of the development. Said signs shall be located at least ten
feet (10') from the nearest property line and in no case shall be permitted
within the thirty foot (30') triangle of visibility at public or private street
intersections or driveway intersections.
               (2)    Wall: The total sign area on the building may not exceed
sixteen percent (16%) of the building facade or four hundred (400) square feet.
               (3)    Sign Plan: Multiple occupancy buildings shall submit a
sign plan that will coordinate signage for the entire project. The plan shall
address height, location, size, number, type, decorative theme, design, color
and materials to be used on the building. The plan shall be reviewed and
approved by the zoning officer prior to the issuance of a sign permit for the
building. The owner of the building is responsible to obtain the sign permit,
comply with the approved sign criteria and ensure that signs erected are in
compliance with the approved sign plan.
            (c)    On Premises/Traffic Directional Signs: Where one-way access
and egress drives are incorporated in a site plan, a sign indicating traffic
direction no more than two (2) square feet in sign area may be placed at a
driveway within five feet (5') of the street right of way. A directional sign
indicating the entrance to a two-way driveway may be required where the zoning
officer deems it is necessary to safely direct the traveling public. Business
directional signs are allowed within a development at no more than two (2)
square feet in sign area per sign to direct traffic to business locations.
            (d)    Marquee Signs: Marquee signs are allowed on theater
buildings in the SSC district and may be placed on the vertical face of the
building and may project from the lower edge of the marquee not more than
twenty four inches (24"), but the bottom of a sign placed on a marquee shall be
no less than eight feet (8') above the ground at any point. No part of the sign
shall extend above the top of the roofline for a covered walk or above the top
of the vertical face of the marquee.
            (e)    Projecting Signs:
               (1)    Type Of Signage: No advertising signage is allowed; only
business identification signs are permitted.
               (2)    Projecting: The sign shall be perpendicular to the
surface of the building and the sign may be no more than one foot (1') thick.
               (3)    Size: Projecting signs may project no more than four feet
(4') from the front edge of the building and be no more than twelve (12) square
feet in area.
               (4)    Height: The bottom of the projecting sign must be at
least eight feet (8') above sidewalk grade.
               (5)    Materials: Projecting signs must be approved by the
planning commission during the sign permit application process.
               (6)    Illumination: Projecting signs may be lit with external
lighting only and shall comply with section
10-6-8 of this chapter.
               (7)    Public Right Of Way: Projecting signs may not extend over
a public right of way or public property (except a sidewalk or trail portion
thereof) except by conditional use permit.
               (8)    Parking Space Or Loading Dock: Projecting signs may not
extend over a designated parking space or loading area.
               (9)    Box Signs: Projecting box signs or cabinet signs are
prohibited.
      6.   A-1 Zoning District:
            (a)    Permitted Nonresidential Uses: For permitted nonresidential
uses, one freestanding monument sign is allowed per street frontage if an
access drive is present. Each sign shall not exceed one hundred (100) square
feet in sign area and ten feet (10') in height. Signs shall be located at least
ten feet (10') from property lines and in no case shall be permitted within the
thirty foot (30') triangle of visibility at street intersections. Wall signs
shall not exceed twelve percent (12%) of the building facade or three hundred
(300) square feet, whichever is less.
   (C)   Signs Prohibited: All signs not expressly permitted under this section
or exempt from regulation hereunder in accordance with this section are
prohibited. Such signs include, but are not limited to:
      1.   Rotating, Moving, Animated, Or Flashing Signs: Rotating, moving or
flashing signs shall not be permitted in any district.
      2.   Traffic Interference: No sign shall be erected that, by reason of
position, shape or color would interfere in any way with the proper functioning
or purpose of a traffic sign or signal.
      3.   Snipe Signs: There shall be no use of snipe signs anywhere within
the city.
      4.   Roof Signs: Roof signs, roof advertising symbols, roof logos, roof
statues or roof sculptures shall not be permitted in any district. No sign
shall extend above the roofline.
      5.   Miscellaneous Signs: Such signs shall not be painted, attached or in
any manner affixed to trees, rocks or similar natural surfaces, nor shall such
signs be affixed to a fence or utility pole.
      6.   Public Rights Of Way: No sign shall be upon or overhang any public
right of way, with the exception of B-2 districts where an overhang of fifteen
inches (15") is possible.
      7.   Obsolete Signs: Signs which advertise an activity, business, product
or service that has not been produced or conducted on the premises for more
than thirty (30) days and are considered obsolete.
   (D)   General Design And Construction Standards: All signs shall be
designed, constructed, and maintained in accordance with the following
standards:
      1.   Except for banners, flags, temporary signs, and window signs
conforming in all respects with the requirements of this section, all signs
shall be constructed of permanent materials and shall be permanently attached
to the ground, a building, or another structure by direct attachment to a rigid
wall, frame, or structure.
      2.   All signs shall be maintained in good structural condition, in
compliance with all building and electrical codes, and in conformance with this
code, at all times.
   (E)   Nonconforming Signs:
      1.   Continuation Of Use: A nonconforming sign lawfully existing upon the
effective date of this section may be continued at the size and in the manner
existing upon such date except as hereinafter specified.
      2.   Nonconforming Sign: Upon adoption of this section, a nonconforming
sign shall not be:
            (a)    Structurally changed to another nonconforming sign if
altered to prolong the life of the sign, except to meet safety requirements.
            (b)    Structurally altered except to bring it into compliance with
the provisions of this section.
            (c)    Expanded or enlarged so as to increase the degree of
nonconformity of the sign.
            (d)    Continued in use if a change of use occurs as defined in the
zoning ordinance, or if such sign is proposed to be remodeled, repainted or
otherwise changed for the purpose of displaying the new name or other new
identification of the premises.
            (e)    Repaired or otherwise rehabilitated after damage,
destruction or deterioration of more than fifty percent (50%), except to bring
into conformance with this section.
      3.   Nonconforming Sign Maintenance And Repair: Nothing in this section
shall be construed as relieving the owner of use of a legal nonconforming sign
or owner of the property on which the legal nonconforming sign is located from
the provisions of this section regarding safety, maintenance and repair of
signs, provided, however, that any repainting, cleaning and other normal
maintenance or repair of the sign or sign structure shall not modify the sign
structure or copy in any way which makes it more nonconforming or the sign
shall lose its legal nonconforming status.
      4.   Nonconforming Signs Annexed To The City: All existing signs located
on property annexed into the city after the effective date of this section that
are not in conformance with this section shall be brought into conformance
within sixty (60) days after such annexation.
   (F)   Administration And Enforcement:
      1.   Enforcement Officer: All administration and enforcement of this
section shall be primarily implemented by the zoning officer. Anyone who wishes
to report a sign that may be in violation of this section should do so to the
zoning officer.
      2.   Permit Procedure: Except as otherwise provided in this section, all
signs shall require a sign permit prior to being constructed, reconstructed,
moved, altered, placed, or repaired. Sign permits shall be issued by the zoning
officer.
      3.   Permit Fees: Each application for a sign permit shall be accompanied
by the applicable fees, which shall be established by the Farmington city
council.
      4.   Cancellation: A sign permit shall be null and void if the work for
which the permit was issued has not been completed within a period of six (6)
months after the date of the permit. A permit may be renewed one time and no
additional fee shall be collected for renewal.
      5.   Fines: Any person, organization, corporation or their
representatives, found in violation of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed the
maximum statutory amount. Each day that a violation exists shall constitute a
separate and distinct offense, punishable as aforesaid.
      6.   Appeals: To provide for a reasonable interpretation of the
provisions of this section, a permit applicant who wishes to appeal an
interpretation by the zoning officer may file a notice of appeal with the
planning commission and request a hearing. The commission shall hear appeals or
requests in the following cases:
            (a)    Appeals where it is alleged that there is an error in any
order, requirement, decision or determination made by the zoning officer in the
enforcement of this section.
            (b)    Request for variances from the literal provisions of this
section in instances where their strict enforcement would cause undue hardship.
      7.   Severance Clause: If any subsection, clause or provision or portion
thereof, of this section shall be found to be invalid or unconstitutional by
any court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect any other
subsection, clause, provision or portion thereof of this section.
      8.   Revocation Of Permit: The zoning officer is authorized and empowered
to revoke any permit upon failure of the holder of said permit thereof to
comply with any provisions of this section.
      9.   Maintenance: All signs shall be maintained in a safe, presentable
and good structural condition at all times. Maintenance shall include painting,
repainting, cleaning, replacement or repair of defective parts and other
necessary acts.
Any sign which is found in a dangerous or defective condition shall be removed
or repaired by the owner of the sign or the owner of the premises on which the
sign is located.
(Ord. 003-485, 2-18-2003; amd. Ord. 004-508, 3-1-2004; Ord. 005-523, 2-22-2005;
Ord. 005-531, 5-16-2005; Ord. 005-538, 7-5-2005; Ord. 005-539, 7-5-2005; Ord.
005-540, 7-5-2005; Ord. 005-542, 9-6-2005; Ord. 007-575, 8-20-2007; Ord. 008-
539, 7-5-2005; Ord. 010-619, 3-1-2010; Ord. 012-655, 12-17-2012; Ord. 2024-09,
9-3-2024; Ord. 2024-09, 9-3-2024)
10-6-4: OFF STREET PARKING:
   (A)   General Provisions:
      1.   Use of Parking Area: Required off street parking space in all
districts shall not be utilized for open storage of goods or for the storage of
vehicles which are inoperable, for lease, rent or sale.
      2.   Calculating Spaces: When the determination of the number of required
off street parking spaces results in a fraction, each fraction of one-half (1/
2) or more shall constitute another space.
      3.   Floor Area Determination: Floor area is based on ninety percent
(90%) of gross floor area, or actual usable area.
   (B)   Required Parking Spaces:
      1.   Number of Spaces: Off street parking spaces shall be provided in
accordance with the specifications of this section whenever any new use is
established or an existing use is enlarged in all districts except the B-
2 downtown business district.
Uses Parking Requirements
Uses                                   Parking Requirements
Accessory apartment                    1 per dwelling unit
                                       1 space per each examination and
Animal clinics                         treatment room, plus 1 space per
                                       employee on the maximum work shift
Auto repair, major                     2 per bay plus 1 per each employee on
                                       the maximum work shift
Auto repair, minor                     2 per bay plus 1 per each employee on
                                       the maximum work shift
Auto sales                             1 space per 1,000 square feet of gross
                                       floor area for indoor display area
Bed and breakfast                      1 per room plus 1 per employee on the
                                       maximum work shift
Bowling alley                          5 for each alley
                                       1 space/1,500 sf of manufacturing,
Brewery, small brewery, distillery,    fabrication, processing, or warehouse
microdistillery, with or without       area
cocktail room or taproom               Plus 1 space/200 sf of taproom or
                                       cocktail room floor area
Child daycare center, commercial       1 per employee on the maximum work shift
                                       plus 1 per every 10 children
Places of worship, funeral homes and   1 per 4 seats in principal assembly
theaters                               room. Define seat as 22 inches
Clinics                                1 space per 250 square feet of gross
                                       floor area
Clubs                                  1 per 4 customers to maximum seating
                                       capacity
Commercial recreation uses             1 per 2 customers to maximum capacity
Convenience stores, with and without   1 per 200 square feet of retail plus 1
gas                                    per employee on the maximum work shift
Data center                            1 per 2,000 square feet
Dwellings, apartment                   1.5 per dwelling unit
Dwellings, two-unit and twin home      2 per dwelling unit
Dwellings, townhouse                   2 per dwelling unit
Dwellings, single-unit                 2 per dwelling unit
Golf courses                           2 per hole
Greenhouses and nurseries, commercial  1 per 600 square feet of display/sales
                                       area
                                       At least 1 off street parking space for
                                       each 200 square feet of floor area up to
                                       a total floor area of 10,000 square feet
                                       At least 1 off street parking space for
                                       each 250 square feet of floor area in a
Grocery stores                         building that has between 10,001 and
                                       30,000 square feet
                                       At least 1 off street parking space for
                                       each 300 square feet of floor area in a
                                       building that has more than 30,000
                                       square feet
Group daycare facility, 13 to 16       1 per employee on the maximum work shift
persons                                plus 1 per every 5 clients
Group homes, (6 or less persons; 7 to  1 per employee on the maximum work shift
16 persons; commercial) and nursing    plus 1 per every 5 clients
homes
Health clubs                           1 per 200 square feet
Home occupations                       2 spaces in addition to the requirement
                                       for the dwelling
Hospitals                              1 per 5 beds plus 1 for each 3 employees
                                       on the maximum work shift
Hotels/motels                          1 per each guest room plus one per
                                       employee on the maximum work shift
Kennels, commercial                    1 per employee on the maximum work shift
                                       plus 1 per every 1,000 square feet
Manufacturing/industrial facilities    1 per 600 square feet
Non-profit recreational, cultural/     1 per 4 customers to maximum seating
entertainment                          capacity
Offices, personal and professional     1 per 300 square feet
services
Personal health and beauty services    2 per operator station
Public and parochial schools-          1 per classroom plus 1 for every 30
elementary and junior high             children
Public and parochial schools –       1 per classroom plus 1 for every 3
senior high                            children
Public buildings                       1 per employee on the maximum work shift
                                       plus 1 per 200 square feet
Research facilities                    1 per 600 square feet
Restaurant, class II                   1 per every 4 customers to maximum
                                       seating capacity
Restaurants, class I, III, IV, brewpub 1 per every 4 customers to maximum
and coffee shops                       seating capacity plus 1 per employee on
                                       the maximum work shift
                                       At least 1 off street parking space for
                                       each 200 square feet of floor area up to
                                       a total floor area of 10,000 square
                                       feet. At least 1 off street parking
Retail facilities and service          space for each 250 square feet of floor
facilities                             area in a building that has between
                                       10,001 and 30,000 square feet. At least
                                       1 off street parking space for each 300
                                       square feet of floor area in a building
                                       that has more than 30,000 square feet
Senior care facility                   1 per 3 beds plus 1 for each 3 employees
                                       on the maximum work shift
Sexually oriented business             1 per 200 square feet
Supply yards                           1 per employee on the maximum work shift
Warehousing facilities                 1 per 2,000 square feet
Wholesale businesses                   1 per 1,000 square feet
 
      2.   Joint Parking Facilities: Required parking facilities serving two
(2) or more uses may be located on the same lot or in the same structure.
Conditions required for joint use are:
         (a)   The proposed joint parking space is within four hundred feet
(400') of the use it will serve;
         (b)   The applicant(s) shall show that there is no substantial
conflict in the principal operating hours of the two (2) or more buildings or
uses for which joint use of off street parking facilities is proposed; and
         (c)   A properly drawn legal instrument approved by the city attorney,
executed by the parties concerned for joint use of off street parking
facilities shall be filed with the clerk. Said instrument may be a three (3) or
more part agreement including the city.
      3.   Land Banking of Parking Spaces:
         (a)   Additional parking spaces intended for future building expansion
or anticipated needs may be required by the city in the form of land banking.
         (b)   Areas to be land banked shall be designed to integrate with
existing parking areas for space and aisle design, access points, landscaping
provisions and necessary stormwater control.
         (c)   The approved site plan shall designate land banked parking
areas, which shall not be used for achieving required open space standards.
   (C)   Location:
      1.   Location of Off Street Parking Facilities: Required off street
parking shall be on the same lot as the principal building.
      2.   Other Locations: Parking spaces may be located on a lot other than
that containing the principal use with the approval of the board of adjustment.
      3.   Control of Off Street Parking Facilities:
         (a)   When required off street parking facilities are provided
elsewhere than on the lot on which the principal use served is located, written
authority for using such property for off street parking shall be filed with
the city so as to maintain the required number of off street parking spaces
during the existence of said principal use.
         (b)   No such parking facility at its closest point shall be more than
one hundred feet (100') from the property nor more than four hundred feet
(400') from the principal use or building served.
      4.   Parking in Residential Areas:
         (a)   All vehicles shall be parked on a hard surface driveway or
parking apron. All parking areas shall maintain a five foot (5') setback from
side and rear lot lines, except parcels that have no recorded side and rear
drainage and utility easements may have a driveway constructed adjacent to the
side and rear lot lines. This exception is subject to the submittal of a lot
survey and grading plan acceptable to the city engineer. (Ord. 008-587. 9-16-
2008)
   (D)   Design and Maintenance Standards.
      1.   Size of Spaces: Parking spaces shall be a minimum of nine feet by
eighteen feet (9' x 18').
      2.   Grading and Drainage; Surfacing: Prior to issuance of a certificate
of occupancy, all parking areas, driveways and loading areas shall be surfaced
with asphalt or concrete pavement following the city's engineering standard
plates. In the event said surfacing cannot be completed due to weather or
seasonal restrictions, a temporary certificate of occupancy may be issued
contingent upon the extension of the security or letter of credit required
under this chapter. All parking lots located in the front of buildings or
adjacent to street rights of way shall be curbed.
      3.   Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate any off street parking
shall be so arranged as to reflect the light away from adjoining premises in
any R district.
      4.   Access Driveways:
         (a)   All off street parking areas shall have access from driveways
rather than from public streets.
         (b)   Said driveway access shall be limited to thirty feet (30') in
width at the right of way line and thirty feet (30') at the public street paved
surface, except that driveways which serve as access for truck off street
loading areas in industrial districts shall be thirty two feet (32') at the
street right of way line along collector streets and sixty feet (60') at the
street right of way line along local streets.
      5.   Signs: Signs located in any parking area necessary for orderly
operation of traffic movement shall be in addition to accessory signs permitted
in other sections of this code.
   (E)   Plans Submitted to City Engineers: Plans for parking lots shall be
submitted to the city engineer for approval before construction may begin.
      1.   Such plans shall indicate two foot (2') contours, paved surfaces,
landscaping, drainage structures, lighting and other physical features.
      2.   Prior to approval of the parking lot plan, the applicant shall
submit surety acceptable to the city administrator in the amount of the
established costs of complying with the plan. The aforesaid surety shall be
provided to guarantee completion and compliance with the plan.
   (F)   Recreational Vehicle Parking: Recreational vehicles parked on
residential property shall be registered to the owner or lessee of the property
and display a current license and may be parked or stored on the lot as
follows:
      1.   In the front yard, provided they are kept on a hard surfaced
driveway. Recreational vehicles may not be parked in front of the principal
building on a residential lot. Recreational vehicles may not be parked or
stored on public property. Recreational vehicles parked on street right of way
must comply with section
9-1-9 of this code.
      2.   In the side or rear yard, recreational vehicles shall be parked or
stored on asphalt, concrete, or decorative landscape rock.
         (a)   All hard surfaced parking areas in the side or rear yard shall
maintain a five foot (5') setback from the side or rear lot lines.
         (b)   All decorative landscape rock parking areas may be located in
the side or rear yards abutting the property line. The decorative rock parking
areas shall be installed to a depth of four inches (4") and lined with a
commercial grade weed preventative mesh under the rock to impede the growth of
weeds. No class V(5) rock or gravel is allowed. Edging shall be installed to
prevent the rock from spreading from the designated parking area. The
designated parking area may not impede the drainage within the side or rear
yard utility easements or inhibit access to the easements.
         (c)   The above section shall also apply to utility trailer parking.
   (G)   Commercial Vehicle Parking on Residential Property: No commercial
vehicles or contracting or excavating equipment may be parked, stored or
otherwise located on any residential lot within the city except as provided
herein:
      1.   Class I Commercial Vehicles:
         (a)   Class I commercial vehicles may be parked or stored on a
residential lot with a minimum lot size of two and one-half (2-1/2) acres. The
commercial vehicle must be entirely screened from neighboring residential
property with a one hundred percent (100%) opaque screen consisting of wooden
fencing, landscaping, berms or a combination of the foregoing. A commercial
vehicle shall not be parked or stored within one hundred fifty feet (150') of
any neighboring residential dwelling unit.
         (b)   Class I commercial vehicles may be parked on a residential lot
when loading, unloading, rendering a temporary service benefiting the premises
or providing emergency services.
      2.   Class II Commercial Vehicles: Class II commercial vehicles may be
parked on a residential lot if used as the resident's primary form of
transportation to their job or if associated with a permitted home business.
      3.   Class I or Class II School Buses: A class I or class II school bus
may be parked on a residential lot (Monday through Friday) between the hours of
eight thirty o'clock (8:30) A.M. and five o'clock (5:00) P.M.
   (H)   Parking of Bicycles: In the SSMU (Spruce Street Mixed Use) district,
bike parking spaces shall be installed at ten percent (10%) of the total number
of automobile spaces within the development. For convenience and security,
bicycle parking facilities shall be located near building entrances, shall be
placed parallel to the sidewalks, shall be easily visible and shall not be
located in remote automobile parking areas. Such facilities shall not, however,
be located in places that impede pedestrian or automobile traffic flow or that
would cause damage to plant material. Bike racks shall provide a means for the
bicycle frame and one wheel to be attached to a permanent fixture (designed for
securing bicycles) by means of a lock.
(Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 002-476, 5-6-2002; Ord. 004-519, 9-20-2004;
Ord. 004-521, 11-15-2004; Ord. 006-548, 2-6-2006; Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021; Ord.
2024-04, 3-18-2024)
10-6-5: OFF STREET LOADING:
There shall be provided adequate off street loading space in connection with
any structure which requires receipt or distribution of materials by vehicles
on a regular basis.
   (A)   Location:
      1.   All loading areas shall be situated on the same lot as the building
or use to be served.
      2.   Where a loading area faces a public street or residential district,
the required width of maintained landscaped yard, including plant materials,
berms and/or fences, shall be based upon the street classification system as
follows:
 
(a) Arterial streets           20 feet
(b) Collector streets          15 feet
(c) Local collector/industrial 10 feet
(d) Local                      10 feet
 
   (B)   Surfacing And Use:
      1.   Loading berths and access driveways shall be surfaced with concrete
or bituminous material.
      2.   Loading berths and access driveways shall not be used for the
storage of goods or inoperable vehicles. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-6-6: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES:
Accessory structures shall be permitted uses in residential districts and
conditional uses in business and industrial districts subject to the following
conditions:
   (A)   Residential:
      1.   Accessory structures shall be located behind principal structure in
the side or rear yard and at least ten feet (10') away from any structure.
      2.   Storage sheds shall not exceed twelve feet (12') in building height
and two hundred forty (240) square feet.
      3.   Accessory structures shall meet the minimum requirements of the
building code as approved by the building inspector.
      4.   Accessory structures over two hundred (200) square feet require a
building permit.
      5.   Storage sheds are required to be anchored to the ground.
      6.   Accessory structures over two hundred forty (240) square feet
require a foundation or floating slab.
      7.   Accessory structures at one thousand (1,000) square feet and above
require frost footings and foundation.
      8.   Detached garages shall be constructed of similar materials as the
principal structure. (Ord. 015-696, 3-16-2015)
   (B)   Commercial and industrial:
      1.   Accessory structures shall be approved as part of the conditional
use process.
      2.   Accessory structures shall be constructed of similar materials as
the principal structure.
      3.   Accessory structures shall comply with minimum requirements of
subsection (A) of this section. (Ord. 009-607, 8-3-2009)
10-6-7: TEMPORARY STRUCTURES:
Temporary structures and trailers used in conjunction with construction work
shall be permitted only during the period that the construction work is in
progress. The temporary structures are subject to the Minnesota state building
code and permits may be issued by the city zoning officer for a six (6) month
period. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-6-8: EXTERIOR LIGHTING:
   (A)   All interior lighting shall be designed and arranged so as to not
direct any illumination upon or into any contiguous residential districts.
   (B)   No exterior lighting shall be arranged and designed so as to create
direct viewing angles of the illumination source by pedestrian or vehicular
traffic in public right of way.
   (C)   Lenses, deflectors, shields, louvers and prismatic control devices
shall be utilized so as to eliminate nuisance and hazardous lighting.
   (D)   Reflected glare from exterior lighting or from high temperature
processes such as combustion or welding shall not be directed into any
adjoining property.
   (E)   In no case shall reflected glare or spill light exceed five- tenths
(0.5) foot-candle as measured on the property line when abutting residential
zones and 1.0 foot-candle measured on the property line when such line abuts a
similar zone and land. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-6-9: SCREENING:
The screening required in this section shall consist of a fence, landscaping or
earth berm and shall not encroach into public right of way. Natural features
such as differences in elevation and tree masses may negate the need for
manmade screening in certain areas:
   (A)   Screening in Residential Districts: Screening shall be required in
residential districts where:
      1.   Any off street parking lot contains more than six (6) parking
spaces.
      2.   Any material and equipment is stored with the exception of
recreational equipment or construction material currently being used on the
premises.
   (B)   Screening in Business Districts: A one hundred percent (100%) opaque
screen consisting of: 1) a six feet (6') to eight feet (8') opaque maintenance-
free fence and landscaping, 2) landscaping and berms, or 3) a combination of
both shall be required in business and industrial districts where:
      1.   Any structure or parking is adjacent to and within one hundred feet
(100') of property zoned for residential use.
      2.   Any side or rear yard of a business that is across the street from a
residential zone.
      3.   All loading docks; commercial facilities with drive-through
services; automotive repair and service; car washes; and other similar high
activity uses associated with the building, adjacent to residential districts,
shall be screened from adjacent property or street right of way by a six foot
(6') opaque fence or masonry wall.
   (C)   Screening in Industrial Districts:
      1   Any structure, parking, or outdoor storage area, except for display
yards or for those currently being used for construction on the premises,
located within one hundred feet (100') of property zoned for residential use
requires screening. Any side or rear yard of an industrial property that is
across the street from a residential zone also requires screening. Outdoor
storage areas shall not be viewed from CSAH 50 or CSAH 31. nor shall any
articles, goods, materials, incinerators, storage tanks, refuse containers or
like equipment be kept in the open or exposed to CSAH 50 or CSAH 31. Outdoor
storage areas do not require screening within any interior lot that is not
exposed to CSAH 50 or CSAH 31. Required screening shall include either of the
two following options:
         (a)   A six (6) to eight foot (8') tall opaque maintenance free fence
and landscaping. The grade for determining height shall be the grade elevation
of the building or use for which the screening is providing protection. The
design and materials used in constructing a required landscape screen with
fence shall be subject to the approval of the planning division, and shall
include the following:
         (1)   Plant material shall be not located within drainage and utility
easement and not closer than five feet (5') from the fence line or property
line.
         (2)   Landscape screen plant material shall be in two (2) or more rows
and staggered.
         (3)   Shrubs shall be arranged to lessen the visual gaps between
trees. Deciduous shrubs shall not be planted more than four feet (4') on
center, and/or evergreen shrubs shall not be planted more than three feet (3')
on center.
         (4)   Deciduous trees intended for screening shall be planted not more
than forty feet (40') apart. Evergreen trees intended for screening shall be
planted not more than fifteen feet (15') apart.
         (b)   Landscaping and minimum six foot (6') tall berms. The landscape
screen shall follow the requirements in subsection (C)1 of this section. The
slope of the earth berm shall not exceed a three to one (3:1) slope unless
approved by the city engineer. The earth berm shall contain no less than four
inches (4") of topsoil.
      2.   Loading dock areas shall be landscaped and/or screened so that the
visual and acoustic impacts of their function is fully contained and out of
view of adjacent properties and public streets. The required width for a
landscaped yard along a local collector/industrial or local street is ten feet
(10').
      3.   Trash containers or trash compactors shall not be located within
twenty feet (20') of any street, sidewalk or internal pedestrianway and shall
be screened by a six foot (6') masonry wall on three (3) sides of the trash
unit.
   (D)   Screening in Mixed Use Districts: Screening of service yards, refuse,
and waste removal areas, loading docks, truck parking areas, and other areas
which tend to be unsightly, shall be accomplished by use of a fence, wall,
landscaping, or any combination of these elements-Screening shall block views
from public rights of way, private street, and off street parking areas, and
shall be equally effective in winter and summer. Chain link and slatted fencing
are prohibited.
   (E)   Screening of Stored Waste Material: Screening shall be required in all
districts where waste material is stored other than in an enclosed building.
(Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
   (F)   Screening of Roof Mounted Equipment: All new construction in the R-1
(nonresidential uses only), R-2 (nonresidential uses only), R-3 (nonresidential
uses only), R-5, B, I-1, IP, SSC, business/commercial flex, and mixed use
zoning districts shall require rooftop equipment to be centrally located,
except in cases where the property owner can show that this is not feasible, in
which case the most unobtrusive feasible rooftop location shall be used.
Screening shall consist of either a parapet wall along the roof edge or an
opaque screen constructed of the same material as the building's primary
vertical exposed exterior finish. Equipment shall be painted a neutral color.
The site plan shall indicate all mechanical rooftop equipment and shall include
elevations.
   (G)   Screening of Double Frontage Lots Adjacent to Collector and Minor
Arterial Roadways: All subdivided land, included in all districts, which backs
up to a collector or minor arterial street, either at right angles or parallel
to the collector or arterial, shall provide for each double frontage lot an
additional twenty feet (20') from the edge of the right of way line toward the
property in order to allow space for buffering/screening along the back lot
line. The developer shall be required to install the screening and this area
may be screened by either a six foot (6') high wood fence with landscaping
located between the fence and the property line, a berm with landscaping, a
hedgerow, or an opaque landscaped screen. The plantings should be installed in
order to provide one hundred percent (100%) screening of rear buildings from
the collector or minor arterial street. (Ord. 005-545, 10-17-2005; amd. Ord.
009-613, 10-19-2009; Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021)
10-6-10: LANDSCAPING:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this landscaping regulation is:
      1.   To provide vegetation to enhance the architecture of structures and
soften and enhance the visual impact of buildings and paved areas.
      2.   To minimize environmental effects of a development on a particular
site and surrounding area by providing shade, erosion control, air
purification, groundwater recharge, oxygen regeneration and noise, glare, and
heat abatement.
      3.   To protect and preserve the appearance, character, and value of
property and thereby promote the general welfare of the city.
      4.   To buffer conflicting land uses and enhance the quality and
appearance of the entire site.
   (B)   Landscape Plan Requirements: Plans for required landscaping in the B-
1, B-2, B-3, SSMU, MUCI, MUCR, and I districts and for multi-family dwellings
shall be submitted to the planner for approval before any permits are issued.
The plan shall be based on accurate final site plans and consist of a planting
plan and exterior lighting plan. A registered landscape architect, registered
architect, certified arborist, horticulturist or landscape designer shall
prepare the plan.
   (C)   Landscape Plan Contents: A landscape plan shall include the following
information:
      1.   North point and graphic scale, not less than one inch (1") to one
hundred feet (100').
      2.   The name of the project; developer; owner; and the person who
prepared the plan, with their professional designation; and the date and
revision dates of the plan.
      3.   Accurate final grades at two foot (2') contour intervals.
      4.   The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed structures,
parking lots and drives, curbs, sidewalks, refuse disposal areas, fences, storm
drainage systems, freestanding electrical equipment, recreational facilities
and other freestanding structural features as determined necessary by the city.
      5.   The location, size, and type of all overhead, at grade, and
underground utilities and structures with proper notation, where appropriate,
as to any safety hazards to avoid during landscape installation.
      6.   The location, type, sizes and quantity of all proposed landscape
materials shall be delineated on the plan. Proposed plant material shall be
shown at maturity and called out on plan by common name or appropriate key.
      7.   All plans shall be accompanied by a list or schedule of proposed
landscape material, including common and botanical name, the quantity of
proposed plants and trees, their height, caliper or gallon size and any
requirements during installation.
      8.   Location of hose connections and other watering sources including
the location of irrigation systems.
      9.   Any existing vegetation proposed to be saved shall be identified by
name, quantity and size. Methods of protecting the vegetation must be
illustrated and explained. Any existing trees, twelve inch (12") diameter or
larger measured at four and one-half feet (41/2') above ground that are
proposed for removal, must be included on the plan.
      10.   Water permeability test results are required to be shown on the
landscape plan. See subsection (E)2 of this section for testing techniques.
   (D)   General Landscaping:
      1.   Landscaping Required: All areas not covered by buildings, paved
areas, or other acceptable improvements shall be finish graded and installed
with turf grass or other acceptable plant material. Any outdoor storage area
shall be surfaced to control dust.
      2.   Developed Uses: In all residential, business and industrial
districts, except in B-2, developed uses shall provide a landscaped yard along
all public streets. This yard shall be free from structures, storage and off
street parking, except for driveways, and shall be at least ten feet (10') in
depth.
      3.   Business Uses: Where lots or parcels in any nonresidential zoning
district are within one hundred feet (100') of a residential zoning district
(R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-5) a landscaped yard ten feet (10') in width shall be
installed; the required one hundred percent (100%) screening (plant material,
fence, etc.), as described in Sec. 10-6-9, shall be installed within the
landscaped yard.
      4.   Industrial Uses:
         (a)   Where lots or parcels in any nonresidential zoning district are
within one hundred feet (100') of a residential zoning district (R-1. R-2. R-3.
and R-5) a landscaped yard twenty-five feet (25') in width shall be installed;
the required one hundred percent (100%) screening (plant material, fence,
etc.). as described in Sec. 10-6-9. shall be installed within the landscaped
yard.
         (b)   All open spaces shall be dustproofed. surfaced, landscaped,
rockscaped or devoted to lawns.
         (c)   Not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the required building setback
area from any dedicated street shall be landscaped with lawns, trees, shrubs
and walkways.
         (d)   Landscaping shall be installed within ninety (90) days of
occupancy or substantial completion of building, whichever occurs first,
weather permitting.
      5.   High Density: High density residential developments which range from
seven (7) and sixty (60) units per acre shall include at least twenty percent
(20%) of the parcel as landscaped open space and ten percent (10%) of the
parcel must be developed for private recreation and/or common open space.
      6.   New Construction: New business construction in the B-1 limited
business district shall maintain a minimum of ten percent (10%) of the site
area as landscaped open space devoted to pedestrian use.
      7.   Off Street Parking: Any off street parking lot containing more than
six (6) parking spaces shall be landscaped along the perimeter of the parking
lot as follows:
         (a)   Number of Plant Materials: One tree and three (3) shrubs for
every forty feet (40') of parking lot perimeter installed as close to forty
feet (40') as possible along the parking lot frontage, allowing for utilities
and intersection visibility requirements, in order to shade and enhance the
appearance of the parking lot. Shrub plantings should be planted in groups of
three (3) or more and installed to visually buffer the parking lot and roadway.
         (b)   Minimum Landscape Area: A continuous nonpaved area at least ten
feet (10') in width, shall be located between the edge of the parking lot and
the property line.
         (c)   Plant Species: Large canopy trees should be installed to provide
shade for parking spaces. Evergreen trees should be used to screen parking lots
and interior roadways. Visual buffers shall be a maximum of three feet (3') in
height at maturity. No plant material or berm may be located so as to obstruct
the sight distance of motorists entering or leaving the site.
      8.   Parking Lots: Any parking lot containing more than twenty (20)
parking spaces shall provide landscaping as follows:
         (a)   Number of Plant Materials: A minimum of one tree and three (3)
shrubs for every twenty (20) parking spaces is required. Each interior island
shall have at least one canopy tree that does not impede vehicular visibility.
         (b)   Location of Interior Islands: A minimum of one interior planting
island for every twenty (20) parking spaces is required and shall be dispersed
throughout the parking lot with the final layout design subject to review by
the community development department.
         (c)   Interior Planting Island: The planting island shall have a
minimum width of eight feet (8'), a maximum length of sixteen feet (16'), and a
minimum area of one hundred twenty eight (128) square feet. A minimum of
seventy percent (70%) of every interior planting island shall be planted with
live plant material, such as trees, shrubs, ground cover, or turf grass. The
shrubs and ground cover shall be a maximum height of three feet (3') at
maturity. The remaining area of the interior planting island shall be covered
with an organic mulch.
         (d)   Location of Conduits: In cases where lighting conduits are
installed within the interior planting islands, the conduits shall be located
along the edge of the curb and not through the middle of the island in order to
allow for the installation of plant material.
         (e)   End Islands of Parking Aisles: The end islands of all parking
aisles and corners must be a minimum width of eight feet (8') and a maximum
length of sixteen feet (16') for a single parking aisle or thirty two feet
(32') for double parking aisles. The end islands shall be landscaped as
required above.
         (f)   Concrete Curbing: Concrete curbing is required for parking
islands within the parking lot area.
         (g)   Suggested Location of Interior Islands for Safety: Parking lots
shall be designed to promote safety for automobile drivers and pedestrians. In
designing parking spaces, the driving aisles should be aligned toward the major
destination as permitted by topography. This allows for pedestrian traffic to
move through the aisles instead of crossing parking bays. One solution to
quality parking is to locate a planting island between parked cars and install
a sidewalk for easy access to the major destination as permitted by topography.
Plantings may be located along the sidewalk to promote an aesthetic approach
toward the building.
   (E)   Planting Requirements:
      1.   Specifications: The minimum planting sizes for all plant material is
the following:
         (a)   Evergreen trees: Six feet (6') in height as specified by the
American Association of Nurserymen, except for the true dwarf varieties.
         (b)   Ground cover plants: Crowns, plugs, containers, in a number as
appropriate by species to provide fifty percent (50%) surface coverage after
one growing season. The species must provide seventy five percent (75%) to one
hundred percent (100%) surface coverage after two (2) growing seasons.
         (c)   Medium and large deciduous shade trees: Two inch (2") caliper,
as measured six inches (6") above the ground as specified by the American
Association Of Nurserymen.
         (d)   Shrubs (deciduous and evergreen, including spreader and globe
tree forms): Twelve inches (12") to eighteen inches (18") in height.
         (e)   Small deciduous or ornamental trees: Minimum caliper of one and
one-half inches (11/2") as specified by the American Association of Nurserymen,
except for the true dwarf varieties.
         (f)   Sod: As required to provide coverage and soil stabilization. Sod
is required in the street side yard or front yard and seeding may be planted
within other areas of the yard.
         (g)   Turf and native grass: Seeding as appropriate to provide
complete coverage within the first growing season.
      2.   Soil Specifications: The landscape plan must contain results of a
water permeability test. A water permeability test is required in order to
determine the type of soil the plant material is planted in. This requires a
sharp shooter spade dug eighteen inches (18") into the ground. Fill the hole
with water and if after eighteen (18) hours the hole still retains the water,
the soil is determined to be too poor for planting.
      3.   Poor Soil Remedies: If the soil is determined to be too poor for
planting, the following two (2) possible remedies are recommended. The first
remedy is to install a ten foot (10') wide raised planting bed in order to
provide acceptable planting soil. The height of the bed is the amount of soil
it takes to cover the root ball of the plant to a level of two inches (2")
above the ball. The bed must be covered with four inches (4") of mulch to
provide for moisture retention. A second remedy is to excavate the soil to the
depth of the root ball, allowing the root ball to rest on the clay soil.
Excavate an area five (5) times the size of the root ball and replace the soil
with quality planting soil. This will allow the tree roots to spread into
adequate soil and provide an established root system before spreading into the
poorer soil.
   (F)   Lot Frontage Tree and Boulevard Tree Species:
      1.   Prohibited Species:
         (a)   In no cases shall prohibited species be planted as boulevard
trees. Prohibited species are defined as the following trees:
         Ash species
         Box elder
         Evergreens
         Ginkgo (female only)
         Nondisease resistant elm species
         Nonhybrid cottonwood species
         Silver maple
         (b)   In no cases shall prohibited species be planted as lot frontage
trees. Prohibited species are defined as the following trees:
         Ash species
         Box elder
         Nondisease resistant elm species
         Nonhybrid cottonwood species
         Silver maple
      2.   Landscape Plan: Developers of new developments must submit a
landscape plan to the planning division. The planning division will be
responsible for approving appropriate lot frontage and boulevard tree
plantings. The lot frontage trees are required in the front yards of lots in
new developments. Boulevard trees in new developments shall only be installed
on city approved boulevard tree routes. The only exception would be if an
agreement is made with a homeowners' association or other such organization
where the responsibility to maintain the trees is that of the named
organization in perpetuity.
         (a)   Spacing for Lot Frontage and Boulevard Trees:
            (1)   Lot frontage trees in new developments shall be installed on
private property in the front yard at a minimum spacing of one tree for every
forty feet (40') of lot frontage or one tree per lot if forty feet (40') is not
feasible. The developer is responsible for installing the lot frontage trees
per the landscape plan as required by the development contract. Special
planting designs for lot frontage trees need to be approved by the planning
division.
            (2)   Boulevard trees in new developments shall be located on city
approved boulevard tree routes and be installed at a minimum spacing of one
tree for every forty feet (40') of boulevard frontage or one tree per boulevard
frontage if forty feet (40') is not feasible. The developer is responsible for
installing the boulevard trees per the landscape plan as required by the
development contract.
         (b)   Location for Lot Frontage and Boulevard Trees:
            (1)   Lot frontage trees in new developments shall be planted by
the developer per the development contract on private property eight feet (8')
from the front property line and shall be installed in a parallel line to the
front lot line.
            (2)   Boulevard trees in new developments shall be planted by the
developer per the development contract on city approved boulevard tree routes
in the center of the city boulevard width between the property line and curb or
the sidewalk and curb. The distance trees may be planted from curbs, sidewalks,
trails, or pavement shall be no closer than four feet (4').
         (c)   Distance from Street Corners and Fire Hydrants: No lot frontage
tree, boulevard tree, replacement tree, landscape material or fences shall be
located within the triangle of visibility, which is the area within a triangle
created by measuring from a point on the curb or edge of the street closest to
the center of the intersection, down the front curb lines or edge or
intersecting streets thirty feet (30'), and connecting their end points with a
straight line. No lot frontage tree, boulevard tree, or replacement tree shall
be planted closer than ten feet (10') from any fire hydrant.
         (d)   Utilities: No lot frontage tree, boulevard tree, or replacement
tree may be planted within ten (10) lateral feet of any underground water line
or sewer line (sanitary or storm) and two feet (2') from any other underground
utility. Gopher State One shall be called to request locations of utilities.
   (G)   Tree Maintenance:
      1.   The natural resources program is designed to prescribe various
levels of maintenance to city boulevard trees located within city boulevards.
         (a)   Planting Requirements: The natural resources division will
review all planting of trees and shrubs within "city boulevards", defined as
the area between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the city.
         (b)   Replacement of Trees:
            (1)   The city shall be responsible for removing existing boulevard
trees that have died, are dying, or sustained severe damage. The city shall
replace trees on designated boulevard tree routes.
            (2)   The owner of any lot of record may, at his or her own risk,
replace a dead boulevard tree in the front yard of the home outside of side
yard drainage and utility easements at eight feet (8') from the property line
in front yard drainage and utility easements.
         (c)   Trimming Requirements: The city will be responsible for all
trimming of boulevard trees. As these trees are on city property, and are
essentially and legally city property, they must be maintained by the city to
ensure that they are properly trimmed for structural integrity and disease
control measures.
         (d)   Responsibility for Maintenance of Trees:
            (1)   The city will inspect and trim boulevard trees.
            (2)   The homeowner shall be responsible for trimming lot frontage
trees or any other trees on private property.
         (e)   Height Standards: Trimming height standards must maintain a ten
foot (10') clearance above any walkway and fourteen feet (14') above the
roadway. These requirements provide clearance for walkers, snow removal
equipment and solid waste vehicles.
         (f)   Brush from Pruning: The city will not collect any brush
resulting from pruning or removal of trees or brush from private property.
         (g)   Emergency Collection of Brush: An emergency brush situation
would occur when the public safety officer declares one to exist. Then and only
then will the city collect brush generated by residents on private property, as
a onetime emergency service.
   (H)   Tree Topping:
      1.   It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person to top any
street tree, park tree or other tree on public property except as allowed in
section
8-6-10 of this code. "Topping" is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs
to stubs larger than three inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown to
such a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees
severely damaged by storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility
wires or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may
be exempted from this subsection at the determination of the natural resources
division.
   (I)   Pruning, Corner Clearance:
      1.   Prune branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the view of
any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of ten feet
(10') above the surface of the street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all
dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs that constitute a
menace to the safety of the public. The city shall have the right to prune any
tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of
light along the street from a streetlight or interferes with visibility of any
traffic control device or sign.
   (J)   Dead or Diseased Tree Removal on Private Property:
      1.   The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased trees on private property within the city in accordance with title 7,
chapter 6 of this code when such trees constitute a hazard to life and
property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to
other trees in the city. The natural resources division will notify, in
writing, the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at
their own expense within sixty (60) days after the date of service of notice.
In the event of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the city
shall have the authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on
the owners' property tax notices.
   (K)   Removal of Stumps:
      1.   All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the
surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the
surface of the ground.
   (L)   Tree Protection in Construction Zones:
      1.   Specifications: Existing trees and vegetation that are to be saved
shall be protected from all construction activities, including earthwork
operations, movement and storage of equipment, and materials and dumping of
toxic materials. A minimum protection zone shall be established by the
installation of temporary fencing around existing vegetation to be preserved,
placing the fencing no closer to the trees than their drip lines, and this
information shown and noted on the plans. Protective fencing shall be
maintained throughout the construction period. Alternative protection measures
may be approved by the zoning officer. Construction details which indicate
special techniques that will be employed to save trees are required for all
existing trees for which credit is desired. Existing trees will be counted as
fulfilling the landscaping requirements of this section. Trees counted shall be
all existing deciduous trees with a trunk size of four inches (4") or larger,
measured at four and one-half feet (41/2') above the ground and all existing
evergreen trees measuring five (5) vertical feet or more in height.
      2.   Replacement: If any of the trees required to be retained or trees
planted as part of the landscaping plan should die within a period of two (2)
years after completion of the activities associated with construction of the
site, the owner of the property must replace the trees within six (6) months at
a ratio of one to one (1:1) with an approved tree having a minimum diameter of
two inches (2") measured at a point six inches (6") above the natural grade.
Shrubbery or other plantings which die within two (2) years of completion of
the activities shall be replaced in kind within six (6) months.
   (M)   Overhead Utility Line Planting Requirements:
      1.   Location: Overhead utility lines must be located on the landscape
plan. In order to allow for maintenance of the lines, if an overhead utility
line is located in the rear yard along the property line, the buffer plantings
required in the buffer yard shall be installed following guidelines set below.
If the overhead utility line is located in the rear yard, but five feet (5') to
ten feet (10') from the property line, the screening and buffer yard plantings
shall be installed along the property line with city staff approval.
      2.   Species: The following guidelines must be considered when planting
near overhead utility lines. Considerations should be given to soil conditions,
drainage, exposure, growth patterns, and local experience when selecting plant
materials.
 
Type         Height                          Where Planted
Shrubs       Maximum of 15 feet              Under overhead lines
Small trees  Over 15 feet, but under 30 feet At least 15 feet from overhead
                                             utility lines
Medium trees 30 - 70 feet                    At least 35 feet from overhead
                                             utility lines
Large trees  Over 70 feet                    At least 45 feet from overhead
                                             utility lines
 
   (N)   Landscape Guarantee:
      1.   Guarantee: All new plantings shall be guaranteed for two (2) full
years from the time planting has been completed. Plants not alive at the end of
the guarantee period shall be replaced.
      2.   Surety: Prior to approval of the landscape plan, the applicant shall
submit surety acceptable to the city administrator in the amount of the
established costs of complying with the plan. The aforesaid surety shall be
provided for guaranteeing completion and compliance with the plan.
      3.   Completion or Bond: A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued
until either the landscaping is completed or a bond has been filed. (Ord. 016-
716, 9-6-2016; amd. Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021)
10-6-11: WOODLAND AND TREE PRESERVATION:
   (A)   Intent: It is the intent of the city of Farmington to protect,
preserve and enhance the natural environment of Farmington, to encourage a
resourceful and prudent approach to the development of wooded areas, and to
retain, as far as practicable, substantial existing tree cover. The city
recognizes the value of trees and woodlands for improving air quality,
protection against wind and water erosion, shade, energy conservation, wildlife
habitat, scenic beauty, and protecting the integrity of the natural
environment.
   (B)   Definitions: Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used
in this section shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as
they have in common usage and to give this section its most reasonable
application.
   COMMON TREE: Includes ash, aspen, box elder, cottonwood, elm, hackberry,
locust, poplar, silver maple, willow, and any other tree species not defined as
a "hardwood deciduous tree" or a "coniferous/evergreen tree".
   CONIFEROUS/EVERGREEN TREE: A woody plant, which, at maturity, is at least
twelve feet (12') or more in height and has foliage on the outermost portion of
the branches year round. Tamaracks (larch) are included as a coniferous tree
species.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY: A disturbance to the land that results in a change in
the topography, existing soil cover (both vegetated and nonvegetated), or the
existing soil topography that may result in accelerated stormwater runoff,
leading to soil erosion and movement of sediment into surface waters or
drainage systems. Examples of construction activity may include clearing,
grading, filling, excavating, building construction and landscaping.
   CONSTRUCTION DAMAGE: Any action such as filling, scraping, trenching or
compacting the soil around trees or wounding trees in such a manner that it may
result in the eventual death of the tree.
   CRITICAL ROOT ZONE: An imaginary circle surrounding the tree trunk with a
radius distance of one foot (1') per one inch (1") of tree diameter, e.g., a
twenty inch (20") diameter tree has a critical root zone with a radius of
twenty feet (20').
   DECIDUOUS TREE: A woody plant which, at maturity, is at least fifteen feet
(15') or more in height, has a defined crown, and sheds leaves annually.
   DIAMETER: The diameter of the main stem of the tree at a point four and one-
half feet (4.5') above the ground.
   DRIP LINE: The farthest distance away from the trunk of a tree that rain or
dew will fall directly to the ground from the leaves or the branches of the
tree.
   HARDWOOD DECIDUOUS TREE: Includes birch, basswood, black cherry, catalpa,
hickory, ironwood, hard maples, oak and walnut.
   INVASIVE TREE SPECIES: A tree species that is nonnative to the ecosystem and
whose introduction causes economic or environmental harm. Invasive tree species
include, but are not limited to, common buckthorn (Rhamnus cathartica), glossy
buckthorn (Rhamnus frangula), tartarian honeysuckle (Lonicera tatarica), amur
maple (Acer ginnala), and Siberian elm (Ulmus pumila).
   LANDSCAPING: Plantings such as trees, grass and shrubs.
   NUISANCE TREE: 1. Any living or standing tree or part thereof infected to
any degree with a shade tree disease or shade tree pest.
      2.   Any logs, stumps, branches, firewood, or other part of dead or dying
tree(s) infected with a shade tree disease or shade tree pest unless properly
treated under the direction of the city forester-tree inspector.
      3.   Any standing dead trees or limbs which may threaten human health or
property.
   SHADE TREE DISEASE: Includes Dutch elm disease (Ophiostoma ulmi), oak wilt
(Ceratocystis fagacearum), or any other tree disease of epidemic nature.
   SHADE TREE PEST: Includes emerald ash borer (Agrilus planipenis), European
elm bark beetle (Scolytus multistrialus), native elm bark beetle (Hylurgopinus
rufipes) or any other shade tree pest with potential to cause widespread
damage.
   SIGNIFICANT TREE: A healthy tree measuring a minimum of six inches (6") in
diameter for hardwood deciduous trees, eight inches (8") in diameter for
coniferous/evergreen trees, or twelve inches (12") in diameter for common
trees, as defined in this section.
   SIGNIFICANT WOODLAND: A treed area of at least fifteen thousand (15,000)
square feet or more which includes significant trees.
   SPECIMEN TREE: A healthy hardwood deciduous tree measuring equal to or
greater than thirty inches (30") in diameter.
   WOODLAND PRESERVATION PLAN: A plan prepared by a certified forester or
landscape architect that clearly shows which trees on a site are to be
preserved, and what measures will be taken to preserve them. The plan will also
include calculations to determine the number of replacement trees required.
   (C)   Applicability:
      1.   Woodland Preservation Plan: A woodland preservation plan shall be
submitted to and approved by the city, and implemented in accord with the plan
in connection with any of the following:
            (a)    New development in any zoning district.
            (b)    New building construction in any zoning district.
            (c)    Expansion of any existing commercial, industrial or
institutional building where an approved tree preservation plan is not on file
with the city.
            (d)    Any project for which a city land disturbance permit is
required.
            (e)    Any landscape plan as required by section
10-6-10 of this chapter when significant trees or significant woodlands exist
in the proposed construction zone.
      2.   Woodland Preservation Plan Requirements: The woodland preservation
plan shall reflect the developer's best effort to determine the most feasible
and practical layout of buildings, parking lots, driveways, streets, storage
and other physical features, so that the fewest significant trees and/or
smallest area of significant woodland are destroyed or damaged. The woodland
preservation plan shall be a separate plan sheet(s) that include the following
information:
            (a)    The name and address of the applicant, and status of the
applicant with respect to the land.
            (b)    The name, telephone number(s) and address of the person
responsible for tree preservation during the course of the development project.
            (c)    Written consent of the owner of the land, if the applicant
is not the owner.
            (d)    Location of the property, including a street address and
legal description.
            (e)    Boundary lines of the property with accurate dimensions as
established by survey.
            (f)    Location of all existing and proposed structures, roads,
utilities and driveways on the site.
            (g)    A tree inventory, indicating the size, species, general
health, and location of all existing significant trees, specimen trees and
significant woodlands located within the area to be developed or within the
parcel of record. All significant trees and specimen trees must be tagged in
the field for reference on the tree preservation plan. These significant trees
should be identified on the plan sheet in both graphic and tabular form.
            (h)    Trees that were planted as part of a commercial business
such as a tree farm or nursery do not need to be inventoried on an individual
basis. A general description of the trees and an outer boundary of the planted
area must be provided. The burden of proof shall be on the applicant to provide
evidence to support the finding that the trees were planted as part of a
commercial business.
            (i)    A listing of the total diameter inches of healthy
significant trees inventoried in subsection (C)2(g) of this section. Dead,
diseased or dying trees and invasive tree species do not need to be included in
the totals.
            (j)    A listing of the total diameter inches of healthy
significant trees proposed to be removed, total diameter inches of healthy
hardwood deciduous trees to be removed, total diameter inches of healthy
coniferous/evergreen trees to be removed, and total diameter inches of common
trees to be removed.
            (k)    Outer boundaries and areas (acres) of all contiguous wooded
areas or significant woodlands, with a general description of the natural
community type or predominant canopy tree species not meeting the significant
tree size threshold.
            (l)    Locations of the proposed buildings, structures, or
impervious surfaces.
            (m)    Delineation of all areas to be graded and limits of land
disturbance, showing one foot (1') or two foot (2') contour intervals.
            (n)    Measures proposed to be implemented to protect significant
trees and specimen trees, including required protective measures and any
additional protective measures as identified in this section.
            (o)    Size, species, number and location of all replacement trees
or woodlands to be planted on the property in accord with the tree replacement
schedule. Replacement trees or woodlands shall not include invasive tree
species.
            (p)    Signature and qualifications of the person(s) preparing the
plan. The plan shall be certified by a forester, ecologist, landscape architect
or other qualified professional retained by the applicant.
      3.   Submission Requirements: The woodland preservation plan shall be
submitted with any preliminary plat plan, site plan or landscape plan, as
required by the regulations of this code; or incorporated as part of a grading
plan and application for any grading permit as required by this code.
      4.   Implementation: All sites shall be staked, as depicted in the
approved tree preservation plan, and the required tree protection fencing shall
be installed before land disturbance is to commence. The city shall inspect the
construction site prior to the beginning of the land disturbance to ensure that
protective fencing and other protective measures are in place. No encroachment,
land disturbance, trenching, filling, compaction or change in soil chemistry
shall occur within the fenced areas protecting the critical root zone of the
trees to be saved.
      5.   Allowable Tree Removal: Up to thirty percent (30%) of the diameter
inches of significant trees on any parcel of land being developed may be
removed without replacement requirements. Replacement according to the tree
replacement schedule is required when removal exceeds more than thirty percent
(30%) of the total significant tree diameter inches.
The following types of trees do not need to be included as part of the tally of
tree removals:
            (a)    Dead, diseased, or dying trees.
            (b)    Trees that are transplanted from the site to another
appropriate area within the city.
            (c)    Trees that were planted as part of a commercial business
such as a tree farm or nursery.
            (d)    Invasive tree species.
      6.   Mitigation: In any development where the allowable tree removal is
exceeded, the applicant shall mitigate the tree loss by:
            (a)    Planting replacement trees in appropriate areas within the
development in accordance with the tree replacement schedule; or
            (b)    Planting replacement trees on city property under the
direction of the parks and recreation director or natural resource specialist;
or
            (c)    Paying the city the fee set forth in the fee schedule
adopted by city council by ordinance. The payment shall be deposited into an
account designated specifically for tree planting.
      7.   Tree Replacement Calculations: Thirty percent (30%) of the total
diameter inches of significant trees on the site may be removed without
replacement. The allowable thirty percent (30%) removal is first credited to
the common trees removed, then the conifers, and lastly the hardwood species.
The following calculation procedure must be used to determine tree placement
requirements:
            (a)    Calculate thirty percent (30%) of the total diameter inches
of significant trees on the site. This is the allowable tree removal limit, or
the number of inches that can be removed without replacement.
            (b)    Subtract the total diameter inches of common tree species
that will be removed from the allowable limit.
            (c)    If there are any allowable inches left, subtract the total
diameter inches of coniferous/evergreen tree species that will be removed from
the remaining allowable inches.
            (d)    If there are any allowable inches left, subtract the total
diameter inches of hardwood deciduous tree species that will be removed from
the remaining allowable inches.
If at any point in the above calculation procedure the number of inches to be
removed exceeds the thirty percent (30%) allowable removal limit, the remaining
inches of removal above the allowable limit must be replaced according to the
tree replacement schedule in subsection (C)8 of this section.
      8.   Tree Replacement Schedule: Tree removals over the allowable tree
removal limit on the parcel shall be replaced according to the following
schedule:
            (a)    Common tree species shall be replaced with new trees, at a
rate of one-eighth (1/8) the diameter inches lost (i.e., 1 inch diameter of
replacement trees for each 8 inches of tree diameter lost). Replacement trees
must be a minimum of one inch (1") diameter.
            (b)    Coniferous/evergreen species shall be replaced with new
trees, coniferous or deciduous, at a rate of one-fourth (1/4) the diameter
inches lost (i.e., 1 inch diameter of replacement trees for each 4 inches of
tree diameter lost). Replacement trees must be a minimum of one inch (1") in
diameter. Since coniferous species are often sold by height rather than
diameter inch, the following conversion formula can be used:
Height of replacement coniferous tree/2 = Diameter inches of credit
            (c)    Hardwood deciduous tree species shall be replaced with new
hardwood deciduous trees at a rate of one-half (1/2) the diameter inches lost
(i.e., 1 inch diameter of replacement trees for each 2 inches of tree diameter
lost). Replacement trees must be a minimum of one inch (1") in diameter.
      9.   Significant Woodland Replacement: All significant woodlands removed
must be replaced by the applicant. The number of replacement trees shall be
determined by either of the following methods. Either method of replacement may
be used when the number of replacement trees required is equal, or the
applicant shall utilize the method that yields the greater number of
replacement trees:
            (a)    Replacement of significant trees within the significant
woodland that are damaged or destroyed, per the tree replacement schedule
described in subsection (C)8 of this section.
            (b)    Replacement for every one hundred twenty five (125) square
feet of significant woodland damaged or destroyed, or increment thereof, with:
               (1)    One deciduous tree of at least four (4) caliper inches or
one coniferous tree at least twelve feet (12') tall; or
               (2)    Two (2) deciduous trees of at least 2.5 caliper inches or
two (2) coniferous trees at least six feet (6') tall; or
               (3)    Four (4) deciduous trees of at least 1.5 caliper inches
or four (4) coniferous trees at least four feet (4') tall.
            (c)    Trees planted to replace significant woodlands must be
arranged in stands to provide a habitat similar to the damaged or destroyed
habitat. An appropriate native understory seed mix must be planted along with
the replacement trees.
      10.   Species Requirement: The city must approve all species used for
tree replacement. Ornamental trees are not acceptable for use as replacement
trees. Where ten (10) or more replacement trees are required, not more than
thirty percent (30%) of the replacement trees shall be of the same species.
      11.   Warranty Requirement: Any replacement tree which is not alive or
healthy, as determined by the city, or which subsequently dies due to
construction activity within two (2) years after the date of project closure
shall be removed by the applicant and replaced with a new healthy tree meeting
the same minimum size requirements within eight (8) months of removal.
      12.   Performance Guarantee: The applicant shall provide the required
performance guarantee following preliminary approval of the woodland
preservation plan, and prior to any construction and/or grading. The amount of
the performance guarantee shall be based on the city's fee schedule.
      13.   Required Protective Measures: The woodland preservation plan shall
identify the measures to be utilized to protect significant trees. The
following measures are required to be utilized to protect significant trees:
            (a)    Installation of snow fencing or polyethylene laminate safety
netting placed at the drip line or at the perimeter of the critical root zone,
whichever is greater, of significant trees, specimen trees, and significant
woodlands to be preserved. No grade change, construction activity, or storage
of materials shall occur within this fenced area.
            (b)    Identification of any oak trees requiring pruning between
April 15 and July 1. Any oak trees so pruned shall be required to have any cut
areas sealed with an appropriate nontoxic tree wound sealant.
            (c)    Prevention of change in soil chemistry due to concrete
washout and leakage or spillage of toxic materials, such as fuels or paints.
            (d)    Removal of any nuisance trees located in the areas to be
preserved.
      14.   Additional Protective Measures: The following measures to protect
significant trees that are intended to be preserved according to the submitted
tree preservation plan may be required by the city:
            (a)    Installation of retaining walls or tree wells to preserve
trees.
            (b)    Placement of utilities in common trenches outside of the
drip line of significant trees, or use of tunneled installation.
            (c)    Use of tree root aeration, fertilization, and/or irrigation
systems.
            (d)    Therapeutic pruning.
      15.   Incentives For Woodland Protection: As an incentive to protect
contiguous wooded areas, the city will allow the following:
            (a)    Density Transfer: Density of units that would be allowed in
a protected woodland area may be transferred to other areas of the development,
in excess of the density limits of the underlying zoning district. In order for
the density transfer to be approved, the protected woodland must be an easement
dedicated to the city.
            (b)    Unit Bonus: For each acre of wooded area preserved and
dedicated to the city over and above the normal ten percent (10%) park land
dedication, the developer will be allowed an additional unit above the original
unit allocation.
            (c)    Tree Bank Areas: Developers that own parcels without trees
may dedicate appropriate areas of their plats as "tree bank" areas. These areas
would be available to accept trees planted as mitigation for tree removals from
other sites. For each acre of "tree bank" area permanently dedicated to the
city over and above the normal park land dedication, the developer will be
allowed an additional unit above the original unit allocation. The dedication
may include establishment of a fund for maintenance of the tree bank, based on
the recommendation of the park and recreation director or the natural resource
specialist. The areas proposed to be dedicated to a tree bank must be
consistent with the city's comprehensive plan provisions for greenway
opportunities, park plans, etc., or must be adjacent to or provide an
enhancement to existing park facilities. Property dedicated must be usable
upland (not wetlands, ponds or utility easements, etc.). The city retains the
right to determine whether or not it will accept the property proposed to be
dedicated for a tree bank.
      16.   Compliance With The Woodland Protection Plan: The applicant shall
implement the woodland preservation plan prior to and during any construction.
The woodland protection measures shall remain in place until all land
disturbance and construction activity is terminated or until a request to
remove the woodland and tree protection measures is made to, and approved by,
the city.
            (a)    No significant trees shall be removed until a woodland
preservation plan is approved and except in accordance with the approved tree
preservation plan as approved by the city. If a significant tree(s) intended to
be preserved is removed without permission of the city or damaged so that it is
in a state of decline within one year from the date of project closure, a cash
mitigation, calculated per diameter inch of the removed/destroyed tree in the
amount set forth in the city fee schedule, shall be remitted to the city.
            (b)    The city shall have the right to inspect the development
and/or building site in order to determine compliance with the approved
woodland preservation plan. The city shall determine whether compliance with
the woodland preservation plan has been met.
      17.   Existing Developed Commercial Properties:
            (a)    Trees that are removed that were part of an approved
landscape plan must be replaced in accordance with the original landscaping
plan, unless city approval is obtained for an alternative landscape plan.
            (b)    Trees that are removed that were part of a designated
woodland preservation area must be replaced in accordance with the tree
replacement requirements outlined in this section. The thirty percent (30%)
allowable tree removal limit does not apply in these situations.
      18.   Exceptions:
            (a)    Exception Standards: Notwithstanding the city's desire to
accomplish the tree protection goals outlined in this section, there may be
instances where these goals are in conflict with other city objectives. These
conflicts are most likely to occur on small, heavily wooded parcels. At the
discretion of the city council, exceptions may be granted if all of the
following conditions exist:
               (1)    The subject parcel is five (5) acres in size or less.
               (2)    It is not feasible to combine the subject parcel with
adjacent parcels that could use the parcel as required green space.
               (3)    Strict adherence to the requirements of this section
would prevent reasonable development that is consistent with the comprehensive
plan and desirable to the city on the parcel.
               (4)    The exception requested is the minimum needed to
accomplish the desired development.
            (b)    Exception Provisions: If an exception is granted, relief
from the requirements of this section may take the form of reduced mitigation
requirements, greater allowable tree removal, higher thresholds for determining
significant trees or any combination of the above. The city council will
approve the form of relief that best balances the objectives of the city and
tree preservation. (Ord. 011-634, 5-16-2011)
10-6-12: FENCES:
Fences shall be permitted in all yards subject to the following:
   (A)   Residential Fence Heights: In residential districts four foot (4')
fences may be located on any lot line except that fences on interior lots may
be six feet (6') in height on the side and rear lot lines beginning at the
nearest front corner of the principal building.
   (B)   Corner Lots: Fences up to six feet (6') in height may be constructed
on the side and rear lot lines behind the nearest front corner of the principal
building subject to the following:
      1.   The front corner of the principal building is defined as beginning
at the widest point of the structure's front street facing foundation as
determined by its street address.
      2.   No fence over four feet (4') in height shall be located within the
triangle of visibility which is that area within a triangle created by
measuring from a point on the curb or edge of the street closest to the center
of the intersection, down the front curb lines or edge of the intersecting
streets thirty feet (30'), and then connecting these end points with a straight
line.
      3.   When a fence is adjacent to a driveway of a neighboring lot, a five
foot (5') triangle of visibility or a five foot (5') setback along the
streetside shall be provided at the intersecting lot lines.
   (C)   Varying Setbacks: Should the fence be located between principal
buildings with varying setbacks on adjacent lots, a fence up to six feet (6')
in height may not extend beyond the average setback of the two (2) buildings.
   (D)   Variance: A variance is required for fences over six feet (6') and up
to eight feet (8') in height when constructed within the buildable areas of
lots in residential districts.
   (E)   Commercial And Industrial Districts: Fences located within commercial
and industrial districts may be located on any lot line up to a height of eight
feet (8') except in the required front yard.
   (F)   Building Permit: An application for a building permit is required for
all fences exceeding six feet (6') in height.
   (G)   Materials: Fences in all districts, except agricultural, shall be
constructed of materials widely accepted in the fencing industry. No plywood
boards, canvas, plastic sheeting, metal sheeting or similar material shall be
used for any fence construction. Electric fences are prohibited.
   (H)   Maintenance: All fences shall be maintained in good condition and
vertical position, and any missing or deteriorated wood slats, pickets, other
fencing material, or structural elements shall be replaced in a timely manner
with the same quality of material and workmanship.
(Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 2024-04, 3-18-2024)
10-6-13: DISPLAY OF VEHICLES FOR SALE:
Vehicles may be advertised for sale from the titleholder's property provided
that they observe district setback requirements and are displayed on the
titleholder's private driveway or parking area. Not more than one vehicle may
be so displayed. No vehicles may be advertised for sale from public property.
(Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-6-14: TOWERS, MONOPOLES, AND ANTENNAS:
Towers, monopoles, and antennas are necessary to facilitate and accommodate the
communication needs of the residents and businesses of the city. The purposes
of this section are:
   (A)   Purpose:
      1.   To provide for wireless telecommunication services for the residents
and businesses of the city;
      2.   To minimize adverse visual impacts of telecommunication towers and
facilities through design, siting, landscaping, and innovative camouflaging
techniques;
      3.   To promote and encourage shared use and collocation of
telecommunication towers and antenna support structures so as to reduce the
number of towers needed to serve the area;
      4.   To avoid damage to adjacent properties caused by telecommunication
towers and facilities by ensuring that those structures are soundly and
carefully designed, constructed, modified, maintained and promptly removed when
no longer used or when determined to be structurally unsound.
   (B)   Districts Allowed:
      1.   Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and conforming to all
applicable provisions of this code shall be allowed only in the rear yard of
residentially zoned parcels.
      2.   Towers or monopoles supporting commercial antennas and conforming to
all applicable provisions of this code shall be allowed as a conditional use
within the A-1, B-1, B-3, I-1, IP and P/OS districts (parks with facilities).
      3.   Towers, monopoles or antennas shall be allowed in the following
residentially zoned locations: schools, churches, public buildings, hospitals,
and clinics and shall conform to all applicable provisions of this code and
shall be allowed as a conditional use. The maximum height of the towers,
monopoles or antennas is seventy five feet (75') for these residentially zoned
locations.
      4.   Antennas may be mounted on structures that serve other purposes such
as light standards, emergency siren poles, or public utility poles provided
they conform to all applicable provisions of this code and shall be allowed as
a conditional use. Structures must be engineered to withstand the additional
load of an antenna.
      5.   Use of existing towers is encouraged and will be exempt from the
conditional use process. Permitting will involve the requirements listed in
this section.
   (C)   Collocation Requirement:
      1.   A proposal for a new personal wireless communication service tower/
monopole shall not be approved unless it can be documented by the applicant
that the communications equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be
accommodated on an existing or approved tower/monopole or building within a
one-half (1/2) mile radius of the proposed tower/monopole due to one or more of
the following reasons:
            (a)    The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity
of the existing or approved tower/monopole or building, as documented by a
qualified and licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved
tower/monopole cannot be reinforced or modified to accommodate planned
equipment at a reasonable cost.
            (b)    The planned equipment would cause interference with other
existing or planned equipment at the tower/monopole or building as documented
by a qualified and licensed professional engineer, and the interference cannot
be prevented at a reasonable cost.
            (c)    No existing or approved towers/monopoles or commercial/
industrial buildings within a one-half (1/2) mile radius meet the radio
frequency (RF) design criteria.
            (d)    Existing or approved towers/monopoles and commercial/
industrial buildings within a one-half (1/2) mile radius cannot accommodate the
planned equipment at a height necessary to function reasonably as documented by
a qualified and licensed professional engineer.
            (e)    The applicant must demonstrate that a good faith effort to
collocate on existing towers/monopoles and structures within a one-half (1/2)
mile radius was made, but an agreement could not be reached.
      2.   Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunications service tower/
monopole shall be designed in all respects to accommodate both the applicant's
antennas and comparable antennas for at least two (2) additional users if the
tower is over one hundred feet (100') in height or for at least one additional
user if the tower/monopole is over seventy five feet (75') in height. Towers/
monopoles must be designed to allow for future rearrangement of antennas upon
the tower/monopole and to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
   (D)   Tower/Monopole Construction Requirements: All towers/monopoles
erected, constructed or located within the city, and all wiring therefor, shall
comply with the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Tower, Monopole, And Antenna Design Requirements: Towers, monopoles,
and antennas shall be designed to blend into the surrounding environment
through the use of color except in instances where the color is dictated by
federal or state authorities. One monopole allowed in parks with facilities. No
crows nests, platforms, or guywires allowed on monopole in any approved
district. Antenna arms are to be separated by ten feet (10').
   (F)   Tower/Monopole Setbacks: Towers shall conform with each of the minimum
setback requirements:
      1.   A tower/monopole in parks with facilities will be set back seventy
five feet (75') from the property line except when qualified engineer report
specifies that any collapse of pole will occur within a lesser distance.
      2.   Towers/monopoles in agricultural districts will be set back from the
property line four feet (4') for every foot of height exceeding forty five feet
(45').
      3.   Towers/monopoles in industrial districts will be set back from the
property line two feet (2') for every foot of height exceeding forty five feet
(45').
      4.   In the B-1, B-3 and IP zoning districts, a monopole will be set back
seventy five feet (75') from the property line except when qualified engineer
report specifies that any collapse of pole will occur within a lesser distance.
   (G)   Tower And Monopole Height: Towers/monopoles, including all attached
antennas, shall be limited to a maximum height of two hundred feet (200'). A
monopole in parks with facilities shall be limited to a maximum height of
seventy five feet (75'). Towers, monopoles or antennas shall be limited to a
maximum height of seventy five feet (75') for residentially zoned locations:
schools, churches, public buildings, hospitals, and clinics.
   (H)   Tower/Monopole Lighting: Towers, monopoles and their antennas shall
not be illuminated by artificial means, except for camouflage purposes
(designed as a lighted tower/monopole for a parking lot or a ball field) or the
illumination is specifically required by the federal aviation administration or
other authority.
   (I)   Signs And Advertising: The use of any portion of a tower/monopole for
signs other than warning or equipment information signs is prohibited.
   (J)   Accessory Utility Buildings: All utility buildings and structures
accessory to a tower/monopole shall be architecturally designed to blend with
the surrounding environment and shall meet the minimum setback requirements of
the zoning district in which they are located. Ground mounted equipment shall
be screened from view by suitable vegetation, except where a design of
nonvegetative screening better reflects and complements the architectural
character of the adjoining neighborhood.
   (K)   Abandoned Or Unused Towers, Monopoles, Antennas Or Portions Of Towers,
Monopoles, Antennas:
      1.   All abandonments or unused towers, monopoles, antennas and
associated facilities shall be removed within ninety (90) days of the cessation
of operations at the site unless a time extension is approved by the city
planner. In the event that a tower is not removed within ninety (90) days of
the cessation of operations at the site, the tower and associated facilities
may be removed by the city and the costs of removal assessed against the
property. A permit fee for the abandonment of the tower, monopole, or antenna
shall be set by the city council.
      2.   Unused portions of towers, monopoles, or antennas above a
manufactured connection shall be removed within ninety (90) days of the time of
antenna relocation. The replacement of portions of a tower previously removed
requires the issuance of a new conditional use permit.
   (L)   Antennas Mounted On Roofs, Walls And Existing Towers/Monopoles: The
placement of wireless telecommunications antennas on roofs, walls and existing
towers/monopoles may be approved by the building official, provided the
antennas meet the requirements of this code, after submittal of:
      1.   A final site and building plan.
      2.   A report prepared by a qualified and licensed professional engineer
indicating the existing structure or tower suitability to accept the antenna,
and the proposed method of affixing the antenna to the structure.
   (M)   Interference With Public Safety Telecommunications: All applications
for new telecommunications service shall be accompanied by an intermodulation
study prepared by a registered professional engineer which provides a technical
evaluation of existing and proposed transmissions and indicates all potential
interference problems. Before introduction of new service or changes in
existing service, telecommunications providers shall notify the city at least
ten (10) calendar days in advance of such changes and allow the city to monitor
interference levels during the testing process.
   (N)   Construction And Maintenance Of Supporting Towers, Monopoles, And
Antennas:
      1.   Permits:
            (a)    Permit Required: It shall be unlawful for any person to
erect, construct in place, place or reerect, replace or repair any tower,
monopole or antenna without first making application to the building official
and securing a permit therefor as hereinafter provided.
            (b)    Submittal Requirements For Permit:
               (1)    Name, address, and telephone number of the applicant;
               (2)    Name, address, and telephone numbers of the owners of the
property on which the tower is proposed to be located;
               (3)    Legal description of the parcel on which the tower is
proposed to be located;
               (4)    Written consent of the property owner(s) to the
application;
               (5)    A scaled site plan indicating the location, type and
height of the proposed tower, the existing land uses and zoning of the subject
parcel, adjacent land uses and zoning, adjacent roadways, proposed means of
access, setbacks from property lines, drawings of the proposed tower showing
elevation and other structures, topography, parking, and depicting the proposed
tower design;
               (6)    A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials,
method of fencing, and finished color and, if applicable, the method of
camouflage and lighting;
               (7)    Documentation such as coverage maps showing the need for
a tower at the proposed site in order to close a gap in the applicant's
wireless telecommunications service, or a gap in the service provided by a
person intending to place telecommunications facilities on the tower;
               (8)    An inventory of existing towers, monopoles, antennas, or
sites approved for towers, monopoles or antennas, that are either within the
city or are sited in a location from which the applicant could provide service
within the city, including specific information about the location, height and
design of each tower, monopole or antenna and documentation showing that such
existing facilities are unavailable or unsuitable to meet the applicant's need
for a tower, monopole or antenna;
               (9)    Separation distance of the proposed tower, monopole or
antenna from the other towers, monopoles or antennas described in the inventory
of existing sites;
               (10)    A structural engineering report certifying the ability
of the tower, monopole or antenna to accommodate collocation of additional
wireless service provider facilities and a statement by the applicant regarding
accommodation for collocation of additional antennas for future users;
               (11)    The setback distance between the proposed tower,
monopole or antenna and the nearest platted residential property, and unplatted
residentially zoned properties;
               (12)    Proof that all necessary consents or approvals have been
applied for from appropriate federal, state or other local agencies;
               (13)    An application fee established from time to time by
resolution of the city council. In the event the city elects to consult with
its attorney or a radio frequency (RF) engineer in review of the application,
the applicant shall be required to fully reimburse the city for all such
expenses;
               (14)    Other information deemed by the zoning administrator to
be necessary.
   (O)   Permits Are Not Required For:
      1.   Adjustment or replacement of the elements of an antenna array
affixed to a tower, monopole or antenna, provided that replacement does not
reduce the safety factor.
      2.   Antennas, towers/monopoles erected temporarily for test purposes,
for emergency communication, or for broadcast remote pick up operations,
provided that all requirements of this section are met.
   (P)   Fees:
      1.   The permit fee payable shall be such as may be set by the city
council.
   (Q)   Construction Requirements:
      1.   All towers, monopoles, or antennas erected, constructed, or within
the city, and all wiring therefor, shall comply with the following
requirements:
            (a)    All applicable provisions of this code.
            (b)    Towers and monopoles shall be certified by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer to conform to the latest structural standards
and wind loading requirements of the Minnesota state building code, the
national electrical safety code and all federal communications commission and
local regulations.
            (c)    With the exception of necessary electric and telephone
service and connection lines approved by the issuing authority, no part of any
tower, monopole, or antenna nor any lines, cable, equipment or wires or braces
in connection with either shall at any time extend across or over any part of
the right of way, public street, highway, sidewalk, or property line.
            (d)    Towers and monopoles with associated antennas shall be
designed to conform to accepted electrical engineering methods and practices
and comply with the provisions of the national electrical code.
            (e)    All signal and remote control conductors of low energy
extending substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower,
monopole, or antenna and a structure, shall be at least eight feet (8') above
the ground at all points, unless buried underground.
            (f)    Every tower and monopole affixed to the ground shall be
protected to discourage climbing of the tower by unauthorized persons.
            (g)    All towers and monopoles shall be constructed to conform
with the requirements of the occupational safety and health administration.
            (h)    All towers and monopoles erected within the city must
conform to the applicable standards in this section.
   (R)   Existing Towers, Monopoles And Antennas:
      1.   Towers, monopoles and antennas in existence as of the date of
adoption hereof which do not conform to or comply with this section are subject
to the following provisions:
            (a)    Towers, monopoles or antennas may continue in use for the
purpose now used and as now existing, but may not be replaced or structurally
altered without complying in all respects with this section.
            (b)    If such towers, monopoles or antennas are hereafter damaged
or destroyed due to any reason or cause whatsoever, the tower, monopole or
antenna may be repaired and restored to its former use, location and physical
dimensions upon obtaining a building permit therefor, but without otherwise
complying with this section, provided, however, that if the cost of repairing
the tower, monopole or antenna would be ten percent (10%) or more of the cost
of a new tower, then the tower may not be repaired or restored except in full
compliance with this section.
   (S)   Other Attachments:
      1.   No tower, monopole or antenna shall have constructed thereon, or
attached thereto, in any way, any platform, catwalk, crow's nest, or like
structure, except during periods of construction or repair.
   (T)   Inspections:
      1.   All towers, monopoles or antennas are subject to inspection by the
city building inspection department to determine compliance with construction
standards. Any deviation from original construction standards for which the
permit was obtained shall constitute a violation of this section.
      2.   Notice of violation will be sent by registered mail to the owner and
the owner will have thirty (30) days from the date notification is issued to
make repairs. The owner will notify the building inspection department that
repairs have been made, and as soon as possible thereafter, another inspection
will be made and the owner notified of the results.
   (U)   Maintenance: Towers, monopoles, and antennas must be maintained in
accordance with the following provisions:
      1.   Tower/monopole owners must employ ordinary and reasonable care in
construction and use commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing
failures and accidents that are likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances
to the public.
      2.   Tower/monopole owners must install and maintain towers/monopoles,
telecommunications facilities, wires, cables, fixtures and other equipment in
compliance with the requirements of the national electrical safety code and all
federal communications commission, state, and local regulations, and in such a
manner that they will not interfere with the use of other property.
      3.   Towers, monopoles, and antenna support structures must be kept and
maintained in good condition, order, and repair.
      4.   Maintenance or construction on a tower, monopole or antenna support
structure must be performed by qualified maintenance and construction
personnel.
      5.   All tenants on towers/monopoles must comply with radio frequency
emissions standards of the federal communications commission.
      6.   If the use of a tower/monopole is discontinued by the tower/monopole
owner, the tower/monopole owner must provide written notice to the city of its
intent to discontinue use and the date when the use will be discontinued. (Ord.
009-599, 2-2-2009)
10-6-15: RECYCLING FACILITIES:
Recycling facilities, other than special recycling activity allowed by permit
only as described under section
 7-1-3 of this code, are conditional uses in the I-1 light industrial district
subject to the following:
   (A)   The facility must not abut a property planned, used or zoned for
residential use.
   (B)   The facility must meet the requirements for screening and landscaping
contained in sections
10-6-9 and
10-6-10 of this chapter.
   (C)   The facility must provide off street parking as outlined in the
industrial wholesaling land use category in section
10-6-4 of this chapter.
   (D)   The facility must not store recyclable materials outside of a
principal building or accessory building.
   (E)   The facility must restrict hours of operation to nine o'clock (9:00)
A.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) P.M. if located within five hundred feet (500') of
property planned, zoned, or used for residential use.
   (F)   The facility must not be used for dismantling, salvage or storage of
junked vehicles.
   (G)   The facility must follow all municipal, state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-6-16: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish provisions for
the opportunity as well as control of sexually oriented businesses within the
city of Farmington.
   (B)   General: Sexually oriented businesses as defined in this title shall
be subject to the following general provisions:
      1.   Activities classified as obscene as defined by MSA section 617.241
are prohibited.
      2.   Sexually oriented businesses, either principal or accessory, shall
be prohibited from locating in any building which is also used for residential
purposes.
      3.   Sexually oriented businesses, either principal or accessory, shall
be prohibited from locating in any building which is also licensed to sell
intoxicating liquor, nonintoxicating malt liquor or wine.
      4.   A sexually oriented business which does not qualify as a sexually
oriented business–accessory, shall be classified as a sexually oriented
business–principal.
   (C)   Sexually Oriented Business–Principal:
      1.   Sexually oriented business–principal shall be located at least three
hundred feet (300') from County State Aid Highways 31 and 50 as measured in a
straight line from the closest point of the property line of the building upon
which the sexually oriented business–principal is located, to the right of way.
      2.   Sexually oriented business–principal shall be located at least three
hundred feet (300'), as measured in a straight line from the closest point of
the property line of the building upon which the sexually oriented
business–principal is located, to the property line of:
            (a)    Residentially zoned property.
            (b)    Another sexually oriented business–principal.
            (c)    Schools.
            (d)    Churches.
            (e)    Daycares.
            (f)    Public library.
            (g)    Public parks/trails.
            (h)    On/off sale liquor establishments.
      3.   "Sexually oriented business–principal" activities, as defined by
this title, shall be classified as one use. No two (2) sexually oriented
business–principal shall be located in the same building or upon the same
property and each business shall be subject to subsections (C)1 and C(2) of
this section.
   (D)   Sexually Oriented Business–Accessory:
      1.   Sexually oriented business–accessory shall:
            (a)    Comprise no more than ten percent (10%) of the floor area of
the establishment in which it is located; provided that the maximum floor area
used for sexually oriented business–accessory may not exceed one thousand
(1,000) square feet.
            (b)    Comprise no more than twenty percent (20%) of the gross
receipts of the entire business operation.
            (c)    Not involve or include any activity except the sale or
rental of merchandise.
      2.   Sexually oriented business–accessory shall be restricted from and
prohibit access to minors by the physical separation of such items from areas
of general public access:
            (a)    Movie Rentals: Display areas shall be restricted from
general view and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which
is in clear view and under the control of the persons responsible for the
operation or shall be in catalogs under the direct control and distribution of
the operator.
            (b)    Magazines: Publications classified or qualifying as sexually
oriented shall not be physically accessible to minors and shall be covered with
a wrapper or other means to prevent display of any material other than the
publication title.
      3.   Sexually oriented business–accessory activities, including sale or
display of instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are used or designed for
use in connection with specified sexual activities, shall be prohibited at any
public show, movie, caravan, circus, carnival, theatrical or other performance
or exhibition presented to the general public where minors are admitted. (Ord.
002-469, 2-19-2002)
10-6-17: WETLAND STANDARDS:
   (A)   Definitions; Tables:
   WETLAND FUNCTIONS: The natural processes performed by wetlands, including
functions that are important in providing wildlife and fishery, habitat,
facilitating food chain production, providing habitat for nesting, rearing, and
resting sites for aquatic, terrestrial or avian species, maintaining the
availability and quality of water, such as purifying water, acting as a
recharge and discharge area for groundwater aquifers and moderating surface
water and stormwater flows, improving stormwater quality, providing aesthetic
benefits, as well as performing other functions, including, but not limited to,
those set out in U.S. army corps of engineers regulations at 33 CFR section
320.4(b)(2)(1988).
Note: In the definitions that follow, the methodology and criteria for
evaluation of floral diversity/integrity are based on those detailed in the
"Minnesota Routine Assessment Method For Evaluating Wetland Functions (Version
1.0)", Minnesota board of water and soil resources, September 1998; and
criteria for susceptibility to stormwater impacts are based on recommendations
in "Storm Water And Wetlands: Planning And Evaluation Guidelines For Addressing
Potential Impacts Of Urban Storm Water And Snow-Melt Runoff On Wetlands",
(Minnesota pollution control agency, June 1997).
The functional value for floral diversity/integrity determined from MNRAM is
based on dividing wetlands into wetland communities (i.e., wet meadow, shallow
marsh, floodplain forest, etc.) and providing a ranking, of exceptional
quality, high quality, moderate quality and low quality to all major wetland
communities within a wetland.
The major communities of a wetland also determine stormwater susceptibility.
"The Storm Water And Wetlands: Planning And Evaluation Guidelines For
Addressing Storm Water And Snowmelt Runoff Impacts To Wetlands", evaluates
wetland communities, and places wetland communities into the categories of
highly susceptible, moderately susceptible, slightly susceptible, and least
susceptible to stormwater and snowmelt runoff.
The wetland inventory conducted as part of this chapter placed the wetland
communities of the wetlands into the categories for floral diversity/integrity
and stormwater and snowmelt susceptibility. A functional value index, which is
based on a scale of 0.1 to 1.0 with 0.1 being the lowest ranking and 1.0 being
the highest ranking, was provided for each category as shown below:
 
Floral Diversity/Integrity Functional Value Index
Exceptional quality        1.0
High quality               0.75
Moderate quality           0.5
Low quality                0.1
 
 
Stormwater Susceptibility Functional Value Index
Highly susceptible        1.0
Moderately susceptible    0.75
Slightly susceptible      0.5
Least susceptible         0.1
 
Each wetland was given a ranking based on the functional value for each of the
major wetland communities or community within the wetlands. The overall ranking
for the wetland is based on a weighted average that incorporates the area of
the wetland community (%) and the functional value index (0.1 – 1.0) for the
wetland community within the wetland.
All wetlands located within a park or greenway corridor (as shown on the
wetland management plan map) will not have a wetland management classification
lower than manage 2. The overall wetland functional index range for floral
diversity/integrity and stormwater susceptibility and the associated wetland
management classifications are shown in table 1 of this section. Table 2 of
this section shows how final wetland management classifications were determined
for an example wetland.
Table 1. Overall wetland functional index range for floral diversity/integrity
and stormwater susceptibility and the associated wetland management
classification.
 
Floral Diversity/Integrity And Stormwater Wetland Management Classification
Susceptibility Functional Index (Range)
1.0 – 0.60                              Protect
0.59 – 0.5                              Manage 1
0.49 – 0.3                              Manage 2
Less than 0.3                             Utilize
 
Table 2. Example showing, how final wetland management classifications were
determined.
 
                                                  Stormwater     % Community
Wetland ID Community   Stormwater     % Community Susceptibility Stormwater
                       Susceptibility             Index          Susceptibility
                                                                 Value
AV-W7.2    Deep marsh  Slightly       0.3         0.5            0.15
AV-W7.2    Shallow     Moderately     0.6         0.75           0.45
           marsh
AV-W7.2    Reed canary Least          0.1         0.1            0.01
           monotype
                                               Total:         0.61
 
 
                         Floral                 Floral          % Community
Wetland ID Community     Diversity/ % Community Diversity/      Floral
                         Integrity              Integrity Index Diversity/
                                                                Integrity Value
AV-W7.2    Deep marsh    Moderate   0.3         0.75            0.225
AV-W7.2    Shallow marsh Moderate   0.6         0.75            0.45
AV-W7.2    Reed canary   Low        0.1         0.10            0.01
           monotype
                                             Total:          0.685
 
Stormwater susceptibility has a functional index of 0.61 and floral diversity/
integrity has a functional index of 0.685. They fall within the range of
protect (see table 1 of this section).
   WETLANDS, MANAGE 1: These wetlands have plant communities that are in a
largely unaltered state. The vegetative communities of these wetlands are
characterized by moderate floral diversion and are slightly to moderately
susceptible to stormwater and snowmelt impacts.
   WETLANDS, MANAGE 2: These wetlands have usually been altered by human
activities. These wetlands have low to medium floral diversity and wildlife
habitat components. These wetlands are slightly susceptible to impacts from
stormwater. In addition, if a wetland has characteristics of a utilized basin
but is located within a park or greenway corridor (as shown on the wetland and
water body classification map) it was put in this management classification.
   WETLANDS, PROTECT: These wetlands exist in a largely unaltered state and
have special and unusual qualities that call for a high level of protection.
These wetlands may provide habitat for rare, threatened and/or endangered plant
and animal species present; and/or have moderate to exceptional floral
diversity/integrity and moderate to high susceptibility to stormwater and
snowmelt; and/or are within the designated trout stream corridor identified on
the city's wetland and water body classification map.
   WETLANDS, UTILIZE: These wetlands have been significantly altered and
degraded through past disturbances. They may be isolated, with altered
hydrology from urban or agricultural land uses. These wetlands have low floral
diversity, and for the most part are not connected to other ecosystems. These
wetlands are the least susceptible to impacts from stormwater.
   (B)   General Provisions:
      1.   This section shall apply to any applicant for a subdivision
approval, or a grading, excavation, or mining permit to allow wetland
disturbing activities after June 7, 1999. Any drainage, filling, excavation, or
other alteration of a public waters wetland or wetland shall be conducted in
compliance with Minnesota Statutes Annotated, section 103G.245, the WCA
Minnesota rules 8420, and regulations adopted hereunder.
      2.   When any provision of any ordinance conflicts with this section,
that which provides more protection to the wetland or wetland buffer shall
apply unless specifically provided otherwise in this section; provided, such
exceptions shall not conflict with state regulations, such as the state shore
land program.
      3.   This section shall apply to all land containing wetlands and land
within the setback and buffer areas required by this chapter. Wetlands shall be
subject to the requirements established herein, as well as restrictions and
requirements established by other applicable federal, state, and city
ordinances and regulations. These wetland protection regulations shall not be
construed to allow anything, otherwise prohibited in the zoning district where
the wetland area is located.
      4.   A wetland is land that meets the definition of "wetlands" set forth
in this section. Wetlands have been identified and the wetland management
classification as established by the officially adopted city maps shall be
prima facie evidence of the location and classification of wetlands. The
official maps shall be developed and maintained by the community development
department. The presence or absence of a wetland on the official maps does not
represent a definitive determination as to whether a jurisdictional wetland is
or is not present. Wetlands that are identified during site specific
delineation activities but do not appear on the official wetland maps are still
subject to the provisions of this section. It will be the responsibility of an
applicant to delineate the exact wetland boundary. All delineations must be
reviewed by the Dakota County soil and water conservation district. The Dakota
County soil and water conservation district will make recommendations to the
city. The city council has delegated delineation review authority to its staff.
The city will classify wetlands based on the criteria discussed under
subsection (A) of this section. The applicant shall get final delineation
approval from the city.
      5.   Applicants seeking a change in wetland classification must submit to
the city a completed MNRAM version 1.0 form. The technical evaluation panel
will review the request for change. The technical evaluation panel will make a
recommendation to the city regarding the change in classification.
      6.   This subsection is applicable to wetlands that are determined to be
jurisdictional wetlands, based on delineation procedures of the wetland
conservation act.
      7.   This subsection establishes four (4) wetland classifications as
defined in subsection (A) of this section: protect, manage 1, manage 2, and
utilize.
   (C)   General Standards:
      1.   The following standards apply to all lands within and/or abutting a
wetland:
            (a)    Septic and soil absorption systems must be set back a
minimum of one hundred feet (100') from the city approved boundary of the
wetland.
            (b)    Building elevation standards shall conform with the
standards of the Farmington surface water management plan.
            (c)    Structures intended to provide access across a wetland shall
be prohibited unless a permit is obtained in conformance with state
regulations.
            (d)    The MPCA's best management practices shall be followed to
avoid erosion and sedimentation during construction processes.
   (D)   No Net Loss And Wetland Alteration:
      1.   It is the intent of this section to avoid the alteration and
destruction of wetlands. When wetlands or their buffer areas are altered or
destroyed, mitigation must be provided to recreate the functions and values of
the lost wetland and/or buffer area. To achieve no net loss of wetlands except
as authorized by a wetland alteration permit issued by the city, a person may
not drain, grade, fill, remove healthy native vegetation, or otherwise alter or
destroy a wetland of any size or type. Any alteration to a wetlands permitted
by a wetland alteration permit, must be fully mitigated so that there is no net
loss of wetlands.
      2.   Where it is found that avoidance of direct impact on a wetland is
not feasible, wetland replacement shall be done as per agency (VRWJPO, corps of
engineers, department of natural resources), and city (WCA) standards. No
permits will be granted until the WCA replacement plan is approved or exemption
certificate is obtained. Wetland replacement/mitigation siting must follow the
priority order below:
            (a)    Mitigation on site.
            (b)    Mitigation within the same minor subwatershed as established
by the Minnesota department of natural resources for the "1979 watershed
mapping project" pursuant to Minnesota laws, 1977, chapter 455, section 33,
subdivision 7, paragraph (a).
            (c)    Mitigation within the watershed.
            (d)    Mitigation within Dakota County.
            (e)    Transportation projects shall pursue wetland mitigation
projects to the extent practical using the criteria above. However, this does
not preclude the use of the BWSR replacement program.
      3.   Drainage, grading, filling, removal of healthy native vegetation or
otherwise altering or destroying a wetland of any size or type requires a
wetland alteration permit. Other activities in a wetland requiring a wetland
alteration permit include, but are not limited to:
            (a)    Construction of new streets and utilities.
            (b)    Installation of boardwalks.
      4.   When a wetland alteration permit is issued allowing filling in a
wetland, the following standards shall be followed:
            (a)    Filling must be consistent with the Farmington surface water
management plan.
            (b)    Filling in wetland areas will be required to be mitigated in
accordance with the requirements of this section and the wetland conservation
act.
      5.   When a wetland alteration permit is issued allowing dredging,
excavating or grading in a wetland the following standards shall be followed in
order to preserve WCA exemption or no loss determination in types 1, 2, 6, and
7 wetlands:
            (a)    The dredging will not have a net adverse effect on the
ecological and hydrological characteristics of the wetland.
            (b)    It shall be located as to minimize the impact on vegetation
and loss of wetland function (as determined by the VRWJPO or city). Exceptions
may be allowed in basins dominated by invasive exotic species such as reed
canary grass (Phalaris arundinacea).
            (c)    It shall not adversely change water flow.
            (d)    The size of the dredged area shall be limited to the minimum
required for the proposed action.
            (e)    Disposal of the dredged material is prohibited within the
wetland area unless it is part of an approved wetland replacement plan.
            (f)    Disposal of any dredged material shall include proper
erosion control and nutrient retention measures.
            (g)    Dredging in any wetland area is prohibited during waterfowl
breeding season or fish spawning season, unless it is determined by the city
that the wetland is not used for waterfowl breeding or fish spawning.
            (h)    Dredging in wetland areas will be required to be mitigated
in accordance with requirements of this section if the activity results in a
loss of functional wetland. Dredging to create water quality or habitat
improvements may be allowed by the city where reasonable alternatives are not
available or where the wetland is of low quality and designated for this
purpose by the Farmington surface water management plan.
      6.   When a wetland alteration permit is issued allowing stormwater
runoff to discharge directly into a wetland, the permit will include
requirements established by the Farmington surface water management plan. These
requirements establish a maximum high water level bounce and allowable
phosphorus loadings based on the city's wetland classification system. A
protect or manage 1 public waters wetland or wetland may not be used for
stormwater management and treatment unless the use will not adversely affect
the function and public value of the wetland and other alternatives do not
exist.
      7.   An applicant for a wetland alteration permit shall adhere to the
following principles in descending order of priority:
            (a)    Avoid the direct or indirect impact of the activity that may
destroy or diminish the wetland;
            (b)    Minimize the impact by limiting the degree or magnitude of
the wetland activity and its implementation;
            (c)    Rectify the impact by repairing, rehabilitating, or
restoring the affected wetland function and its implementation;
            (d)    Reduce or eliminate the impact over time by preservation and
maintenance operations during the life of the activity; and
            (e)    Replacing unavoidable impacts to the wetlands by restoring
or creating substitute wetland areas having equal or greater public value as
set forth in Minnesota rules 8420.0530 to 8420.0630.
      8.   A wetland alteration permit shall not be issued unless the proposed
development complies, within the provisions of the mitigation subsection of
this section, as well as the standards, intent, and purpose of this section.
   (E)   Wetland Buffer Areas:
      1.   For lots of record created after June 7, 1999 (date of original
wetlands ordinance adoption), a buffer area shall be maintained abutting all
wetlands. The following requirements shall be met concerning the wetland
buffers:
            (a)    Where a buffer is required, the city shall require the
protection of the buffer under a conservation easement, or include the buffer
in a dedicated outlot as part of platting and subdivision approval, except
where the buffer is located in a public transportation right of way.
            (b)    A wetland line and wetland buffer delineation line must be
shown on the plan submitted to the city.
            (c)    A silt fence shall be erected at the wetland buffer line
during construction and shall not be removed until sod is installed on all lots
adjacent to the wetland buffer.
            (d)    Permanent monumentation shall be erected at the time of the
installation of the silt fence as required in subsection (E)5 of this section.
            (e)    Building permits shall not be issued until silt fence and
monumentation are installed and disturbed areas of buffer are seeded, mulched,
and disked.
      2.   Where acceptable natural vegetation exists in buffer areas, the
retention of such vegetation in an undisturbed state is required unless
approval to replace such vegetation is received. A buffer has acceptable
vegetation if it:
            (a)    Has a continuous, dense layer of perennial grasses that has
been uncultivated or unbroken for at least five (5) consecutive years; or
            (b)    Has an overstory of trees and/or shrubs that has been
uncultivated or unbroken for at least five (5) consecutive years; or
            (c)    Contains a mixture of the plant communities in subsections
(E)2(a) and (E)2(b) of this section that has been uncultivated or unbroken for
at least five (5) years.
      3.   Buffers shall be staked and protected in the field prior to
construction unless the vegetation and the condition of the buffer are
considered inadequate. Existing conditions vegetation will be considered
unacceptable if:
            (a)    Topography or sparse vegetation tends to channelize the flow
of surface water.
            (b)    Some other reason the vegetation is unlikely to retain
nutrients and sediment.
      4.   Where buffer vegetation and conditions are unacceptable, or have
been cultivated or otherwise disturbed within ten (10) years of the permit
application, or where approval has been obtained to replant, buffers shall be
replanted and maintained according to the following standards:
            (a)    Buffers shall be planted with a native seed mix approved by
MnDOT, BWSR, NRCS or the Dakota SWCD, with the exception of a onetime planting
with an annual nurse or cover crop. Plantings of native forbs and grasses may
be substituted for seeding. All substitutions must be approved by the city.
Groupings/clusters of native trees and shrubs, of species and at densities
appropriate to site conditions, shall also be planted throughout the buffer
area.
            (b)    The seed mix and planting shall be broadcast/installed
according to MnDOT, BWSR, NRCS or Dakota SWCD specifications. The selected seed
mixes and plantings for permanent cover shall be appropriate for the soil site
conditions and free of invasive species.
            (c)    Buffer vegetation (both natural and created) shall be
protected by erosion and sediment control measures during construction.
            (d)    During the first five (5) full growing seasons, except where
the city has determined vegetation establishment is acceptable, the owner or
applicant must replant buffer vegetation where the vegetative cover is less
than ninety percent (90%). The owner or applicant must assure reseeding or
replanting if the buffer changes at any time through human intervention or
activities.
            (e)    No fertilizer shall be used in establishing new buffer
areas.
            (f)    Applicants may obtain from the city a set of standard
seeding and planting specifications for buffer areas, which meet all the city
requirements.
      5.   Buffer areas shall be identified by permanent monumentation
acceptable to the city at every other lot corner or every three hundred feet
(300'), whichever is less, and at all angle points of lot.
      6.   Alterations, including building, storage, paving, routine mowing,
burning, plowing, introduction of noxious vegetation, cutting, dredging,
filling, mining, dumping, grazing livestock, agricultural production, yard
waste disposal, or fertilizer application are prohibited within any buffer.
Periodic mowing or burning, or the use of fertilizers and pesticides for the
purpose of managing and maintaining native vegetation is allowed. Noxious weeds
may be removed and mechanical or spot herbicide treatments may be used to
control noxious weeds, but aerial or broadcast spraying is not acceptable.
Prohibited alterations would not include plantings that enhance the natural
vegetation or selective clearing or pruning of trees or vegetation that are
dead, diseased or pose similar hazards, or as otherwise clarified in this
section.
      7.   Where acceptable to adjacent properties, owners are encouraged to
leave dead trees and branches in the buffer area, because they are part of the
native natural environment and provide necessary habitat to many birds and
native wildlife.
      8.   The following activities shall be permitted within any buffer, and
shall not constitute prohibited alterations:
            (a)    The following activities are allowed within both the minimum
and average buffer width areas:
               (1)    Use and maintenance of an unimproved access strip through
the buffer, not more than ten feet (10') in width, for recreational access to
the major waterway or wetland and the exercise of riparian rights.
               (2)    Structures that exist when the buffer is created.
               (3)    Placement, maintenance, repair, or replacement of public
roads and utility and drainage systems that exist on creation of the buffer or
are required to comply with any subdivision approval or building permit
obtained from the municipality or county, so long as any adverse impacts of
public road, utility, or drainage systems on the function of the buffer have
been avoided or minimized to the extent practical.
               (4)    Clearing, grading, and seeding is allowed if part of an
approved wetland replacement plan, or approved stream restoration plan.
               (5)    Construction of a multipurpose trail, including
boardwalks and pedestrian bridges, provided it is constructed to minimize
erosion and new impervious surface, and has an undisturbed area of vegetative
buffer at least ten feet (10') in width between the trail and the wetland or
public waters wetland edge, or the bank of the major waterway; or where needed
to cross the major waterway, the minimum impact alignment is used.
               (6)    The construction of underground utilities such as water,
stormwater, and sanitary sewers and pipelines provided the minimum impact
alignment is used, the area is stabilized in accordance with subsection (E)4 of
this section, and setbacks established in subsection
10-5-25(F)2(b)(4) of this title are met.
            (b)    The following activities are allowed within those portions
of the average buffer width that exceed the minimum buffer width:
               (1)    Stormwater management facilities, provided the land areas
are stabilized in accordance with subsection (E)4 of this section, and
alterations prohibited in subsection (E)6 of this section are upheld.
               (2)    The area of shallow vegetated infiltration and
biofiltration facilities, and water quality ponds not to exceed fifty percent
(50%) of the pond area, adjacent to wetlands and major waterways may be
included in buffer averaging provided the facilities do not encroach into the
minimum buffer width, and the land areas are stabilized in accordance with
subsection (E)4 of this section, and alterations prohibited in subsection (E)6
of this section are upheld.
      9.   All buffer areas are measured from the wetland edge as marked in the
field.
      10.   The following buffer area sizes are minimum requirements:
 
Wetland Type           Protect Manage 1 Manage 2 Utilize
Average buffer width   75 feet 50 feet  30 feet  25 feet
                      100 feet "protect" wetlands in the designated trout
                       stream corridor
Minimum buffer         75 feet 30 feet  25 feet  16.5 feet
Structure setback from 10 feet 10 feet  10 feet  0 feet
outer edge of buffer
 
      11.   Any wetland restored, relocated, replaced or enhanced because of
wetland alterations should have at least the minimum buffer area required for
the class of the wetland involved.
      12.   The city may recommend buffer area averaging in instances where it
will provide resource protection to wetland or to valuable adjacent upland
habitat, or allow for reasonable use of property as described in subsection (B)
of this section, provided that the total buffer area on site contained in the
buffer remains the same.
      13.   If the area of the buffer has a preconstruction slope of twelve
percent (12%) or greater, the buffer shall be at the maximum width for the
applicant's wetland classification. The use of a meandering buffer area to
maintain a natural appearance is encouraged but not required in areas of flat
topography.
   (F)   Wetland And Buffer Area Mitigation: Where wetland alteration is
approved and mitigation is required, mitigation must result in equal or
improved wetland function and value. Mitigation plans must address water
quality improvement, and maintenance of preexisting hydrological balance and
wildlife habitat. The wetland function and value will include improvement of
water quality, maintaining hydrological balance, and provision of wildlife
habitat. Mitigation will be performed at ratios required by the wetland
conservation act to achieve replacement of the wetland function and value.
The following criteria shall be required for wetland or buffer area mitigation:
      1.   Wetland mitigation will be performed at a ratio required by the
wetland conservation act. Buffers will be required to be replaced on the fill
slope. When a wetland is completely filled, the buffer area requirement
associated with the classification of the wetland that was filled will be
required for the replacement wetlands unless replacement is occurring adjacent
to a wetland with a higher classification. In this case, the buffer area
requirement for the higher wetland classification will apply.
      2.   Mitigation should always result in equal or improved wetland
function and value. The wetland function and value will include improvement of
water quality, maintaining hydrological balance, and provision of wildlife
habitat.
      3.   Mitigation shall provide a buffer area as set forth in this section.
      4.   Mitigation shall maintain or enhance the wetland hydrological
balance through the following:
            (a)    Restoration of partially drained wetlands.
            (b)    Creation of new wetlands.
            (c)    Restoration of buffer area functions.
      5.   Mitigation shall provide for pretreatment of water prior to entry to
the wetland to improve water quality if required by the Farmington surface
water management plan.
      6.   Mitigation involving the buffer area shall provide landscaping for
nesting, and food for wildlife habitat. The buffer area landscape shall provide
for wildlife cover and utilize a diversity of native flora (i.e., trees,
shrubs, grasses, herbaceous plants) to encourage wildlife diversity.
      7.   Wetland and buffer area mitigation should be undertaken on site. If
this is not feasible, mitigation should occur locally within the subwatershed.
If this is not possible, mitigation should occur outside the subwatershed,
elsewhere in the city. If mitigation cannot be accomplished on site, or if the
city deems it necessary to perform mitigation off site, the applicant shall be
responsible for contributing into the city's wetland restoration fund
(described in the Farmington surface water management plan). The contribution
will be based on the city's cost to create the new wetland. This includes, but
is not limited to, the cost of land, design, engineering, legal, and
construction activities needed to create the new wetland. The mitigation
performed off site shall meet the requirements of this section.
      8.   Wetland and buffer area plantings that are completed for mitigation
shall meet the standards for plantings specified in subsection (E) of this
section. (Ord. 010-629, 10-18-2010)
10-6-18: SHORELAND MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS:
   (A)   Purpose and Authorization:
      1.   Purpose: The uncontrolled use of shorelands affects the public
health, safety and general welfare by contributing to the pollution of public
waters, negative impacts on fish and wildlife habitat, and by impairing the
local tax base. Therefore, it is in the best interests of the public health,
safety and welfare to provide for the wise subdivision, use and development of
shorelands of public waters. The legislature of Minnesota has delegated
responsibility to local governments of the state to regulate the subdivision,
use and development of the shorelands of public waters and thus preserve and
enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve the economic and natural
environmental values of shorelands, and provide for the wise use of waters and
related resources. The city of Farmington hereby recognizes this
responsibility.
      2.   Statutory Authorization: This section is adopted pursuant to the
authorization and policies contained in Minnesota Statutes Annotated, chapter
103F, Minnesota regulations, parts 6120.2500–6120.3900, and the planning and
zoning enabling legislation in Minnesota Statutes Annotated, chapter 462.
   (B)   General Provisions:
      1.   Jurisdiction: The provisions of this section shall apply to the
shoreland of the public water bodies as identified in subsection (D) of this
section. Pursuant to Minnesota regulations, parts 6120.2500–6120.3900, flowage
less than ten (10) acres in size is exempt from the requirements under this
section.
      2.   Application: This section shall apply to any applicant for a
subdivision approval, or permit for grading, excavation, or mining in shoreland
areas issued after July 15, 2002. This section applies to all land located
within the defined shoreland.
      3.   Abrogation and Greater Restriction: It is not intended by this
section to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this section imposes greater restrictions,
the provisions of this section shall prevail. All other sections of this code
inconsistent with this section are hereby repealed to the extent of the
inconsistency only.
      4.   Compliance: The use of any shoreland of public waters; the size and
shape of lots; the use, size, type and location of structures on lots; the
installation and maintenance of water supply and waste treatment systems, the
grading and filling of any shoreland area; the cutting of shoreland vegetation;
and the subdivision of land shall be in full compliance with the terms of this
section and other applicable regulations.
      5.   Interpretation: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this section shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall
be liberally construed in favor of the city and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
      6.   Severability: If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
section is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this section shall not be affected thereby.
   (C)   Administration:
      1.   Variances: The planning commission shall hear and decide requests
for variances in accordance with the rules that it has adopted for the conduct
of business. When a variance is approved after the Department of Natural
Resources has formally recommended denial in the hearing record, the
notification of the approved variance required in subsection (C)2 of this
section shall also include the summary of the public record/testimony and the
findings of fact and conclusions that support the issuance of the variance.
      2.   Notifications to the Department of Natural Resources: Copies of all
notices of any public hearings to consider variances, amendments, or
conditional uses under local shoreland management controls must be sent to the
commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources or the commissioner's
designated representative and postmarked at least ten (10) days before the
hearings. Notices of hearings to consider proposed subdivisions/plats must
include copies of the subdivision/plat. A copy of approved amendments and
subdivisions/plats, and final decisions granting variances or conditional uses
under local shoreland management controls must be sent to the commissioner of
the Department of Natural Resources or the commissioner's designated
representative and postmarked within ten (10) days of final action.
      3.   Mandatory EAW: An Environmental Assessment Worksheet consistent with
Minnesota Rules, Chapter 4410 must be prepared for projects meeting the
thresholds of Minnesota Rules, part 4410.4300, Subparts 19a, 20a, 25, 27, 28,
29, and 36a.
   (D)   Shoreland Classification System and Land Uses:
      1.   Shoreland Classification System: The public waters of the city of
Farmington have been classified below consistent with the criteria found in
Minnesota regulations, part 6120.3300, and the protected waters inventory map
for Dakota County, Minnesota.
(a) Agricultural Rivers       Location
                             
   Vermillion River          T. 113N, R. 20W, Section 1 and
                            T. 114 N, R. 19W, Sections 29, 30, and 31
                            And R. 20W, Section 36
(b) Tributary Rivers/Streams*  
   North Creek               T. 114N, R. 20W, Sections 3, 4, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12,
                              13 and
                            T. 114N, R. 19W, Sections 18, 19, and 30
   Middle Creek              T. 114N, R. 19W, Section 30 and
                            T. 114N, R. 20 W, Sections 15, 16, 17, 21, 22, 25
                              and 26
   South Creek               T. 114N, R.20W, Sections 19, 20, 29, 32, 33, 34,
                              35, and 36
    *All protected watercourses in the city of Farmington shown on the
   protected waters inventory map for Dakota County, a copy of which is hereby
    adopted by reference, not given a classification above shall be considered
    "tributary".
 
   The shoreland area for these water bodies shall be shown on the official
zoning map (or official zoning overlay map).
      2.   Land Uses for Rivers and Streams Shoreland:
         (a)   The land uses for the given classifications of water bodies
shall comply with the table below as well as the uses underlying zoning
district; the more restrictive shall apply.
 
P = Permitted use
C = Conditional use
N = Prohibited use
 Agricultural Tributary
                                                       Agricultural Tributary
Single-unit detached dwelling                          P            P
Twin home, two-unit, and three- to four-unit dwellings P            P
Residential PUD                                        C            C
Commercial                                             C            C
Commercial PUD*                                        C            C
Solar Power Facilities (principal use)                 C            C
Parks/historic sites                                   P            P
Public/Semipublic                                      C            C
Industrial                                             N            C
Agricultural: cropland and pasture                     P            P
Agricultural feedlots: New                             N            N
Agricultural feedlots: Expansion or resumption of      C            C
existing
Forest management                                      P            P
Extractive use                                         C            C
 
*Limited expansion of a commercial planned unit development involving up to 6
additional dwelling units or sites may be allowed as a permitted use provided
the provisions of the city's PUD requirements are satisfied.
 
         (b)   Interpretation:
            (1)   When an interpretation question arises about whether a
specific land use fits within a give “use” category, the Planning Commission
shall decide the issue.
            (2)   When a question arises as to whether a land use district’s
boundaries are property delineated on the official zoning map, this decision
shall be made by the city council.
   (E)   Zoning and Water Supply/Sanitary Provisions:
      1.   Lot Area And Width Standards:
         (a)   Rivers/Stream Lot Width Standards:
            (1)   There is no minimum lot size requirement for rivers and
streams. The lot width standards (in feet) for single, duplex, triplex, and
quad residential lots created after the date of enactment of this section for
the river and stream classifications are the following:
 
Agricultural Tributary
150          75
225          115
300          150
375          190
 
            (2)   Residential subdivisions with dwelling unit densities
exceeding those in the table above can only be allowed if designed and approved
as residential planned unit developments.
         (b)   Special Provisions for Planned Unit Developments (PUDs);
            (1)   Processing of PUDs: Planned unit developments in the
Shoreland District must be processed as a conditional use and comply with the
provisions of this section in addition to those standards outlined in Section
10-5-19. When there is a conflict in requirements, the more stringent of the
req   uirements shall be applied.
            (2)   Density Determination: Proposed new or expansions to existing
planned unit developments in the Shoreland District must be evaluated using the
following procedures:
               A.   Identify Density Analysis Tiers. Divide the project parcel
into tiers by drawing one of more lines parallel to the ordinary high water
level at intervals of 300 feet, proceeding landward.
               B.   Calculate Suitable Area for Development. Calculate the
suitable area within each tier by excluding all wetlands, bluffs, or land below
the ordinary high water level of public waters.
               C.   Determine Base Density.
                  i.   For residential PUDs. divide the tier width by the
minimum single residential lot width.
                  ii.   Lot width standards must be met at both the ordinary
high water level and at the building line.
                  iii.   These standards assume that publicly owned sewer
system service is available to the property.
               D.   Determine if the Site can Accommodate Increased Density:
Increases to the dwelling unit or dwelling site base densities are allowed up
to the maximum density seen in the table below if all design criteria are met
as well as the following standards are met:
                  i.   Structure setbacks from the ordinary high water level
are increased to at least fifty percent (50%) greater than the minimum setback:
or
                  ii.   The impact on the waterbody is reduced an equivalent
amount through vegetative management, topography, or additional acceptable
means and the setback is at least twenty five percent (25%) greater than the
minimum setback.
 
Shoreland Tier Maximum Density Increase within each Tier (percent)
1st            50
2nd            100
3rd            200
4th            200
5th            200
 
            (3)   Design Criteria. All PUDs in the Shoreland must meet the
following design criteria.
               A.   General Design Standards
                  i.   All residential planned unit developments must contain
at least five (5) dwelling units or sites.
                  ii.   Dwelling units or dwelling sites must be clustered into
one or more groups and located on suitable areas of the development.
                  iii.   Shore recreation facilities must be centralized and
located in areas suitable for them based on a suitability analysis. The number
of spaces provided for continuous beaching, mooring, or docking of watercraft
must not exceed one for each allowable dwelling unit or site in the first tier
(notwithstanding existing mooring sites in an existing commercially used
harbor). Launching ramp facilities, including a small dock for loading and
unloading equipment. may be provided for use by occupants of dwelling units or
sites located in other tiers.
                  iv.   Structures, parking areas, and other facilities must be
treated to reduce visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent
shorelands by vegetation, topography, increased setbacks, color, or other means
acceptable to the local unit of government, assuming summer, leaf-on
conditions. Vegetative and topographic screening must be preserved, if
existing, or may be required to be provided.
                  v.   Accessory structures and facilities, except water
oriented accessory structures, must meet the required structure setback and
must be centralized.
               B.   Open Space Requirements:
                  i.   Open space must constitute at least fifty percent (50%)
of the total project area and must include:
                     (1)   Areas with physical characteristics unsuitable for
development in their natural state:
                     (2)   Areas containing significant historic sites or
unplatted cemeteries.
                  ii.   Open space may include:
                     (1)   Outdoor recreational facilities for use by owners of
dwelling units or sites, by guests staving in commercial dwelling units or
sites, and by the general public;
                     (2)   Non-public water wetlands.
                  iii.   Open space shall not include:
                     (1)   Dwelling sites or lots, unless owned in common by an
owners association;
                     (2)   Dwelling units or structures, except water-oriented
accessory structures or facilities;
                     (3)   Road rights-of-way or land covered by road surfaces
and parking areas;
                     (4)   Land below the OHWL of public waters; and
                     (5)   Commercial facilities or uses.
      2.   Placement, Design and Height of Structures:
         (a)   Placement of Structures on Lots:
            (1)   When more than one setback applies to a site, structures and
facilities must be located to meet all setbacks.
            (2)   Where structures exist on the adjoining lots on both sides of
a proposed building site, structure setbacks may be altered without a variance
to conform to the adjoining setbacks from the ordinary high water level,
provided the proposed building site is not located in a shoreline buffer area.
            (3)   Structures and onsite sewage treatment systems shall be set
back (in feet) from the ordinary high water level as follows:
 
Water Classification   Structures Unsewered Sewered Sewage Treatment Systems
Agricultural river     100                  100     100
Tributary river/stream 100                  50      75
 
      Where averaging is allowed, structure setbacks cannot be less than fifty
percent (50%) of the minimum setback.
         (b)   Design Criteria for Structures:
            (1)   Water Oriented Accessory Structures: Each lot may have one
water oriented accessory structure not meeting the normal structure setback
requirements of this section if this water oriented accessory structure
complies with the following provisions:
               A.   The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet (10') in
height, exclusive of safety rails, and cannot occupy an area greater than two
hundred fifty (250) square feet. Detached decks must not exceed eight feet (8')
above grade at any point.
               B.   The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary
high water level must be at least ten feet (10').
               C.   The structure or facility must be treated to reduce
visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation,
topography, increased setbacks, or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
               D.   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails but must
not be enclosed or used as a storage area.
               E.   The structure or facility must not be designed or used for
human habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage treatment
facilities.
            (2)   High Water Elevations: Structures must be placed in
accordance with any floodplain regulations applicable to the site.
            (3)   Structures Without Water Oriented Needs: Structures without
water oriented needs must be placed on nonriparian lots, or be double the
structure setback, or screened from view from public waters by vegetation,
topography, or both.
      3.   Shoreland Buffer Areas:
         (a)   Application: For lots of record created after July 15, 2002, a
buffer area shall be maintained abutting all rivers and streams. Buffer
vegetation shall be established and maintained in accordance with the
requirements that follow.
         (b)   Buffer Area Vegetation Requirements: Where acceptable natural
vegetation exists in buffer areas, the retention of such vegetation in an
undisturbed state is required unless approval to replace such vegetation is
received. A buffer has acceptable vegetation if it:
            (1)   Has a continuous, dense layer of perennial grasses that has
been uncultivated or unbroken for at least five (5) consecutive years; or
            (2)   Has an overstory of trees and/or shrubs that has been
uncultivated or unbroken for at least five (5) consecutive years; or
            (3)   Contains a mixture of the plant communities in subsections
(E)3(b)(1) and (E)3(b)(2) of this section that has been uncultivated or
unbroken for at least five (5) years.
         (c)   Maintenance of Buffer Areas: Buffers shall be staked and
protected in the field prior to construction unless the vegetation and the
condition of the buffer are considered inadequate. Existing conditions
vegetation will be considered unacceptable if:
            (1)   Topography or sparse vegetation tends to channelize the flow
of surface water.
            (2)   Some other reason the vegetation is unlikely to retain
nutrients and sediment.
         (d)   Requirements for Replanting: Where buffer vegetation and
conditions are unacceptable, or have been cultivated or otherwise disturbed
within ten (10) years of the permit application, or where approval has been
obtained to replant, buffers shall be replanted and maintained according to the
following standards:
            (1)   Buffers shall be planted with a native seed mix approved by
MnDOT, BWSR, NRCS or the Dakota SWCD, with the exception of a onetime planting
with an annual nurse or cover crop. Plantings of native forbs and grasses may
be substituted for seeding. All substitutions must be approved by the city.
Groupings/clusters of native trees and shrubs, of species and at densities
appropriate to site conditions, shall also be planted throughout the buffer
area.
            (2)   The seed mix and planting shall be broadcast/installed
according to MnDOT, BWSR, NRCS or Dakota SWCD specifications. The selected seed
mixes and plantings for permanent cover shall be appropriate for the soil site
conditions and free of invasive species.
            (3)   Buffer vegetation (both natural and created) shall be
protected by erosion and sediment control measures during construction.
            (4)   During the first five (5) full growing seasons, except where
the city has determined vegetation establishment is acceptable, the owner or
applicant must replant buffer vegetation where the vegetative cover is less
than ninety percent (90%). The owner or applicant must assure reseeding or
replanting if the buffer changes at any time through human intervention or
activities.
            (5)   No fertilizer shall be used in establishing new buffer areas.
            (6)   Applicants may obtain from the city a set of standard seeding
and planting specifications for buffer areas, which meet all the city
requirements.
         (e)   Buffer Identification: Buffer areas shall be identified by
permanent monumentation acceptable to the city. In residential subdivisions, a
monument is required for each lot. In other situations, a monument is required
for each three hundred feet (300') of wetland edge.
         (f)   Vegetation Clearing or Removal: The clearing and removal of
vegetation in the buffer area is prohibited, except for selective clearing and
pruning of individual trees that are dead, diseased, noxious weeds, or hazards.
Owners are encouraged to leave dead trees and branches in the buffer area,
because they are part of the native natural environment and provide necessary
habitat to many birds and native wildlife.
         (g)   Dumping in Buffer Areas: Dumping yard waste in buffer areas,
including leaves and grass clippings, is prohibited by this section.
         (h)   Determination of Buffer Areas: All buffer areas are measured
from the ordinary high water level as marked in the field.
         (i)   Minimum Buffer Areas: Buffers shall be established adjacent to
major waterways as shown and classified on map 1 - Vermillion River watershed
attached to the VRWJPO standards, and as described for the various
classifications below.
            (1)   Conservation corridor; lower reach (Vermillion River
downstream of Biscayne Avenue): One hundred fifty foot (150') average, one
hundred foot (100') minimum measured from the edge of the meander belt of the
river.
            (2)   Conservation corridor; upper reach (Vermillion River upstream
of Biscayne Avenue and South Branch Vermillion River): One hundred fifty foot
(150') average, one hundred foot (100') minimum measured from the edge of the
meander belt of the river.
            (3)   Aquatic corridor; principal connector: Required buffer width
one hundred foot (100') average, sixty five foot (65') minimum measured from
the edge of the meander belt of the river.
            (4)   Aquatic corridor; principal connector with trout stream
designation: One hundred foot (100'), no averaging, as required by the NPDES
general construction permit.
            (5)   Aquatic corridor; tributary connector: Fifty foot (50')
average, thirty five foot (35') minimum, plus two feet (2') for every one
percent (1%) of slope measured from the edge of the meander belt of the
tributary.
            (6)   Water quality corridor: Thirty foot (30') average, twenty
foot (20') minimum where there is a flow path for concentrated surface runoff
measured from the centerline of the flow path.
         (j)   Buffer Averaging: The city may recommend buffer averaging for
buffers in areas designated manage 1, manage 2 or greenway corridors in
instances where it will provide resource protection to a valuable adjacent
upland habitat, or allow for reasonable use of property, provided that the
total buffer area on site contained in the buffer area remains the same. No
buffer averaging is allowed for trout stream buffers.
         (k)   Public Trail Exemption: Public trails that are routed through
stream buffers for specific interpretive purposes shall be exempted from this
requirement.
         (l)   Maximum Width: If the area of the buffer has a preconstruction
slope of twelve percent (12%) or greater, the buffer shall be at the maximum
width for the applicant's stream classification. The use of a meandering buffer
area to maintain a natural appearance is encouraged, but not required in areas
of flat topography.
         (m)   Stream Buffer Area Mitigation: Where alteration of a stream
buffer area is approved and mitigation is required, mitigation must result in
equal or improved buffer function and value. Mitigation plans must address
water quality protection and wildlife habitat. The following criteria shall be
required for stream buffer area mitigation:
            (1)   Buffer Replacement: Buffers must be required at a one to one
(1:1) ratio. The buffer requirement associated with the stream classification
will be required for the replacement buffer, unless replacement is occurring
adjacent to a stream with a higher classification. In this case, the buffer
area requirement for the higher stream classification will apply.
            (2)   Mitigation Goals: Mitigation shall be equal to or shall
improve buffer function and value. The function and value will include
protection of water quality and provision of wildlife habitat.
            (3)   Wildlife Diversity: Mitigation involving the buffer area
shall provide landscaping for nesting, food for wildlife, wildlife cover, and
utilize a diversity of native flora (trees, shrubs, grasses, herbaceous plants)
to encourage wildlife diversity.
            (4)   Trout Streams: Mitigation in buffer areas along trout streams
shall require landscaping that protects trout habitat, such as trees, shrubs,
and tall native grasses that shade the stream.
            (5)   Area of Mitigation: Stream buffer mitigation should be
undertaken on site. If this is not feasible, mitigation should occur locally
within the subwatershed. If this is not possible, mitigation should occur
outside the subwatershed, elsewhere in the city.
            (6)   Buffer Plantings: Stream buffer area plantings that are
completed for mitigation shall meet the standards for plantings specified in
subsection (E)4 of this section.
      4.   Shoreland Alterations: Alterations of vegetation and topography will
be regulated to prevent erosion into public waters, fix nutrients, preserve
shoreland aesthetics, preserve historic values, prevent bank slumping, and
protect fish and wildlife habitat.
         (a)   Vegetation Alteration:
            (1)   Standards: Removal or alteration of vegetation, except of
agricultural uses as regulated in subsection (E)7 of this section is allowed
subject to the following standards:
               A.   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore zone and on
steep slopes is prohibited.
               B.   In shore impact zones and on steep slopes, limited clearing
of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning, and trimming of trees is allowed to
provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling site and to accommodate
the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access paths, livestock
watering areas, beach and watercraft access areas, and permitted water oriented
accessory structures or facilities, provided that:
                  i.   The screening of structures, vehicles, or other
facilities as viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is
not substantially reduced;
                  ii.   Existing shading of water surfaces is preserved along
rivers; and
                  iii.   The above provisions are not applicable to the removal
of trees, limbs, or branches that are dead, diseased, or pose safety hazards.
            (2)   Exemption: Vegetation alteration necessary for the
construction of structures and sewage treatment systems and the construction of
roads and parking areas regulated by subsection (E)5 of this section are exempt
from this subsection.
         (b)   Topographic Alterations/Grading and Filling:
            (1)   Grading and filling and excavations necessary for the
construction of structures, sewage treatment systems, and driveways under
validly issued construction permits for these facilities do not require the
issuance of a separate grading and filling permit. However, the grading and
filling standards in this section must be incorporated into the issuance of
permits for construction of structures, sewage treatment systems, and
driveways.
            (2)   Public roads and parking areas are regulated by subsection
(E)5 of this section.
            (3)   Notwithstanding subsections (E)4(b)(1) and (E)4(b)(2) of this
section, a grading and filling permit will be required for:
               A.   The movement of more than ten (10) cubic yards of material
on steep slopes or within shore or bluff impact zones; and
               B.   The movement of more than fifty (50) cubic yards of
material outside of steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones.
            Excavations where the intended purpose is connection to a public
water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons, and harbors, must be controlled by
local shoreland controls. Permission for excavations may be given only after
the commissioner has approved the proposed connection to public waters.
            (4)   Conditions for Approval: The following considerations and
conditions must be adhered to during the issuance of construction permits,
grading and filling permits, conditional use permits, variances and subdivision
approvals:
               A.   Grading or filling in any type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8
wetland must be evaluated to determine how extensively the proposed activity
would affect the following functional qualities of the wetland*:
                  i.   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
                  ii.   Storage of surface runoff to prevent or reduce flood
damage;
                  iii.   Fish and wildlife habitat;
                  iv.   Recreational use;
                  v.   Shoreline or bank stabilization; and
                  vi.   Noteworthiness, including special qualities such as
historic significance, critical habitat for endangered plants and animals, or
others.
               *This evaluation must also include a determination of whether
the wetland alteration being proposed requires permits, reviews, or approvals
by other local, state, or federal agencies such as a watershed district, the
Minnesota department of natural resources, or the United States army corps of
engineers. The applicant will be so advised.
               B.   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that
ensures only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest
time possible;
               C.   Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary,
for temporary bare soil coverage, and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible;
               D.   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments
before they reach any surface water feature must be used;
               E.   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion
control standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the
local soil and water conservation districts and the United States soil
conservation service;
               F.   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner
that creates an unstable slope;
               G.   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes
must be reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and
must not create finished slopes of thirty percent (30%) or greater;
               H.   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff
impact zones;
               I.   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of
public waters must first be authorized by the commissioner under Minnesota
Statutes Annotated, section 105.42;
               J.   Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties;
               K.   Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated
grading of the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the
finished slope does not exceed three feet (3') horizontal to one foot (1')
vertical, the landward extent of the riprap is within ten feet (10') of the
ordinary high water level, and the height of the riprap above the ordinary high
water level does not exceed three feet (3').
      5.   Placement of Roads, Driveways, and Parking Areas:
         (a)   Design Requirements: Public and private roads and parking areas
shall be designed to take advantage of natural vegetation and topography to
achieve maximum screening from view from public waters. Applicants shall
provide documentation by a qualified engineer establishing that all roads and
parking areas are designed and constructed to minimize and control erosion to
public waters consistent with the field office technical guides of the local
soil and water conservation district, or other applicable technical materials.
         (b)   Setbacks: Roads, driveways, and parking areas must meet
structure setbacks and must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones,
when other reasonable and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no
alternatives exist, they may be placed within these areas, and must be designed
to minimize adverse impacts.
         (c)   Shore Impact Zones: Public and private watercraft access ramps,
approach roads, and access related parking areas may be placed within the shore
impact zones provided the vegetative screening and erosion control conditions
of this subsection are met. For private facilities, the grading and filling
provisions of this section must be met.
      6.   Stormwater Management:
         (a)   Natural Drainageways: When possible, existing natural
drainageways, wetland, and vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey,
store, filter, and retain stormwater runoff before discharge to public waters.
         (b)   Reduction of Runoff Volumes: Development must be planned and
conducted in a manner that will minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff,
velocities, erosion potential, and reduce the delay runoff volumes. Disturbed
areas must be stabilized and protected as soon as possible and facilities or
methods used to retain sediment on the site.
         (c)   Design Criteria: When development density, topographic features,
and soil and vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle
stormwater runoff using natural features and vegetation, various types of
constructed facilities, such as diversion, settling basins, skimming devices,
dikes, waterways, and ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs
using surface drainage, vegetation, and infiltration rather than buried pipes
and manmade materials and facilities.
         (d)   Impervious Surface Coverage: Impervious surface coverage of lots
must not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the lot area.
         (e)   Documentation Required: When constructed facilities are used for
stormwater management, documentation must be provided by a qualified engineer
that they are designed and installed consistent with the field office technical
guide of the local soil and water conservation district.
         (f)   Stormwater Outfalls: New constructed stormwater outfalls to
public waters must provide for filtering or settling of suspended solids and
skimming of surface debris before discharge.
      7.   Agricultural Use Standards:
         (a)   General Requirements: General cultivation farming, grazing,
nurseries, horticulture, truck farming, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting
are permitted uses if steep slopes and shore impact zones are maintained in
permanent vegetation or operated under an approved conservation plan (resource
management systems) consistent with the field office technical guides of the
local soil and water conservation districts or the United States soil
conservation service, as provided by a qualified engineer or agency. The shore
impact zone for parcels with permitted agricultural land uses is equal to a
line parallel to and fifty feet (50') from the ordinary high water level.
         (b)   Animal Feedlot Standards: Animal feedlots must meet the
following standards:
            (1)   New feedlots must not be located in the shoreland or
watercourses or in bluff impact zones, and must meet a minimum setback of three
hundred feet (300') from the ordinary high water level of all public water
basins; and
            (2)   Modifications or expansions to existing feedlots that are
located within three hundred feet (300') of the ordinary high water level or
within a bluff impact zone are allowed if they do not further encroach into the
existing ordinary high water level setback or encroach on bluff impact zones.
(Ord. 010-629, 10-18-2010)
      8.   Extractive Use Standards: Extractive uses are conditional uses and
must meet the following standards:
         (a)   Site Development and Restoration Plan. A site development and
restoration plan must be developed, approved, and followed over the course of
operation. The Plan must:
            (1)   Address dust, noise, possible pollutant discharges, hours and
duration of operation, and anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations;
            (2)   Identify actions to be taken during operation to mitigate
adverse environmental impacts, particularly erosion; and
            (3)   Clearly explain how the site will be rehabilitated after
extractive activities end.
         (b)   Setbacks for Processing Machinery. Processing machinery must
meet structure setback standards from ordinary high water levels and from
bluffs.
   (F)   Nonconformities: All legally established nonconformities as of the
date of this section may continue, but they will be managed according to
applicable state statutes and other regulations of this community for the
subjects of alterations and additions, repairs after damage, discontinuance of
use and intensification of use. When a nonconforming structure in the shoreland
district with less than fifty percent (50%) of the required setback identified
in subsection (E)2 of this section from the water is destroyed by fire or other
peril to greater than fifty percent (50%) of its estimated market value, as
indicated in the records of the county assessor at the time of damage, the
structure setback may be increased if practical and reasonable conditions are
placed upon a zoning or building permit to mitigate created impacts on the
adjacent property or body of water.
      1.   The following apply to shoreland lots of record in the office of the
county recorder on the date of adoption of local shoreland controls that do not
meet the requirements of subsection (E)1 of this section. A municipality shall
regulate the use of nonconforming lots of record and the repair, replacement,
maintenance, improvement, or expansion of nonconforming uses and structures in
shoreland areas according to the following:
         (a)   A nonconforming single lot of record located within the
shoreland area may be allowed as a building site without variances from lot
size requirements, provided that:
            (1)   All structure and septic setback distance requirements can be
met;
            (2)   A type 1 sewage treatment system consistent with Minnesota
rules, chapter 7080, can be installed or the lot is connected to public sewer;
and
            (3)   The impervious surface coverage does not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the lot.
         (b)   In a group of two (2) or more contiguous lots of record under
common ownership, an individual lot must be considered as a separate parcel of
land for the purpose of sale or development, if it meets the following
requirements:
            (1)   The lots must be at least sixty six percent (66%) of the
dimensional standard for lot width and lot size for the shoreland
classification consistent with Minnesota rules, chapter 6120;
            (2)   The lot must be connected to a public sewer, if available, or
must be suitable for the installation of a type 1 sewage treatment system
consistent with Minnesota rules, chapter 7080, and local government controls;
            (3)   Impervious surface coverage must not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of each lot; and
            (4)   The development of the lot must be consistent with an adopted
comprehensive plan.
         (c)   A lot subject to subsection (F)1(b) of this section not meeting
the requirements of subsection (F)1(b) of this section must be combined with
the one or more contiguous lots so they equal one or more conforming lots as
much as possible.
         (d)   Notwithstanding subsection (F)1(b) of this section, contiguous
nonconforming lots of record in shoreland areas under common ownership must be
able to be sold or purchased individually if each lot contained a habitable
residential dwelling at the time the lots came under common ownership and the
lots are suitable for, or served by, a sewage treatment system consistent with
the requirements of section 115.55 and Minnesota rules, chapter 7080, or
connected to a public sewer.
         (e)   In evaluating all variances, zoning and building permit
applications, or conditional use requests, the zoning authority shall require
the property owner to address, when appropriate, stormwater runoff management,
reducing impervious surfaces, increasing setback, restoration of wetlands,
vegetative buffers, sewage treatment and water supply capabilities, and other
conservation designed actions.
         (f)   A portion of a conforming lot may be separated from an existing
parcel as long as the remainder of the existing parcel meets the lot size and
sewage treatment requirements of the zoning district for a new lot and the
newly created parcel is combined with an adjacent parcel. (Ord. 011-642, 12-19-
2011)
      2.   Additions/Expansions to Nonconforming Structures:
         (a)   Structure Additions: All additions or expansions to the outside
dimensions of an existing nonconforming structure must meet the setback, height
and other requirements of subsection (E) of this section. Any deviation from
these requirements must be authorized by a variance.
         (b)   Deck Additions: Deck additions may be allowed without a variance
to a structure not meeting the required setback from the ordinary high water
level if all of the following criteria and standards are met:
            (1)   The structure existed on the date the structure setbacks were
established;
            (2)   A thorough evaluation of the property and structure reveals
no reasonable location for a deck meeting or exceeding the existing ordinary
high water level setback of the structure;
            (3)   The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high water level
does not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the existing setback of the structure
from the ordinary high water level or does not encroach closer than thirty feet
(30'), whichever is more restrictive; and
            (4)   The deck is constructed primarily of wood, and is not roofed
or screened. (Ord. 010-629, 10-18-2010; amd. Ord. 021-761, 8-16-2021)
10-6-19: MANUFACTURED HOMES:
Manufactured homes may be located in any R-3 district with an approved
conditional use permit under the following conditions:
   (A)   Platted: Development in which the entire parcel is to be divided into
platted lots to be sold individually shall conform to all requirements for
subdivisions as set forth in title 11 of this code.
   (B)   Unplatted: Development in which sites will be made available for rent
shall conform to the PUD section of this title.
   (C)   Installation: Approval of manufactured housing developments shall be
based upon anchoring and support systems defined and approved by the Minnesota
department of administration, building code division, rules of manufactured
housing support and tie down systems authorized by Minnesota Statutes Annotated
sections 327.31 and 327.34. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 002-477, 7-15-
2002)
10-6-20: RESERVED
 
10-6-21: RESERVED
 
10-6-22: RESERVED
 
10-6-23: SITE PLAN REVIEW:
   (A)   Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish a formal site
plan review procedure and provide regulations pertaining to the enforcement of
site design standards consistent with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Exceptions To Review: The following shall be excepted from the
foregoing requirements:
      1.   Agricultural developments.
      2.   Single-family detached dwellings.
      3.   Two-family attached dwellings.
   (C)   Sketch Plan:
      1.   Prior to the formulation of a site plan, applicants shall present a
sketch plan to the zoning officer prior to filing of a formal application. The
plan shall be conceptual but shall be drawn to scale with topography of a
contour interval not greater than two feet (2') and may include the following:
            (a)    The proposed site with reference to existing development on
adjacent properties, at least to within two hundred feet (200').
            (b)    General location of proposed structures.
            (c)    Tentative street arrangements, both public and private.
            (d)    Amenities to be provided such as recreational areas, open
space, walkways, etc.
            (e)    General location of parking areas.
            (f)    Proposed public sanitary sewer, water and storm drainage.
            (g)    A statement showing the proposed density of the project with
the method of calculating said density also shown.
      2.   The zoning officer shall have the authority to refer the sketch plan
to the planning commission and/or city council for discussion, review, and
informal comment. Any opinions or comments provided to the applicant by the
zoning officer, planning commission, and/or city council shall be considered
advisory only and shall not constitute a binding decision on the request.
   (D)   Minor Projects:
      1.   Review Of Minor Projects: The following shall be considered minor
projects and subject to review procedures as indicated:
            (a)    No Site Plan Review Required: Building projects that
comprise less than ten percent (10%) building footprint expansion (up to 500
square feet) and/or twenty five percent (25%) increase in the assessed value of
the structure as determined by the Dakota County assessor.
            (b)    Administrative Review: Building projects that comprise a ten
(10) to thirty percent (30%) building footprint expansion and/or twenty five
(25) to fifty percent (50%) increase in the assessed value of the structure as
determined by the Dakota County assessor.
      2.   Procedure: Administrative approval of eligible site plans shall be
subject to the following procedural requirements:
            (a)    Plan review will be in accordance with established
procedures including the coordinated review by other city departments and
divisions as determined by the zoning officer.
            (b)    Site plans involving properties within approved planned unit
developments shall be subject to applicable evaluation criteria in this
chapter.
            (c)    Any major variance proposal will automatically require the
entire application to be processed in accordance with the planning commission
review and city council approval provisions of section
 10-3-6 of this title.
            (d)    Administrative approval including all applicable conditions
and requirements shall be made in writing by the zoning officer. The applicant,
in addition to all other applicable requirements, shall submit a written
acknowledgment of that approval prior to the commencement of any development
and prior to the issuance of any permits.
            (e)    Any unresolved dispute as to administrative interpretation
of city code, ordinance, or policy requirements may be formally appealed
pursuant to this chapter.
            (f)    Site plans involving conditionally permitted uses are
subject to the review requirements found in section
10-3-5 of this title.
      3.   Certification Of Taxes Paid: Prior to approving an application for a
minor project, the applicant shall provide certification to the city that there
are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest, or city
utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the minor project application
relates.
   (E)   Major Projects: A "major project" is defined as one or both of the
following and subject to review as prescribed in this section:
      1.   Construction of new structures that may or may not be in conjunction
with site improvements on redevelopment site or vacant undeveloped lands, and/
or
      2.   Building projects that comprise more than a thirty percent (30%)
building footprint expansion and/or fifty percent (50%) increase in the
assessed value of the structure as determined by the Dakota County assessor.
            (a)    Procedures: Pursuant to MSA section 15.99, an application
for site plan approval shall be approved or denied within sixty (60) days from
the date of its official and complete submission unless extended pursuant to
statute or a time waiver is granted by the applicant. If applicable, processing
of the application through required state or federal agencies shall extend the
review and decision making period an additional sixty (60) days unless this
limitation is waived by the applicant.
            (b)    Site Plan Review Requirements:
               (1)    Certificate: Certificate of survey.
               (2)    Filing; Application: Request for site plan approval, as
provided within this chapter, shall be filed with the zoning officer on an
official application form. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee as
provided for in this code. Such application shall also be accompanied by
detailed written and graphic materials, the number and size as prescribed by
the zoning officer, fully explaining the proposed change, development, or use
and a list of property owners within three hundred fifty feet (350') of the
subject property in a format prescribed by the zoning officer. The request
shall be considered as being officially submitted and complete when the
applicant has complied with all the specified information requirements.
               (3)    Proof Of Ownership Or Authorization: The applicant shall
supply proof of ownership of the property for which the site plan approval is
requested or supply written authorization from the owner(s) of the property in
question to proceed with the requested site plan approval.
               (4)    Recommendation On Action: The zoning officer shall
coordinate the review of the site plan, and provide general assistance in
preparing a recommendation on the action to the planning commission.
               (5)    Additional Information Upon Request: The planning
commission and city staff shall have the authority to request additional
information from the applicant concerning operational factors or to retain
expert testimony at the expense of the applicant concerning operational
factors. Said information is to be declared necessary to evaluate the request
and/or to establish performance conditions in relation to all pertinent
sections of this chapter. Failure on the part of the applicant to supply all
necessary supportive information may be grounds for denial of the request.
               (6)    Planning Commission Appearance: The applicant or a
representative thereof may appear before the planning commission in order to
present information and answer questions concerning the proposed request.
               (7)    Recommendation Of Actions Or Conditions: The planning
commission shall recommend such actions or conditions relating to the request
as they deem necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter.
               (8)    Approval By Majority Vote: Approval of the site plan
shall require passage by a majority vote of the planning commission.
            (c)    Certification Of Taxes Paid: Prior to approving an
application for a major project, the applicant shall provide certification to
the city that there are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments,
interest, or city utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the major
project application relates.
   (F)   Evaluation Criteria: The planning commission shall evaluate the
effects of the proposed site plans. This review shall be based upon compliance
with the city comprehensive plan, the zoning ordinance and other city codes and
policies.
   (G)   Information Requirement: The information required for all site plan
applications generally consists of the following items, and shall be submitted
when requested and specified by the zoning officer:
      1.   Site Plan:
            (a)    Certificate of survey.
            (b)    Name and address of developer/owner.
            (c)    Name and address of architect/designer.
            (d)    Date of plan preparation.
            (e)    Dates and description of all revisions.
            (f)    Name of project or development.
            (g)    Scale of plan (engineering scale only, at 1 inch equals 50
feet or less).
            (h)    North point indication.
            (i)    Lot dimension and area.
            (j)    Required and proposed setbacks.
            (k)    Location, setback and dimension of all buildings on the lot
including both existing and proposed structures.
            (l)    Location of all adjacent buildings located within one
hundred feet (100') of the exterior boundaries of the property in question.
            (m)    Location, number, dimensions, and type of surfacing material
of existing and proposed parking spaces.
            (n)    Location, number, dimensions, and type of surfacing material
of existing and proposed loading spaces.
            (o)    Curb cuts, driveways.
            (p)    Type of surfacing material.
            (q)    Vehicular circulation.
            (r)    Sidewalks, walkways.
            (s)    Location and type of all proposed lighting.
            (t)    Location of recreational and service areas.
            (u)    Location of rooftop equipment and proposed screening.
            (v)    Provisions for storage and disposal of waste, garbage, and
recyclables.
            (w)    Location, sizing, and type of water and sewer system mains,
fire hydrants closest to the property and proposed service connections.
      2.   Grading/Storm Water Drainage Plan:
            (a)    Existing contours at two foot (2') intervals.
            (b)    Proposed grade elevations, two foot (2') maximum intervals.
            (c)    Drainage plan including configuration of drainage areas and
calculations.
            (d)    Storm sewer, catch basins, invert elevations, type of
castings, and type of materials.
            (e)    Spot elevations.
            (f)    Proposed driveway grades.
            (g)    Surface water ponding and treatment areas.
            (h)    Erosion control measures.
            (i)    Calculation of total square footage of site to be covered
with impervious surfaces.
      3.   Landscape Plan:
            (a)    Planting schedule (table) containing:
               (1)    Symbols.
               (2)    Quantities.
               (3)    Common names.
               (4)    Botanical names.
               (5)    Sizes of plant material.
               (6)    Root specification (bare root, balled and burlapped,
potted, etc.).
               (7)    Special planting instructions.
            (b)    Location, type and size of all existing significant trees to
be removed or preserved.
            (c)    Planting detail (show all species to scale at normal mature
crown diameter or spread for local hardiness zone).
            (d)    Typical sections in details of fences, tie walls, planter
boxes, tot lots, picnic areas, berms and the like.
            (e)    Typical sections of landscape islands and planter beds with
identification of materials used.
            (f)    Details of planting beds and foundation plantings.
            (g)    Note indicating how disturbed soil areas will be restored
through the use of sodding, seeding, or other techniques.
            (h)    Delineation of both sodded and seeded areas with respective
areas in square feet.
            (i)    Coverage plan for underground irrigation system, if any.
            (j)    Where landscape or manmade materials are used to provide
screening from adjacent and neighboring properties, a cross through section
shall be provided showing the perspective of the site from the neighboring
property at the property line elevation.
            (k)    Other existing or proposed conditions which could be
expected to affect landscaping.
      4.   Other Plans And Information (May Be Required By The Zoning Officer):
            (a)    Legal description of property under consideration.
            (b)    Proof of ownership of the land for which a site plan
approval has been requested.
            (c)    Architectural elevations of all principal and accessory
buildings (type, color, and materials used in all external surfaces).
            (d)    "Typical" floor plan and "typical" room plan.
            (e)    Fire protection plan.
            (f)    Extent of and any proposed modifications to land within the
wetland, shoreland or floodplain district as described and regulated in this
title.
            (g)    Wetland delineation and report.
            (h)    Type, location and size (area and height) of all signs to be
erected upon the property in question.
            (i)    Certification that all property taxes, special assessments,
interest, or city utility fees due upon the parcel of land to which the
application relates have been paid.
            (j)    Solid waste removal plan.
   (H)   Lapse Of Approval:
      1.   Unless otherwise specified by the zoning officer or planning
commission as may be applicable, the site plan approval shall become null and
void one year after the date of approval, unless the property owner or
applicant has substantially started the construction of any building,
structure, addition or alteration, or use requested as part of the approved
plan. The property owner or applicant shall have the right to submit an
application for time extension in accordance with this section.
      2.   An application to extend the approval of a site plan for up to an
additional one year shall be submitted to the zoning officer not less than
thirty (30) days before the expiration of said approval. Such an application
shall state the facts of the request, showing a good faith attempt to utilize
the site plan approval, and it shall state the additional time being requested
to begin the proposed construction. The request shall be heard and decided by
the zoning officer prior to the lapse of approval of the original request.
After two (2) years have expired without substantially commencing construction,
the site plan shall become null and void and no further extensions can be
granted. The site plan review process must be reinitiated for projects that
have exceeded two (2) years.
      3.   In making its determination on whether an applicant has made a good
faith attempt to utilize the site plan approval, the zoning officer or the
planning commission, as applicable, shall consider such factors as the type,
design, and size of the proposed construction, any applicable restrictions on
financing, or special and/or unique circumstances beyond the control of the
applicant which have caused the delay.
   (I)   Site Improvement Performance Agreement And Financial Guarantee:
Following the approval of the site plan required by this chapter and before
issuance of a building permit, the applicant, as required by the city, shall
guarantee to the city the completion of all private exterior amenities as shown
on the approved site plan and as required by the site plan approval. This
guarantee shall be made by means of a site improvement performance agreement
and a financial guarantee as provided below:
      1.   The applicant shall execute the site improvement performance
agreement on forms provided by the city. The agreement shall be approved as to
form and content by the city attorney and shall define the required work and
project completion schedule and reflect the terms of this section as to the
required guarantee for the performance of the work by the applicant.
      2.   The required work includes, but is not limited to, private exterior
amenities such as landscaping, private driveways, parking areas, recreational
fields structures or buildings, drainage systems, water quality ponds, wetland
mitigation, wetland buffers, erosion control, curbing, fences and screening,
and other similar facilities. The required work shall also include all aspects
of a tree preservation plan and reforestation plan, if applicable.
      3.   A financial guarantee shall be submitted with the executed site
performance agreement as provided herein:
            (a)    Financial guarantees acceptable to the city include cash
escrow; an irrevocable letter of credit; or other financial instruments which
provide equivalent assurance to the city and which are approved by the zoning
officer.
            (b)    The term of the financial guarantee shall be for the life of
the site improvement performance agreement, and it shall be the responsibility
of the applicant to ensure that a submitted financial guarantee shall continue
in full force and effect until the zoning officer shall have approved and
accepted all of the work undertaken to be done and shall thereby have released
the guarantee or reduced the amount of the guarantee as provided in this
section.
            (c)    When any instrument submitted as a financial guarantee
contains provision for an automatic expiration date, after which the instrument
may not be drawn upon, the expiration date shall be November 15. Further, it
shall be the responsibility of the applicant to notify the city in writing, by
certified mail, at least sixty (60) days in advance of the expiration date of
the intention to renew the instrument or to not renew the instrument. If the
instrument is to be renewed, a written notice of extension shall be provided
thirty (30) days prior to the expiration date; if the instrument is not to be
renewed, and has not been released by the zoning officer, another acceptable
financial guarantee in the appropriate amount shall be submitted at least
thirty (30) days prior to the expiration. The term of any extension shall be
approved by the zoning officer. Upon receipt of an acceptable substitute
financial guarantee, the zoning officer may release the original guarantee.
            (d)    The amount of the financial guarantee shall be established
by the zoning officer based upon an itemized estimate of the cost of all
required work. A cash deposit or irrevocable letter of credit shall be in the
amount of one hundred twenty five percent (125%) of the approved estimated
cost. The amount of any other approved financial instrument shall be determined
by the zoning officer.
            (e)    The applicant may submit a separate financial guarantee for
that portion of the required work consisting solely of landscaping improvements
with another financial guarantee for all other exterior amenities and
improvements which comprise the work.
            (f)    The time allowed for completion of the required improvements
shall be set out in the site improvement performance agreement. The agreement
and the financial guarantee shall provide for forfeiture to the city to cure a
default or reimburse the city the cost of enforcement measures. As various
portions of such required work are completed by the applicant and approved by
the city, the zoning officer may release such portion of the financial
guarantee as is attributable to such completed work. Landscaping materials
shall have a two (2) year guarantee provided to the city.
            (g)    The applicant shall notify the city in writing when all or a
portion of the required improvements have been completed in accordance with the
approved plan and may be inspected. Upon receipt of such notice, the zoning
officer shall be responsible for the inspection of the improvements to
determine that the useful life of all work performed meets the average
standards for the particular industry, profession, or material used in the
performance of the work. Any required work failing to meet such standards shall
not be deemed to be complete and the applicant shall be notified in writing as
to required corrections. Upon determination that the work has been completed,
including the winter season survivability of all landscape improvements, a
notice of the date of actual completion shall be given to the applicant and
appropriate action, to release or to reduce the amount of the financial
guarantee shall be taken by the zoning officer.
   (J)   Minnesota State Building Code: The review and approval of site
improvements pursuant to the requirements of city adopted building and fire
codes shall be in addition to the site plan review process established under
this section. The site plan approval process does not imply compliance with the
requirements of these building and fire codes.
   (K)   Plan Agreements: All site and construction plans officially submitted
to the city shall be treated as a formal agreement between the building
contractor and the city. Once approved, no changes, modifications or
alterations shall be made to any plan detail, standard, or specifications
without prior submission of a plan modification request to the zoning officer
for review and approval. Significant changes as deemed by the zoning officer
may be subject to planning commission review and approval.
   (L)   Enforcement: The zoning officer shall have the authority to order the
stopping of any and all site improvement activities, when and where a violation
of the provisions of this section has been officially documented by the
building official. (Ord. 002-469, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 002-477, 7-15-2002)
10-6-24: BED AND BREAKFAST STANDARDS:
   (A)   Intent And Purpose: The city recognizes that bed and breakfasts are an
asset to the community and help the preservation of historic structures because
the expense of owning and maintaining historic structures has made them less
suitable for single-family dwellings or businesses. Conversion of historic
structures into multi-family uses is usually determined by the neighborhood
where it is located. It is therefore the intention of the city to limit bed and
breakfast uses to those structures where the use would benefit the surrounding
area by allowing appropriate adaptive reuse of historic structures. Bed and
breakfasts are allowed by a conditional use permit, subject to the conditions
provided under section
10-3-5 of this title and the following conditions in the R-1, R-2, R-T, R-D and
B-2 zoning districts as regulated in this section, subject to the conditions
outlined in subsection (B) of this section.
   (B)   Standards:
      1.   The structure is listed on the National Historic Register,
designated on the city's list as a Farmington heritage landmark or identified
as an historically significant property by the heritage preservation
commission.
      2.   The bed and breakfast shall be occupied by the owner or an agent of
the owner.
      3.   At least two (2) off street parking spaces shall be provided on site
for the owner or manager and one additional parking space per rental unit.
Parking spaces shall be hard surfaced with concrete or asphalt and shall be
well drained. The parking shall not be located between the front face of the
principal structure and the street.
      4.   The dining facilities shall not be open to the public and shall be
used exclusively by the registered guests unless allowed as a separate
permitted or special use.
      5.   An identification sign not exceeding four (4) square feet may be
located on the site. The sign must match the architectural features of the
structure. The sign may be located on the house or five feet (5') from the
property line. The sign may not be illuminated.
      6.   A maximum of five (5) bed and breakfast units may be established in
a structure and at least one bedroom must be reserved by the property owner(s)
or agent.
      7.   The owner of the bed and breakfast shall maintain a guest register
showing the name, address, motor vehicle license number, and inclusive dates of
visits of all guests. No guest shall be permitted to rent accommodations or
remain in occupancy for a period in excess of fourteen (14) calendar days
during any consecutive ninety (90) day period.
      8.   The structure and performance of the operation of the bed and
breakfast and residence shall comply with all local, county, and state
regulations.
      9.   The facility shall obtain all applicable local, county, and state
licenses as required for food service, lodging, and other service provided at,
or in conjunction with, the facility.
      10.   The property shall comply with all bulk and density standards
required in the applicable zoning district.
      11.   The property shall comply with applicable screening and landscaping
standards required by the zoning ordinance.
      12.   All rental units shall be established within the principal
structure. This requirement may be waived if the planning commission determines
that an existing accessory structure is suitable for use as a bed and breakfast
unit. The waiver shall be included with the conditional use permit.
      13.   The planning commission may modify standards or require additional
standards that are site specific in order to assure the compatibility of the
bed and breakfast activities with the neighborhood in which it is located.
      14.   The planning commission reserves the right to review the
conditional use permit annually and either continue or modify the conditions of
the permit.
      15.   The planning commission reserves the right to terminate the
conditional use permit any time the owner fails to adhere to the standards or
conditions established by this section or contained in the conditional use
permit.
      16.   All bed and breakfasts shall obtain a bed and breakfast license
from the city of Farmington prior to commencing operation. Licenses shall be
renewed annually to ensure that all provisions of initial approval are
satisfied. (Ord. 002-483, 12-2-2002)
10-6-25: CAMPING:
No person shall be allowed to camp overnight in a recreational vehicle without
first obtaining a permit from the zoning officer. A permit shall allow for no
more than three (3) consecutive nights of overnight camping within a
residential or agricultural district only. Such vehicles will not be permitted
to connect to the city sanitary sewer, but may connect to city water. (Ord.
003-493, 7-7-2003)
10-6-26: GARAGE/YARD SALES:
   (A)   Merchandise offered for sale shall be the personal property of the
occupant unless approved by the zoning administrator.
   (B)   Unless otherwise regulated, garage and yard sales within residential
districts shall be limited to no more than three (3) garage or yard sales per
year, lasting no more than three (3) consecutive days each. (Ord. 003-494, 7-7-
2003)
10-6-27: EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL:
   (A)   A property owner or contractor who removes substantial vegetative
growth for any reason including landscaping, excavating for a building
foundation or other purpose, or adds soil or other fill on property within the
city shall take the necessary precautions to prevent soil erosion, damage to
adjacent property and control runoff to surface water. Property owners and
contractors shall adhere to erosion and sediment control standards and
specifications contained in the Minnesota pollution control agency (MPCA)
publication "Protecting Water Quality In Urban Areas", as may be amended, the
city of Farmington comprehensive plan and official controls, and any applicable
water management plan of the city or other governmental units. Projects
disturbing more than one acre shall follow the most current general permit to
discharge stormwater associated with construction activity under the national
pollutant discharge elimination system/state disposal system permit program
(the permit) issued by the MPCA, as amended. The city may impose additional
erosion and sediment control requirements if, in the opinion of the city
engineer or designee, said measures are necessary to protect adjacent
properties and manage surface water runoff.
      1.   No land shall be developed and no use shall be permitted that result
in water runoff causing flooding, erosion, or deposit of sediment on adjacent
properties. Such runoff shall be properly channeled into a storm drain,
watercourse, ponding area, or other public facilities subject to the review and
approval of the city engineer or designee. Appropriate erosion and sediment
control measures shall be taken throughout the construction process. They
include, but are not necessarily limited to, the use of erosion control fences,
wood fiber blankets, rock construction entrances, seeding and/or mulch. If silt
fence is required for erosion control, the builder is responsible for properly
installing erosion control immediately after backfill of a foundation. If the
required erosion control is not installed within twenty four (24) hours after
backfill of a foundation, the builder will be issued a stop work order until
erosion control measures meet city requirements. The builder is responsible to
maintain the silt fence during the construction process. Other techniques or
combinations of the above may be used. The erosion and sediment control
measures shall be maintained and repaired throughout construction and until
such time as the property has been either sodded or a seeded vegetative cover
has taken hold. The city engineer or designee may require additional erosion
and/or sediment control at any time to ensure that erosion does not occur. All
temporary erosion and sediment control devices including silt fence, gravel,
hay bales or other measures shall be removed from the construction site and
properly disposed of or recycled. This removal and disposal must occur within
thirty (30) days of the establishment of permanent vegetative cover on the
disturbed area. Final stabilization of the site must be completed in accordance
with the permit.
      2.   Proposed erosion and sediment control measures may be approved by
the city engineer, or designee, as part of site plan, landscaping or grading
plan reviews in the context of site topography and drainage. Erosion and
sediment control may be specified by the city engineer, or designee, as part of
a site survey for individual building permits or other city approvals. Plans
and permits must be kept up to date by the owner or contractor. Erosion and
sediment control measures may also be specified by the city engineer, or
designee, as needed and deemed appropriate during the construction and
postconstruction periods for permitted or unpermitted activities separate from
the above.
      3.   Exposed soil, including stock piles shall be stabilized immediately
where activity has permanently or temporarily ceased on any portion of this
site and will not resume for a period of time exceeding fourteen (14) days.
After connecting drainage ditches or swales that drain water from the site, the
last two hundred (200) linear feet must be stabilized within twenty four (24)
hours after connecting to surface water. All seeded areas shall be mulched and
disk anchored, or covered with a Minnesota department of transportation
approved fiber blanket, as necessary for erosion protection and seed retention.
      4.   Mud, dirt, or other sediment carried onto city streets, trails or
adjacent properties from the building site shall be removed by the property
owner or contractor prior to the close of each workday. If cleanup of the mud,
dirt or other sediment is not carried out as required above, the city engineer,
or designee, may direct city crews and/or contract a third party to complete
the cleanup and bill the property owner or contractor for all associated costs,
or deduct these amounts from any required bond or security. Unpaid charges will
be certified by the city for collection with taxes and no city license, permit,
or other approval shall be issued for the property while any charge is
outstanding.
      5.   Temporary rock entrances are required on every construction site and
are required after backfilling of foundation. If the rock entrance is not
installed immediately after backfilling, a stop work order will be issued until
the rock driveway is installed. Rock driveways will also be required during the
winter months after backfilling the foundation.
      6.   All on site stormwater conveyance channels shall be designed and
constructed to withstand the expected velocity of flow from a 10-year frequency
storm without erosion.
      7.   If dewatering is to take place, adequate treatment must be provided
so that nuisance conditions will not result from the discharge.
      8.   If temporary sediment basins are to be utilized, design and
construction must follow according to the permit.
      9.   Management of solid and hazardous wastes.
      10.   A trained person shall inspect the entire site at least once every
seven (7) days during active construction and within twenty four (24) hours
after a rainfall event greater than 0.5 inch in twenty four (24) hours. A
record of rainfall amounts must be documented.
      11.   Final stabilization:
            (a)    Interior lots shall be sodded from the roadside edge or the
unpaved right of way to the back corners of the furthermost building.
            (b)    Corner lots with two (2) sides of the lot adjacent to the
street; in the front yard, sod shall be installed from the roadside edge or the
unpaved right of way in the front of the building to the back corners of the
furthermost building. Sod shall also be installed on the street side yard
within the boulevard commencing at the rear corner of the building to the rear
lot line.
            (c)    All areas that required silt fences during construction and
along any portions of the lot that adjoin drainage easements shall be sodded.
Any remaining disturbed areas not mentioned above may be seeded. Silt fences
must be maintained throughout the construction period until new vegetation is
established.
            (d)    Turf slopes in excess of three to one (3:1) are prohibited.
      12.   Failure to comply with any of the above requirements will result in
the issuance of a stop work order halting construction until the project area
is brought into compliance. Failure to remedy the situation within a reasonable
time determined by the city engineer or designee will result in the issuance of
a citation for violation of this section. Failure to have erosion and sediment
control measures in place may also result in denial of a certificate of
occupancy for the structure under construction.
      13.   The city shall collect a surety for the as built certificate of
survey and turf establishment before any building permit is issued. The surety
is returned to the person who posted the security when the as built certificate
of survey, sod and seed requirements have been approved. If these requirements
are not met, the surety will be used to either complete the grading of the lot
consistent with the grading plan and/or complete the installation of the sod
and seed.
      14.   The city of Farmington may at our discretion use turbidity
measurements as an indicator of potential noncompliance with these standards.
If NTU measurements taken at a point of site stormwater discharge exceeds fifty
(50) NTUs (25 NTUs for trout stream) a construction erosion control inspection
of the site shall be completed. Enforcement procedures and time frames to
correct noncompliant conditions shall be as specified by these standards and
NPDES general construction permit. Exceedance of the turbidity indicator alone
shall not constitute noncompliance. Sampling and analysis of turbidity shall be
completed as follows:
            (a)    Samples should be taken from the horizontal and vertical
center of the outflow, and care should be taken to avoid stirring bottom
sediments.
            (b)    A written narrative of site specific analytical methods and
conditions used to collect, handle and analyze the samples will be completed
and kept on file, and a chain of custody record kept if the analysis is
performed at a laboratory.
            (c)    All sampling shall be collected by "grab samples" and the
analysis of these samples must be conducted in accordance with methodology and
test procedures established by EPA method 180.1 or standard method 2130B.d.
Other sampling protocol include:
               (1)    Sample containers should be labeled prior to sample
collection.
               (2)    Sample should be well mixed before transferring to a
secondary container.
               (3)    Sample jars should be cleaned thoroughly to avoid
contamination.
               (4)    Sampling and analysis of receiving waters or outfall
below the minimum detection limit should be reported at the detection limit.
(Ord. 015-691, 3-2-2015)
10-6-28: RESERVED
 
10-6-29: CHICKENS ON URBAN RESIDENTIAL LOTS:
   (A)   Administrative Permit Required: An administrative permit shall be
required for the keeping of any hen chickens upon a property less than two and
one-half (2 ½) acres in size and developed with a single-family dwelling within
a residential zoning district. The keeping of chickens on lots two and one-half
(2½) acres and larger are regulated under section
6-4-2 of this code. An administrative permit must be submitted to the Planning
Department with a fee as established by the city council. Upon receipt of the
administrative permit all adjacent property owners will be notified of the
application. Supporting information/documents to be submitted to the planning
division with an administrative permit application are:
      1.   Number of chickens to be kept on the property.
      2.   Site plan or property survey showing the proposed location of the
chicken coop and/or chicken run on the subject property.
      3.   To scale building plan, including elevations, of the proposed coop
and/or run and exterior finish materials and construction methods.
      4.   Any other information the Zoning Administrator deems necessary to
evaluate the application for compliance with the requirements of this section
and this Code.
   (B)   Duration Of Permit: A renewal permit will be required to be approved
every two (2) years after the initial administrative permit is approved that
chickens are kept on an approved residential lot. An application for a renewal
permit shall be filed with the city thirty (30) days prior to the expiration of
the current permit. The permit may be terminated or not renewed for violations
of the ordinance.
   The renewal permit will be reviewed and approved administratively. The fee
for a renewal permit will be established yearly by the city council.
   (C)   Automatic Termination Of Permit: If the owner of hen chickens, who has
an approved permit, moves from the premises approved for said hens, the urban
chicken permit shall automatically become null and void.
   (D)   Limitation On The Number Of Chickens: No person shall keep on any
single-family residential property more than four (4) total hen chickens.
   (E)   Two Or More Dwelling Unit Properties: Chickens are not allowed on
properties that contain two (2) or more dwelling units.
   (F)   Eggs from chickens kept upon the property to which the permit is
issued are for personal use and consumption by the occupants and shall not be
offered for sale or sold.
   (G)   No Roosters: No person shall keep roosters, or adult male chickens, on
any residentially zoned property less than two and one-half (2½) acres in size.
   (H)   No Cockfighting: Cockfighting is specifically prohibited within the
city.
   (I)   No Slaughtering: The slaughter of chickens is prohibited on
residentially used or zoned properties.
   (J)   Ownership Occupancy: The owner of the chickens shall live on the
property on which they are being kept.
   (K)   Confinement: Every person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains or
harbors hen chickens must keep them confined on the premises at all times in a
chicken coop or chicken run while in the city. Chickens are not allowed to be
located in any part of the home and/or garage.
   (L)   Shelter And Enclosure Requirements: Chickens shall be properly
protected from the weather and predators and have access to the outdoors in an
enclosure or fenced area. The shelter and/or enclosure shall meet all of the
following requirements:
      1.   Any chicken coop and run fencing must be consistent with building
and zoning codes.
      2.   No chicken coop or run shall be constructed on any urban residential
lot prior to the time of construction of the principal structure.
      3.   One chicken coop and/or chicken run will be allowed per residential
lot provided the maximum lot coverage of the underlying zoning district is not
exceeded.
      4.   Chicken coops and runs shall not be located in the front or side
yards and shall not be placed within any drainage and utility easements found
on residential lots.
      5.   Any chicken coop or run shall be set back at least twenty five feet
(25') from any principal structure on adjacent lots and a minimum of ten feet
(10') from all property lines.
      6.   Any chicken coop or run shall be screened from view with a solid
fence or landscaped buffer with a minimum height of four feet (4'). All fencing
shall be in accordance with section
10-6-12 of this chapter.
      7.   All chicken coops must have a maximum size of ten (10) square feet
per chicken and must not exceed eight feet (8') in total height. Fenced in
chicken runs must not exceed twenty (20) square feet per chicken and fencing
must not exceed six feet (6') in total height. Chicken runs may be enclosed
with wood and/or woven wire materials, and may allow chickens to contact the
ground. Chicken runs must have a protective overhead netting to keep the
chickens separated from other animals.
      8.   Chicken coops must be elevated a minimum of twelve inches (12") and
a maximum of thirty six inches (36") above grade to ensure circulation beneath
the coop.
      9.   Chicken grains and feed must be stored in a rodentproof container.
   (M)   Conditions/Maintenance And Inspection: No person who owns, controls,
keeps, maintains or harbors hen chickens shall permit the premises where the
hen chickens are kept to be or remain in an unhealthy, unsanitary or noxious
condition or to permit the premises to be in such condition that noxious odors
to be carried to adjacent public or private property. Any chicken coop and
chicken run authorized under this section may be inspected at any reasonable
time by the city. (Ord. 014-668, 6-16-2014; amd. Ord. 023-774, 9-5-2023)
10-6-30: LIMITED COMMERCIAL VENTURE STANDARDS:
   (A)   Location And Uses: Limited commercial ventures shall be allowed to be
conducted at historic properties located within residential zoning districts
subject to the approval of a conditional use permit. All limited commercial
ventures must meet the established performance standards of subsection (B) of
this section; and containing one or more of the following uses: class I
restaurants, catering centers, reception facilities, meeting or conference
facilities, professional office uses, museums, art galleries, antique shops,
craft boutiques, or other uses deemed similar by the zoning administrator.
   (B)   Historic Property Performance Standards: In order to be considered
eligible for a historic properties limited commercial venture conditional use
permit, properties must be in conformance with the following:
      1.   The applicant demonstrates that the historic characteristics of the
property cannot be maintained reasonably and economically unless the
conditional use permit is granted.
      2.   Must be designated or determined eligible for designation as a
Farmington heritage landmark, or be on the national register of historic
places.
      3.   Adequately sized to meet the proposed use.
      4.   Adequately served by municipal services or a septic system with
adequate capacity for the proposed use.
      5.   In conformance with all applicable building and fire codes, and ADA
requirements.
      6.   In conformance with all state and county health regulations.
      7.   In conformance with the city's off street parking requirements
pursuant to section
10-6-4 of this chapter.
      8.   Adequately situated and designed so as to not create a significant
traffic impact on adjoining public roadways, and includes safe ingress and
egress to the site.
      9.   The development meets all applicable setback requirements.
      10.   Activity areas are appropriately screened from adjoining
properties.
      11.   The property and land use are adequately designed so as not to
create an adverse impact on the residential character of the surrounding area.
      12.   The development meets all applicable commercial site development
performance standards.
      13.   One advertising sign not to exceed twenty (20) square feet.
      14.   Site improvements meet the city's historic preservation standards
and guidelines.
      15.   A certificate of appropriateness shall be obtained for site work to
preserve, rehabilitate, restore or reconstruct historic buildings, structures,
landscapes or objects.
   (C)   Applications: All applications for a limited commercial venture
conditional use permit shall be processed in accordance with subsection
10-3-5(B) of this title with the exception that the heritage preservation
commission shall review all limited commercial venture applications and provide
a recommendation to the planning commission.
   (D)   Standards: The planning and/or the heritage preservation commission
may modify the standards or require additional standards that are site specific
in order to assure the compatibility of the activities of the limited
commercial venture with the neighborhood in which it is located.
   (E)   Annual Review: The planning commission and heritage preservation
commission may review the conditional use permit annually and may either
continue or modify the conditions of the permit if agreeable by both
commissions.
   (F)   Permit Termination: The planning commission may terminate the
conditional use permit, after review and recommendation from the heritage
preservation commission, any time the owner fails to adhere to the standards
and conditions established by this section or contained in the conditional use
permit.
(Ord. 014-669, 9-2-2014)
10-6-31: CANNABIS BUSINESS STANDARDS:
   (A)   Cannabis Cultivation:
      1.   All cannabis cultivation businesses must provide evidence of a state
license under Minnesota Statute 342.14 and be in compliance with the provisions
of the Zoning Code, City Code, and all applicable state laws and regulations.
   (B)   Cannabis Or Hemp Manufacturing:
      1.   All cannabis or hemp manufacturing businesses must provide evidence
of a state license under Minnesota Statute 342.14 and be in compliance with the
provisions of the Zoning Code, City Code, and all applicable state laws and
regulations.
   (C)   Cannabis Retail:
      1.   Hours of operation for cannabis retail uses shall be between eight
o'clock (8:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. Monday through Saturday and
between ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. on Sundays.
      2.   All cannabis retail businesses must provide evidence of a state
license under Minnesota Statute 342.14 and be in compliance with the provisions
of the Zoning Code, City Code, and all applicable state laws and regulations.
   (D)   Lower Potency Hemp Edible Retail:
      1.   Lower potency hemp edible retail uses shall be prohibited between
the hours of two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. Monday
through Saturday and between two o'clock (2:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00)
A.M. on Sundays.
      2.   All lower potency hemp edible businesses must provide evidence of a
state license under Minnesota Statute 342.14 and be in compliance with the
provisions of the Zoning Code, City Code, and all applicable state laws and
regulations.
(Ord. 2024-13, 12-16-2024)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Purpose
11-1-3: Approvals Necessary For Recording
11-1-4: Building Permits
11-1-5: Waiver Of Platting
11-1-6: Definitions
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF
FARMINGTON, and will be referred to herein as "this title". (Ord. 002-470, 2-
19-2002)
11-1-2: PURPOSE:
It is the purpose of this title to establish minimum regulations and
requirements for the platting of land within the city pursuant to the authority
contained in Minnesota Statutes Annotated, in order to guide the design of new
subdivisions in a manner consistent with the Farmington comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-1-3: APPROVALS NECESSARY FOR RECORDING:
Before any plat shall be of validity, it shall be referred to the city planning
commission and approved by the city council as having fulfilled the
requirements of this title. Subdivision plats shall be entitled to record in
the Dakota County recorder's office only after the plat has been prepared,
approved and acknowledged as prescribed by this title. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-
2002)
11-1-4: BUILDING PERMITS:
Building permits shall not be considered for issuance by the city for the
construction of any building, structure or improvement to the land or to any
lot in a subdivision as defined herein, until all requirements of this title
have been met. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-1-5: WAIVER OF PLATTING:
The following land divisions are exempt from the provisions of this title:
   (A)   A subdivider of a single parcel of land into no more than two (2)
parcels may request a waiver of the formal plat review process.
   (B)   The request shall be submitted on a form provided by the city and
shall be accompanied by a registered survey which shall include a key map of
the quarter-quarter section where it is located showing all other parcels.
   (C)   The waiver may be granted by the zoning officer if both of the
following requirements are met:
      1.   The property is part of a recorded plat or both parcels created by
the subdivision are situated outside of the urban service area as identified in
the Farmington comprehensive plan.
      2.   The lots meet the minimum lot requirements of the zoning ordinance 1
.
   (D)   If, in the opinion of the zoning officer, the proposed subdivision of
property would adversely affect the future orderly development of the property
or adjacent property, or if it lies within the urban service area, the waiver
may be forwarded to the city council for its consideration. The council shall
waive the platting requirements unless it determines the proposed subdivision
would adversely affect the orderly development of the property or adjacent
property.
   (E)   The subdivision requested must be effected and filed with the Dakota
County recorder and proof of filing furnished to the city within sixty (60)
days from the date of approval or the waiver is null and void. (Ord. 002-470,
2-19-2002)
 
Notes
1 1. See title 10 of this code.
11-1-6: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are hereby defined as
set forth in this section:
ALLEY: A public or private right of way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on a street.
APPLICANT: The owner of land proposed for inclusion in a development including
the holder of an option or contract to purchase.
BASE LOT: A lot meeting all the specifications within its zoning district prior
to being divided into a two-family or quadraminimum subdivision.
BLOCK: An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, or by streets and the entire boundary or boundaries of the
subdivision, or a combination of the above with a river or lake.
BOULEVARD: The portion of the street right of way between the curb line and the
property line.
BUILDING: Any structure or part thereof, affixed to the land.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The Farmington comprehensive plan and all maps, charts and
explanatory materials adopted by the Farmington city council.
DESIGN STANDARDS: The specifications to landowners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, indicating the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of
such items as rights of way, blocks, easements and lots.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner to the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation, or persons for specific purpose.
FINAL PLAT: A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all of the requirements
of the city and in such form as required by Dakota County for the purpose of
recording.
LOT: A portion of a subdivision, or other parcel of land intended as a unit for
transfer of ownership or for development. In determining the size of a lot, no
part of a right of way, street, crosswalk or easement, other than utility, may
be included.
OUT LOT: A lot remnant or parcel of land left over after platting, which is
intended as open space or other use, for which no development is intended and
for which no building permit shall be issued.
PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS: Public land and open spaces in the city dedicated or
reserved for recreation purposes.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A public right of way or private easement across a block or
within a block to provide access for pedestrians and which may be used for the
installation of utility lines.
PERCENTAGE OF GRADE: The distance vertically from the horizontal in feet and
tenths of a foot for each one hundred feet (100') of horizontal distance.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The planning commission of the city.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision meeting
the requirements herein enumerated.
PROTECTIVE COVENANTS: Contracts made between private parties as to the manner
in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving the
physical and economic integrity of any given area.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrianway, tree, lawn, off street parking area, lot improvement or other
facility for which the city may ultimately assume the responsibility for
maintenance and operation.
SETBACK: The distance between a building and the property line nearest thereto.
STREET: A public right of way affording primary access by pedestrians or
vehicles or both, to abutting properties.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
streets right of way.
STREETS, COLLECTOR: Those streets which carry traffic from local streets to the
major system of arterials and highways. Collector streets primarily provide
principal access to residential neighborhoods, including, to a lesser degree,
direct land access.
STREETS, CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
STREETS, LOCAL: Those streets which are used primarily for access to abutting
properties and for local traffic movement.
STREETS, MARGINAL ACCESS: Those local streets which are parallel and adjacent
to thoroughfares and highways; and which provide access to abutting properties
and protection from through traffic.
STREETS, THOROUGHFARES, ARTERIAL: Those streets carrying larger volumes of
traffic and serving as links between various subareas of the community.
Thoroughfares or arterial streets are intended to provide for collection and
distribution of traffic between highways and collector streets; hence,
regulation of direct access to property is critical.
SUBDIVIDER: Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, copartnership,
corporation, trust or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary interest
in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain proceedings to
subdivide the same under this title.
SUBDIVISION: The separation of an area, parcel or tract of land under single
ownership into two (2) or more parcels, tracts, lots or long term leasehold
interests where the creation of the leasehold interest necessitates the
creation of streets, roads or alleys as well as public sewers and water lines
for residential, commercial, industrial or other use or any combination
thereof, except where all the resulting parcels, tracts, lots or interests will
be twenty (20) acres or larger in size and five hundred feet (500') in width
for residential uses and five (5) acres or larger in size and three hundred
feet (300') in width for commercial and industrial uses. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-
2002)
FA192   11-02.TXT
CHAPTER 2
PROCEDURES FOR FILING AND REVIEW
SECTION:
11-2-1: Sketch Plan
11-2-2: Preliminary Plat
11-2-3: Final Plat
11-2-4: Premature Subdivisions
11-2-1: SKETCH PLAN:
In order to ensure that all applicants are informed of the requirements and
minimum standards of this title and the requirements or limitations imposed by
other city ordinances or plans, prior to the development of a preliminary plat,
all applicants shall present a sketch plan to the city planning division prior
to filing a preliminary plat. The planning coordinator will review the proposal
with the development committee, city staff, and the planning commission. The
sketch plan will be made available for review to the parks and recreation
commission, water board, and housing and redevelopment authority for review and
comment. The process allows the developer to receive feedback on the plat prior
to the expense of preparing a detailed plan on projects that may require
substantial revision before formal approval is given. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-2-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   (A)   Filing: Fifteen (15) copies of the preliminary plat, five (5) copies
of support documents, and a list of property owners located within three
hundred fifty feet (350') of the subject property obtained from and certified
by an abstract company, shall be submitted to the planning division. The
required filing fee, as established by city council resolution, shall be paid
and any necessary applications for variances from the provisions of this title
shall be submitted with the required fee. The proposed plat shall be referred
to specific individuals on staff and other public jurisdictions where
appropriate with instructions to report any commentary within fifteen (15) days
to the planning division. The plan shall be considered as being officially
submitted when all information requirements are met. Significant engineering
and planning issues shall be addressed before the preliminary plat is
considered at the planning commission level and sent to the city council.
   (B)   Hearing: The planning coordinator shall set a public hearing for
review of the preliminary plat. The planning commission shall conduct a public
hearing. Notice of the hearing shall consist of a legal property description,
and description of request, and shall be published at least ten (10) days prior
to the hearing. Written notification shall be mailed at least ten (10) days
prior to the hearing to all owners within three hundred fifty feet (350') of
the boundary survey of the property in question.
   (C)   Planning Commission Review: The planning commission shall review the
preliminary plat at the public hearing after adequate time has been allowed for
staff and advisory body review of the preliminary plat. The planning commission
shall report its findings and recommendations to the city council after the
public hearing but no later than seventy (70) days following delivery of an
application completed in compliance with this title by the applicant to the
city. The planning commission shall not act on the preliminary plat until all
information is submitted and all issues are addressed and resolved. The city
council shall have fifty (50) days to act upon the findings and recommendations
of the planning commission.
   (D)   City Council Action:
      1.   The council shall approve or disapprove the preliminary plat within
one hundred twenty (120) days following delivery of a completed application in
compliance with this title unless an extension of the review period has been
agreed to by the applicant and may impose conditions and restrictions which are
deemed appropriate.
      2.   If the preliminary plat is not approved by the city council, the
reasons for such actions shall be recorded in the proceedings of the council.
      3.   If the preliminary plat is approved by the city council, the
subdivider must submit the final plat within one year after said approval or as
approved by the city council if the preliminary plat is approved for multiple
development phases. Unless specifically approved by city council, the
preliminary plat shall be considered void after one year unless a request for
time extension is submitted in writing and approved by the city council.
   (E)   Applicant Option: An applicant may apply to process the preliminary
and final plat together as approved by the city. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-2-3: FINAL PLAT:
   (A)   Filing: After the preliminary plat has been approved, the final plat
shall be submitted for review as set forth in the subsections which follow. The
city may agree to review the preliminary and final plats simultaneously.
   (B)   Approval Of The City Council: After review of the final plat by the
planning commission, such final plat, together with the recommendations of the
planning commission, shall be submitted to the city council. If accepted, the
final plat shall be approved by resolution, which resolution shall provide for
the acceptance of all agreements for improvements, public dedication and other
requirements as indicated by the city council. If disapproved, the grounds for
any refusal to approve a plat shall be set forth in the proceedings of the
council and reported to the person or persons applying for such approval.
   (C)   Special Assessments: When any existing special assessments which have
been levied against the property described shall be divided and allocated to
the respective lots in the proposed plat, the city administrator shall estimate
the clerical cost of preparing a revised assessment roll, filing the same with
the county auditor, and making such division and allocation, and upon approval
by the council of such cost, the same shall be paid to the city before the
final plat approval.
   (D)   Street Addresses: With submission of the final plat, ten (10) copies
of the plat map showing all addresses correctly labeled in conformance with all
applicable Dakota County and city ordinances and policies shall be supplied to
the planning coordinator for subsequent distribution to the utility companies
and local school districts.
   (E)   Recording Final Plat: If the final plat is approved by the city
council, the subdivider shall record it with the Dakota County recorder within
six (6) months after said approval or approval of the final plat shall be
considered void, unless a request for time extension is submitted in writing
and approved by the city council. The subdivider shall, immediately upon
recording, furnish the city clerk with a full sized and an eight and one-half
inch by eleven inch (81/2" x 11") reduced reproducible tracing of the final
plat showing evidence of the recording. No building permits shall be let for
construction of any structure on any lot in said plat until the city has
received evidence of the plat being recorded by Dakota County. (Ord. 002-470,
2-19-2002)
11-2-4: PREMATURE SUBDIVISIONS:
Any preliminary plat of a proposed subdivision deemed premature for development
shall be denied by the city council.
   (A)   Conditions Establishing Premature Subdivisions: A subdivision shall be
deemed premature should any of the conditions set forth below exist:
      1.   Outside Urban Service Limits: With the exception of subdivisions
described in section
11-1-5 of this title, any subdivision located outside of the urban service
limits established by the Farmington comprehensive plan shall be considered to
be premature.
      2.   Lack Of Adequate Drainage: A condition of inadequate drainage shall
be deemed to exist if:
            (a)    Surface or subsurface water retention and runoff is such
that it constitutes a danger to the structural security of the proposed
structures.
            (b)    The proposed subdivision will cause pollution of water
sources or damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream land.
            (c)    The proposed site grading and development will cause harmful
and irreparable damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream
land.
            (d)    Factors to be considered in making these determinations may
include: average rainfall for the area; the relation of the land to
floodplains; the nature of soils and subsoils and their ability to adequately
support surface water runoff and waste disposal systems; the slope of the land
and its effect on effluents; the presence of streams as related to effluent
disposal. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
FA192   11-03.TXT
CHAPTER 3
PLAT AND DATA REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
11-3-1: Sketch Plan
11-3-2: Preliminary Plat
11-3-3: Final Plat
11-3-4: Address Map
11-3-5: Certification Required
11-3-1: SKETCH PLAN:
Sketch plans shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
   (A)   Plat boundary.
   (B)   North arrow.
   (C)   Scale.
   (D)   Street layout on and adjacent to plat.
   (E)   Designation of land use and current or proposed zoning.
   (F)   Significant topographical or physical features.
   (G)   General lot locations and layout. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-3-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The subdivider shall prepare and submit a preliminary plat, together with any
necessary supplementary information. The preliminary plat shall contain the
information set forth in the subsections which follow:
   (A)   General Requirements:
      1.   Proposed name of subdivision; names shall not duplicate or too
closely resemble names of existing subdivisions.
      2.   Location of boundary lines in relation to a known section, quarter
section or quarter-quarter section lines comprising a legal description of the
property.
      3.   Names and addresses of all persons having property interest, the
developer, designer and surveyor together with his registration number.
      4.   Graphic scale of plat, not less than one inch equals one hundred
feet (1" = 100').
      5.   Date and north arrow.
   (B)   Existing Conditions:
      1.   Boundary line and total acreage of proposed plat, clearly indicated.
      2.   Existing zoning classifications for land within and abutting the
subdivision.
      3.   Location, widths and names of all existing or previously platted
streets or other public ways, showing type, width and condition of
improvements, if any, railroad and utility rights of way, parks and other
public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, easements and section
and corporate lines within the tract and to a distance of three hundred fifty
feet (350') beyond the tract.
      4.   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other
underground facilities within the tract and to a distance of one hundred feet
(100'), beyond the tract. Such data as grades, invert elevations and locations
of catch basins, manholes and hydrants shall also be shown.
      5.   Boundary lines of adjoining unsubdivided or subdivided land, within
three hundred fifty feet (350'), identified by name and ownership, including
all contiguous land owned or controlled by the subdivider.
      6.   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than two feet (2'). Watercourses, wetlands, rock outcrops, power
transmission poles and lines, and other significant features shall also be
shown.
   (C)   Proposed Design Features:
      1.   Streets And Rights Of Way: Layout of proposed streets showing the
right of way widths, centerline gradients, typical cross sections, and proposed
names of streets in conformance with city and county street identification
policies. The name of any street heretofore used in the city or its environs
shall not be used unless the proposed street is a logical extension of an
already named street, in which event the same name shall be used.
      2.   Widths: Locations and widths of proposed alleys and pedestrianways.
      3.   Sewer Lines And Water Mains: Locations and size of proposed sewer
lines and water mains.
      4.   Easements: Location, dimension and purpose of all easements.
      5.   Lots And Blocks: Layout, numbers, lot areas and preliminary
dimensions of lots and blocks.
      6.   Setback Lines: Minimum front, side and rear building setback lines.
      7.   Curve; Width At Setback Line: When lots are located on a curve, the
width of the lot at the building setback line.
      8.   Dedicated Or Reserved Areas: Areas, other than streets, alleys,
pedestrianways and utility easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for
public use, including the size of such area or areas in acres.
      9.   Water Supply: Water mains shall be provided to serve the subdivision
by extension of an existing community system. Service connections shall be
stubbed into the property line and all necessary fire hydrants shall also be
provided. Extensions of the public water supply system shall be designed so as
to provide public water in accordance with the standards of the city.
      10.   Sewage Disposal, Public: Sanitary sewer mains and service
connections shall be installed in accordance with the standards of the city.
   (D)   Supplementary Information: It is the responsibility of the developer
to provide any information as deemed necessary by the city as indicated, but
not limited to, the following:
      1.   Any or all of the supplementary information requirements set forth
in this subsection (D) shall be submitted when deemed necessary by the city
staff, consultants, advisory bodies and/or city council.
      2.   Proposed protective covenants.
      3.   An accurate soil survey of the subdivision prepared by a qualified
person.
      4.   A survey prepared by a qualified person identifying tree coverage in
the proposed subdivision in terms of type, weakness, maturity, potential
hazard, infestation, vigor, density and spacing.
      5.   Statement of the proposed use of lots stating type of buildings with
number of proposed dwelling units or type of business or industry, so as to
reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire hazards and congestion of
population.
      6.   If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan for
the areas, including dimensions, shall be shown. Such proposed zoning plan
shall be for information only and shall not vest any rights in the applicant.
      7.   Provisions for surface water disposal, ponding, drainage and flood
control.
      8.   Where the subdivider owns property, or has vested interest in,
adjacent to that which is being proposed for the subdivision, it shall be
required that the subdivider submit a sketch plan of the remainder of the
property so as to show the possible relationships between the proposed
subdivision and the future subdivision. In any event, all subdivisions shall be
required to relate well with existing or potential adjacent subdivisions.
      9.   Where structures are to be placed on large or excessively deep lots
which are subject to potential replat, the preliminary plat shall indicate a
logical way in which the lots could possibly be resubdivided in the future.
      10.   A plan for soil erosion and sediment control both during
construction and after development has been completed. The plan shall include
gradients of waterways, design of velocity and erosion control measures, design
of sediment control measures, and landscaping of the erosion and sediment
control system.
      11.   A vegetation preservation and protection plan that shows those
trees proposed to be removed, those to remain, the types and locations of trees
and other vegetation that are to be planted.
      12.   Other information including, but not limited to, traffic studies
and tree inventory/preservation. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-3-3: FINAL PLAT:
The owner or subdivider shall submit a final plat together with any necessary
supplementary information. The final plat, prepared for recording purposes,
shall be prepared in accordance with provisions of Minnesota state statutes and
Dakota County regulations, and such final plat shall contain the following
information:
   (A)   Name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or too closely
approximate the name of any existing subdivision.
   (B)   Location by section, township, range, county and state, and including
descriptive boundaries of the subdivision, based on an accurate traverse,
giving angular and linear dimensions which must mathematically close.
   (C)   The location of monuments shall be shown and described on the final
plat. Locations of such monuments shall be shown in reference to existing
official monuments on the nearest established street lines, including true
angles and distances to such reference points or monuments.
   (D)   Location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks and other
features, with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the
length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground shall be shown. Dimensions shall
be shown from all angle points of curve to lot lines.
   (E)   Lots shall be numbered clearly. Blocks are to be numbered, with
numbers shown clearly in the center of the block.
   (F)   The exact locations, widths and names of all streets to be dedicated.
   (G)   Location and width of all easements to be dedicated.
   (H)   Name and address of surveyor making the plat.
   (I)   Scale of plat (the scale to be shown graphically on a bar scale), date
and north arrow.
   (J)   Statement dedicating all easements as follows: "Easements for
installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved
over, under and along the strips marked 'utility easements'".
   (K)   Statement dedicating all streets, alleys and other public areas not
previously dedicated as follows: "Streets, alleys and other public areas shown
on this plat and not heretofore dedicated to public use are hereby so
dedicated". (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-3-4: ADDRESS MAP:
The address map shall be prepared by the city in accordance with city and
county policy and shall include all addresses of lots as platted. (Ord. 002-
470, 2-19-2002)
11-3-5: CERTIFICATION REQUIRED:
   (A)   Certification by registered surveyor in the form required by section
505.03, Minnesota Statutes Annotated, as amended. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
   (B)   Execution of all owners of any interest in the land, any holders of a
mortgage thereon of the certificates required by section 505.03, Minnesota
Statutes Annotated, as amended, and which certificate shall include a
dedication statement describing what part of the land is being dedicated for
utility easements and other public areas, to whom, for what purpose in such
form as specified in section 505.03, Minnesota Statutes Annotated, as amended,
and as approved by the city council. (Ord. 009-617, 11-16-2009)
   (C)   Space for certificates of approval and review to be filled in by the
signatures of the chairman of the city planning commission and the mayor and
city clerk. The form of certificate by the planning commission is as follows:
Reviewed by the Planning Commission of the City of Farmington this          
day of                , 20    .
 
         Signed:
The form of approval of the city council is as follows:
We do hereby certify that on the          day of                     , 20    ,
the City Council of Farmington, Minnesota, approved this plat.
 
         Signed:
            Mayor
 
            Clerk
(Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
FA192   11-4.txt
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Blocks
11-4-2: Lots
11-4-3: Streets And Alleys
11-4-4: Easements
11-4-5: Postconstruction Stormwater Management
11-4-6: Water Distribution
11-4-7: Storm Drainage
11-4-8: Protected Areas
11-4-9: Public Park, Trails And Open Space Dedication
11-4-10: Minimum Design Features
11-4-1: BLOCKS:
   (A)   Block Length: In general, intersecting streets, determining block
lengths, shall be provided at such intervals so as to serve cross traffic
adequately and to meet existing streets. Where not existing plats control, the
blocks in residential subdivisions should not exceed one thousand two hundred
feet (1,200') nor be less than three hundred sixty feet (360') in length,
except where topography or other conditions justify a departure.
   (B)   Block Width: The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow two (2) tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business
or industrial use shall be of such width as to be considered most suitable for
their respective use, including adequate space for off street parking and
deliveries. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-4-2: LOTS:
   (A)   Area: The minimum lot area, width and depth shall not be less than
that established by the city zoning ordinance in effect at the time of adoption
of the final plat. Any lot created on land exceeding twelve percent (12%) in
slope shall be at least ten percent (10%) larger than the minimums outlined.
   (B)   Corner Lots: Corner lots for residential use shall be platted twenty
feet (20') wider than typical interior lots to permit appropriate building
setback from both streets as required in the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   Side Lot Lines: Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right
angles to street lines or radial to curved street lines. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-
2002)
   (D)   Frontage: Every lot must have the minimum frontage on a city approved
public street other than an alley, as required in the city zoning ordinance.
Private streets that are consistent with city standard detail plates and
engineering guidelines will only be allowed in the R-2, R-T, R-3, and R-
D zoning districts as planned unit developments within outlots owned by a
homeowners' association and subject to covenants providing for long term care
and maintenance of the private streets. (Ord. 008-577, 1-22-2008) Dead-end
private streets shall be limited to a maximum distance of five hundred (500)
feet as measured from the centerline intersection of a through street and shall
provide fro a turnaround at the extreme far end that is of acceptable size and
design to the city.
   (E)   Setback Lines: Setback or building lines shall be shown on all lots
intended for residential use and shall not be less than the setback required by
the city zoning ordinance, as may be amended.
   (F)   Features: In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown
for all natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots or
similar conditions which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and stability
to the proposed development.
   (G)   Lot Remnants: All remnants of lots below minimum size left over after
subdividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots, rather than
allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
   (H)   Frontage On Two Streets: Double frontage, or lots with frontage on two
(2) parallel streets shall not be permitted except where lots back on collector
and arterial streets or highways, or where topographic or other conditions
render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. Such double frontage lots shall have
an additional depth of at least twenty feet (20') in order to allow space for
berms and/or screen planting along the back lot line. The landscaping shall
include a variety of tree species and plantings as approved by the planning
commission in a manner so as to provide adequate separation between the highway
and adjoining land use. The materials used shall be identified on the required
drawing submitted as the landscape plan for the plat.
   (I)   Back To Back Lots: Rear lot owners of back to back lots shall coincide
or be separated by at least ten feet (10').
   (J)   Buildable Lots: The lot arrangement shall be such that there will be
no foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in
securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the zoning
ordinances and in providing driveway access to buildings on the lots from an
approved street.
   (K)   Drainage: Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive drainage
away from the buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be coordinated with
the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage shall be designed so
as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from each lot to adjacent
lots.
   (L)   Waste Materials; Rubbish: No cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks,
stones, soil, junk, rubbish, or other waste materials of any kind shall be
buried in any land, or left or deposited on any lot or street at the time of
issuance of certificate of occupancy, and removal of those items and materials
shall be required prior to the issuance of any certificate of occupancy on a
subdivision. No items and materials as described in the preceding sentence
shall be left or deposited in any area of the subdivision at the time of
expiration of any subdivision improvement agreement or dedication of public
improvements, whichever is sooner. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002; amd. Ord. 021-760,
8-16-2021)
11-4-3: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
   (A)   Streets, Continuous: Except for cul-de-sacs, streets shall connect
with streets already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions, or
provide for future connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts, or shall be a
reasonable projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts. The
arrangement of thoroughfares and collector streets shall be considered in their
relation to the reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic conditions,
to runoff of storm water, to public convenience and safety, and in their
appropriate relation to the proposed uses of the area to be served.
   (B)   Local Streets And Dead End Streets: Local streets should be so planned
as to discourage their use by nonlocal traffic. Dead end streets are
prohibited, but cul-de-sacs shall be permitted where topography or other
physical conditions justify their use. Cul-de-sacs shall not be longer than six
hundred feet (600'), including a terminal turnaround which shall be provided at
the closed end, with a right of way radius of not less than sixty feet (60').
The lots in cul-de- sacs shall be arranged in a manner which anticipates snow
removal.
   (C)   Street Plans For Future Subdivisions: Where the plat to be submitted
includes only part of the tract owned or intended for development by the
subdivider, a tentative plan of a proposed future street system for the
unsubdivided portion shall be prepared and submitted by the subdivider.
   (D)   Temporary Cul-De-Sac: In those instances where a street is terminated
pending future extension in conjunction with future subdivision, a temporary
turnaround facility shall be provided at the closed end, in conformance with
cul-de-sac requirements.
   (E)   Provisions For Resubdivision Of Large Lots And Parcels: When a tract
is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or parcels, such lots or
parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical location and openings of
future streets and appropriate resubdivision, with provision for adequate
utility connections for such resubdivision.
   (F)   Street Intersections: Under normal conditions, streets shall be laid
out so as to intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, except where
topography or other conditions justify variations. Under normal conditions, the
minimum angle of intersection of streets shall be eighty degrees (80°). Street
intersection jogs with an offset of less than two hundred fifty feet (250')
shall be avoided.
   (G)   Access To Arterial And Collector Streets: Where a proposed subdivision
is adjacent to a limited access highway arterial or collector street, there
shall be no direct vehicular or pedestrian access from individual lots to such
highways or streets. To the extent feasible, access to minor arterial and major
collector streets shall be at intervals of not less than one thousand feet
(1,000') and through existing and established crossroads. Access to minor
arterial and major collector streets shall be at intervals of not less than six
hundred sixty feet (660') involving right turn movements only when medians have
been installed.
   (H)   Sidewalks And Trails: In those cases where the city council deems it
appropriate, sidewalks of not less than five feet (5') in width shall be
provided. Where a proposed plat abuts or includes an arterial street, sidewalks
of not less than five feet (5') in width on both sides of the paved surface
shall be provided. Where the proposed plat abuts or includes a collector
street, sidewalks of not less than five feet (5') in width shall be required on
one side of the street. In all cases where sidewalks are built, provisions
shall be made for handicapped access. Trails as shown in the comprehensive plan
shall be provided at not less than eight feet (8') in width.
   (I)   Service Access, Alleys: Service access shall be provided in commercial
and industrial districts for off street loading, unloading and parking
consistent with and adequate for the uses proposed. Except where justified by
special conditions, such as the continuation of an existing alley in the same
block, alleys will not be approved in residential districts. Alleys, where
provided, shall not be less than thirty feet (30') wide. Dead end alleys shall
be avoided wherever possible, but if unavoidable, such dead end alleys may be
approved if adequate turnaround facilities are provided at the closed end.
   (J)   Half Streets: Dedication of half streets shall not be considered for
approval except where it is essential to the reasonable development of the
subdivision and in conformity with the other requirements of these regulations
or where it is found that it will be practical to require the dedication of the
other half when the adjoining property is subdivided.
   (K)   Compliance With The Dakota County Thoroughfare Plan: All subdivisions
incorporating streets which are identified in the Dakota County thoroughfare
plan, as amended, shall comply with the minimum right of way, surfaced width
and design standards as outlined in said plan.
   (L)   Street Grades: Except when, upon the recommendation of the city
engineer, the topography warrants a greater maximum, the grades in all streets,
thoroughfares, collector streets, local streets and alleys in any subdivision
shall not be greater than ten percent (10%). In addition, there shall be a
minimum grade on all streets and thoroughfares of not less than five- tenths
percent (0.5%).
   (M)   Curb Radius: The minimum curb radii for thoroughfares, collector
streets, local streets and alleys shall be as follows:
 
Arterial streets, collector and local streets  10 feet
Alley                                          4 feet
 
   (N)   Reverse Curves: Minimum design standards for collector and arterial
streets shall comply with Minnesota state aid standards.
   (O)   Reserve Strips: Reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
   (P)   Street Right Of Way, Pavement And Boulevard Width: Street right of
way, pavement, and boulevard widths shall conform to the following standards:
    STREET ROW, PAVEMENT AND BOULEVARD WIDTHS
 
                            ROW WidthBoulevard
                            (In Feet)(In Feet)
                         Without With
               Street    Side-   Side-  With  With  Curb        Design
Classification Width     walk/   walk/  Side- Trail Type        Speed
               (In Feet) Bike    Bike   walk
                         Trail   Trail
Residential       28     n/   69.5   6.5   Mount- able 40 mph
Residential       32     60   610.5  7.5   Mount- able 40 mph
Residential/      38     n/   79.5   6.5   Mount- able 40 mph
collector
Industrial/       38     70   79.5   6.5   B6-18       40 mph
commercial
4 lane
undivided         48     n/   117.5  14.5  B6-18       55 mph
collector
 
(Ord. 006-552, 3-20-2006)
11-4-4: EASEMENTS:
   (A)   Width And Location: An easement for drainage and utilities at least
ten feet (10') wide shall be provided in the front and rear yard. An easement
for drainage and utilities at least five feet (5') wide on either side of an
abutting property line shall be provided in the side yards. If necessary for
the extension of water main or sewer lines or similar utilities, easements of
greater width may be required along lot lines or across lots. (Ord. 008-583, 5-
5-2008)
   (B)   Continuous Utility Easement Locations: Utility easements shall connect
with easements established in adjoining properties. These easements, when
approved, shall not thereafter be changed without the approval of the city
council after a public hearing.
   (C)   Guywires: Additional easements for pole guys should be provided, where
appropriate, at the outside of turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be
arranged to bisect the exterior angle so that pole guys will fall along side
lot lines. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
   (D)   Drainage And Utility Easements: No structures, landscape material, or
impervious surfaces, with the exception of turf grasses, are allowed within a
front, side or rear yard drainage and utility easement with the exception of
fences installed on the property line and lot frontage trees placed eight feet
(8') behind the property line in front yard drainage and utility easements. Any
nonconforming improvements within the easement are placed at the owner's own
risk. (Ord. 008-583, 5-5-2008)
11-4-5: POSTCONSTRUCTION STORMWATER MANAGEMENT:
   (A)   Projects disturbing more than one acre shall follow the most current
general permit to discharge stormwater associated with construction activity
under the national pollutant discharge elimination system/state disposal system
permit program (the permit) issued by the MPCA, as amended, and shall take the
necessary precautions to prevent soil erosion, damage to adjacent property and
control runoff to surface water. Due to the diversity of building situations
encountered, each site will be individually evaluated and where additional
measures or variances are needed they will be specified at the discretion of
the city engineering division.
   (B)   All owners and/or operators must submit site plans with
postconstruction stormwater management best management practices, for review
and approval, prior to the start of construction activity.
   (C)   To the maximum extent practicable, there shall be no net increase from
preproject conditions for new development (on an annual average basis) of: 1)
stormwater discharge volume, unless infeasible due to environmental conditions
that exist in the area; 2) stormwater discharges of total suspended solids; and
3) stormwater discharges of total phosphorous. For redevelopment projects there
shall be a net reduction from preproject conditions (on an annual average
basis) of: 1) stormwater discharge volume, unless infeasible due to
environmental conditions that exist in the area; 2) stormwater discharges of
total suspended solids; and 3) stormwater discharges of total phosphorous.
   (D)   Where a project's ultimate development replaces vegetation and/or
other pervious surfaces with one or more acre of cumulative impervious surface,
the project must be designed so that the water quality volume of one inch (1")
of runoff from the new impervious surface created is retained on site and not
discharged to surface water. Prohibitions and/or restrictions may be placed on
infiltration techniques to achieve conditions for postconstruction stormwater
management depending on where the infiltration discharge is originating from
and/or where the structural infiltration BMP will be constructed as per the
permit. For linear projects, reasonable attempts shall be made to obtain right
of way during the project planning process for installation of volume control
practices that meet the conditions for postconstruction stormwater management.
Expectations may be made to allow for lesser volume control on site if any
limitations are encountered as per the permit.
   (E)   When postconstruction stormwater management for total suspended solids
and total phosphorus cannot be cost effectively managed on the site of the
original construction activity, mitigation measures shall be met as per the
permit.
   (F)   A legal mechanism(s) must be established providing long term
maintenance of structural stormwater best management practices, constructed
after August 1, 2013, that are not owned or operated by the city, but that are
directly connected to the city's municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4)
and within the city's jurisdiction. The legal mechanism(s) shall be met as per
the permit.
   (G)   Interior lots shall be sodded from the roadside edge or the unpaved
right of way to the back corners of the furthermost building.
   (H)   Corner lots with two (2) sides of the lot adjacent to the street; in
the front yard, sod shall be installed from the roadside edge or the unpaved
right of way in the front of the building to the back corners of the
furthermost building. Sod shall also be installed on the street side yard
within the boulevard commencing at the rear corner of the building to the rear
lot line.
   (I)   All areas that required silt fences during construction and along any
portions of the lot that adjoin drainage easements shall be sodded. Any
remaining disturbed areas not mentioned above may be seeded. Silt fences must
be maintained throughout the construction period until new vegetation is
established.
   (J)   Turf slopes in excess of three to one (3:1) are prohibited.
   (K)   The city shall collect a surety for the as built certificate of survey
and turf establishment before any building permit is issued. The surety is
returned to the person who posted the security when the as built certificate of
survey, sod and seed requirements have been approved. If these requirements are
not met, the surety will be used to either complete the grading of the lot
consistent with the grading plan and/or complete the installation of the sod
and seed. (Ord. 015-692, 3-2-2015)
11-4-6: WATER DISTRIBUTION:
All subdivision design shall incorporate adequate provisions for water supply
and distribution consistent with the Farmington water and distribution plan, as
amended, and be subject to review and approval of the city engineer. Fire
hydrant spacing shall be as follows:
 
Single-family residential 225 foot radius
Multi-family residential  150 foot radius
 
At the time each plat or replat is approved, a connection charge shall be made
for past, present or future water supply costs, payable in cash, and shall be
deposited in the "city water improvement fund". The monies so collected will be
used in accordance with the Farmington water supply and distribution plan.
Charges shall be determined as set forth in table 14, water charges, of the
Farmington water supply and distribution plan. The cash payment may be
deferred, at an interest rate determined by resolution of the city council, to
the time the first stage of development takes place, so long as the terms of
deferment are set forth in a developer's agreement executed by the city and the
owner of the plat. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-4-7: STORM DRAINAGE:
   (A)   Subdivision Design: All subdivision design shall incorporate adequate
provisions for stormwater runoff consistent with the Farmington stormwater
management plan and the city of Farmington standard detail plates and
engineering guidelines. At the time each plat or replat is approved, a
connection charge shall be made for past, present or future storm sewer costs,
payable in cash, and shall be deposited in the "city surface water management
fund". The monies so collected will be used in accordance with the Farmington
comprehensive drainage plan. Connection charges shall be determined as set
forth in the city fee schedule, on file with the city. The cash payment may be
deferred, at an interest rate determined by resolution of the city council, to
the time the first stage of development takes place, so long as the terms of
deferment are set forth in a developer's agreement executed by the city and the
owner of the plat.
   (B)   Postconstruction Water Quality Criteria:
      1.   Postconstruction stormwater runoff quality measures shall meet the
standard for the NPDES general construction permit except where more specific
requirements are provided in subsections (B)2, (B)3, (B)4 and (B)5 of this
section.
      2.   Infiltration/filtration options, and credits described under runoff
volume control criteria, subsection (E)2 of this section, are the preferred
approach to satisfying the water quality treatment requirements of the NPDES
general construction permit in areas that drain to the trout stream portions of
the Vermillion River and its tributaries where such areas do not first drain to
a water body with ten (10) or more acres of open water.
      3.   Ponds with permanent wet pools are allowed in areas tributary to the
trout stream portions of the Vermillion River and its tributaries where such
areas do not first drain to a water body with ten (10) or more acres of open
water, if the applicant demonstrates:
            (a)    No net increase in the temperature of the discharge for the
2-year, 24-hour event with the use of alternative technologies and has met the
volume control requirements of these standards; or
            (b)    That the wet pond is designed for zero discharge for the 2-
year, 24-hour storm; or
            (c)    That the volume control requirements of these standards are
met and the following measures are used to the extent practical in order of
decreasing preference:
               (1)    The wet pond is designed with a combination of measures
such as shading, filtered bottom withdrawal, vegetated swale discharges, or
constructed wetland treatment cells that will limit temperature increases.
               (2)    Additional volume control measures and credits are used
beyond that required to meet the runoff volume standards as a means of limiting
the frequency and duration of discharges from the pond.
      4.   The water quality control volumes necessary to meet the NPDES
general construction permit that are satisfied using infiltration or filtration
technologies (filtration only on type C and D soils) can count toward the
volume control requirements of these standards.
      5.   Ponds with overflows or outlets located below the seasonally high
water table are allowed only where it can be demonstrated that there is a
reasonable need for such an outlet to control seepage damage to existing
structures.
      6.   Redevelopment projects are required to incorporate water quality
BMPs to the extent practical.
   (C)   Runoff Temperature Control Criteria:
      1.   Postconstruction runoff criteria for controlling temperature
increases relies on the establishment of buffers as specified in the buffer
standard; the prioritization of temperature sensitive BMPs such as infiltration
and filtration, and the designation of temperature sensitive wet pond design
approaches in the postconstruction water criteria above; and the control of
runoff volume increases and the use of credits with the runoff volume control
criteria below. No additional specific temperature criteria are incorporated
since these other areas of the standards emphasize approaches sensitive to
runoff temperature. However, since these other areas of the standards allow
flexibility, and in some cases waivers, permit applications involving the
creation of one or more acres of new impervious surface in the trout stream
portions of the Vermillion River and its tributaries where such areas do not
first drain to a water body with ten (10) or more acres of open water: a) must
include a narrative description of the temperature sensitive practices
incorporated; and b) the city or the VRWJPO may limit or deny waivers, or may
require additional runoff temperature BMPs, if the city or the VRWJPO finds
that the site design does not minimize the potential for runoff temperature
increases.
   (D)   Peak Runoff Rate Control Criteria:
      1.   A hydrograph method based on sound hydrologic theory will be used to
analyze runoff for the design or analysis of flows and water levels.
      2.   Runoff rates for proposed activities and development shall:
            (a)    Apply land cover conditions existing in 2005 as the baseline
for existing conditions in runoff calculations.
            (b)    Not exceed existing runoff rates for the 1-year and 10- year
critical duration storm events.
            (c)    Be implemented by the city such that peak runoff rate
controls keep future peak flood flows for the Vermillion River 100-year, 4-day
event from increasing above existing conditions peak flows.
            (d)    Numerical flow standards must be adopted at intercommunity
boundaries as identified in the Vermillion River watershed joint powers
organization hydrologic model (2009).
      3.   Detention basins with permanent wet pools are allowed in areas
tributary to the trout stream portions of the Vermillion River provided the
requirements in subsection B(3) of this section are met.
   (E)   Runoff Volume Control Criteria:
      1.   Development that creates one acre or more of new impervious surface
must incorporate volume control practices into the design sufficient to hold
the runoff volume for the 2-year, 24-hour storm at predevelopment conditions.
      2.   Credits for site design are the preferred methods for meeting the
volume control requirements and shall be considered prior to the design of
infiltration or filtration facilities.
      3.   The water quality control volumes necessary to meet the NPDES
general construction permit that are satisfied using infiltration or filtration
technologies (filtration only on type C and D soils) can count toward the
volume control requirements of these standards.
      4.   When using infiltration for volume control, infiltration volumes and
facility sizes shall be calculated:
            (a)    Using the appropriate hydrological soil group classification
and saturated infiltration rate shown below:
Hydrologic soil type A: 0.30 inch per hour
Hydrologic soil type B: 0.15 inch per hour
Hydrologic soil type C: 0.07 inch per hour
or,
            (b)    Using documented site specific infiltration or hydraulic
conductivity measurements completed by a licensed soil scientist or engineer,
or
            (c)    Using the method provided in the "Minnesota Stormwater
Manual" volume 2 (MPCA 2005) pages 18 through 21 of chapter 12-INF. The design
shall consider the infiltration rates of the least permeable horizon within the
first five feet (5') below the bottom of the infiltration practice. The system
shall be capable of infiltrating the required volume in seventy two (72) hours.
      5.   Constructed infiltration facilities, such as infiltration basins and
trenches:
            (a)    Can only be used if there is pretreatment of stormwater
runoff designed to protect the infiltration system from clogging with sediment
and to protect groundwater quality;
            (b)    Cannot be used within four hundred feet (400') of a
municipal or other community supply well or within one hundred feet (100') of a
private well unless specifically allowed by an approved wellhead protection
plan;
            (c)    Cannot be used for runoff from fueling and vehicle
maintenance areas and industrial areas with exposed significant materials;
            (d)    Cannot be used on areas with less than three feet (3')
vertical separation from the bottom of the infiltration system and the seasonal
high water table;
            (e)    Cannot be used in type D soils.
      6.   Infiltration areas must be fenced or otherwise protected from
disturbance before the land disturbing activity starts.
      7.   Volume control amounts may be waived by the city or the VRWJPO for
sites with predominately type C and D soils, or where a shallow water table
prevents construction of infiltration systems, provided the following are met
in order of decreasing preference:
            (a)    Credits and site design practices to minimize the creation
of connected impervious surfaces are used to the extent practical.
            (b)    Underdrains are used to promote filtration instead of
infiltration.
      8.   Vegetation used in conjunction with infiltration systems must be
tolerant of urban pollutants, and the range of soil moisture conditions
anticipated.
   (F)   Drainage Alteration:
      1.   Outlets from landlocked basins with a tributary drainage area of one
hundred (100) acres or more will be allowed, provided such outlets are
consistent with other portions of these standards, state and federal
regulations, and the downstream impacts, riparian impacts, and habitat impacts
of such outlets have been analyzed and no detrimental impacts result. The
analysis and determination of detrimental impacts shall:
            (a)    Use a hydrograph method based on sound hydrologic theory to
analyze runoff for the design or analysis of flows and water levels;
            (b)    Ensure a hydrologic regime consistent with the peak runoff
rate control criteria and the runoff volume control criteria of these
standards;
            (c)    Ensure the outlet does not create adverse downstream
flooding or water quality conditions, or materially affect stability of
downstream major waterways;
            (d)    Maintain dead storage within the basin to the extent
possible while preventing damage to property adjacent to the basin;
            (e)    Ensure that the low floors of new structures adjacent to the
basin are set consistent with the floodplain alterations standards; and
            (f)    Ensure that proposed development tributary to the landlocked
basin has incorporated runoff volume control practices to the extent practical.
      2.   Artificial drainage, flow obstruction, and diversions involving
waterways, public waters, public water wetland, wetlands with drainage areas of
six hundred forty (640) acres or more will be allowed provided such alterations
or diversions are consistent with other portions of these standards, state and
federal regulations, and the downstream impacts, riparian impacts and habitat
impacts of such alterations or diversions have been analyzed and no detrimental
impacts result. Proposals for drainage alterations and diversions shall
demonstrate that:
            (a)    There is a reasonable necessity for such drainage alteration
or diversion to improve or protect human health and safety, or to improve or
protect aquatic resources;
            (b)    Reasonable care has been taken to avoid unnecessary injury
to upstream and downstream land;
            (c)    The utility or benefit accruing to the land on which the
drainage will be altered reasonably outweighs the gravity of the harm resulting
to the land receiving the burden; and
            (d)    The drainage alteration or diversion is being accomplished
by reasonably improving and aiding the normal and natural system of drainage
according to its reasonable carrying capacity, or in the absence of a
practicable natural drain, a reasonable and feasible artificial drainage system
is being adopted.
      3.   Drainage alterations, diversions, and landlocked basin outlets shall
be provided with stable channels and outfall. (Ord. 010-629, 10-18-2010)
11-4-8: PROTECTED AREAS:
Where land proposed for subdivision is deemed environmentally sensitive by the
city, due to the existence of wetlands, drainageways, watercourses, floodable
areas, steep slopes, or tree stands, the design of said subdivision shall
clearly reflect all necessary measures of protection to ensure against adverse
environmental impact.
Based upon the necessity to control and maintain certain sensitive areas, the
city shall determine whether said protection will be accomplished through lot
enlargement and redesign or dedication of those sensitive areas in the form of
outlots.
In general, measures of protection shall include design solutions which allow
for construction and grading involving a minimum of alternative to sensitive
areas. Where these areas are to be incorporated into lots within the proposed
subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to demonstrate that the proposed
design will not require construction on slopes over twenty percent (20%), or
result in significant alteration to the natural drainage system such that
adverse impacts cannot be contained within the plat boundary. (Ord. 002-470, 2-
19-2002)
11-4-9: PUBLIC PARK, TRAILS AND OPEN SPACE DEDICATION:
   (A)   Land Dedication Required For Parks, Trails, And Open Space:
      1.   In every subdivision of land, a reasonable portion of such land
shall be dedicated to the public or preserved for conservation purposes or for
public use as parks, playgrounds, trails, wetlands, or open space.
      2.   It is hereby found and declared that, pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
Annotated section 462.358, subdivision 2b, it is resonable to require
dedication of an amount of land equal in value to that set forth in subsection
(C) of this section.
      3.   This dedication shall be in addition to the land dedicated for
streets, alleys, storm water ponds, or other public purposes.
      4.   Previously subdivided property from which a park dedication has been
received, being re-subdivided with the same number of lots, is exempt from park
dedication requirements. If, as a result of re-subdividing the property, the
number of lots is increased, then the park dedication or per-lot cash fee must
apply only to the net increase of lots.
      5.   For purposes of this section, the term "developer" includes all
owners, developers or subdividers who have an interest in or control over the
land to be subdivided.
   (B)   Land To Be Dedicated:
      1.   Land dedicated under this section shall reasonably conform to the
City's comprehensive plan.
      2.   Land Suitability:
         (a)   Land to be dedicated shall be suitable for public use as parks,
trails, and open space or for one of those purposes as shall be determined in
the sole discretion of the City.
         (b)   The City shall not be required to accept land which will not be
usable for parks, trails or open space or which would require extensive
expenditures on the part of the City to make them usable.
         (c)   The City will not give park dedication credit for floodplains,
wetlands, stormwater ponding areas, land encumbered by gas pipeline or other
utility easements, slopes of more than twenty percent (20%) grade or for
required sidewalks or walkways within road rights of way.
         (d)   All land dedicated for parks shall at least one hundred fifty
feet (150') of street frontage on at least one side. All trails shall have at
least at twenty foot (20') wide access where the trail connects to a street,
sidewalk, or trail.
         (e)   All land dedicated for parks trails, and/or open space shall be
designed to incorporate natural features as much as possible, such as rivers,
streams, wildlife habitats, woudlands, and ponding areas.
      3.   If the amount of land required to be dedicated is more than the
amount of land being subdivided, the City will accept a combination of land
dedication and cash payment.
      4.   If the City accepts park dedication in an amount less than the
amount required by subsection (C) of this section, the developer shall pay to
the City the appraised fair market value of the remaining land required to be
dedicated. The appraised value of the remaining land required to the dedicated
shall be determined by the method specified in subsection (D)4 of this section.
      5.   Prior to the dedication of the required property, the developer
shall:
         (a)   Provide a survey with topographic data, including contours at
vertical intervals of at least two feet (2'), watercourses, wetlands, marshes,
rock outcrops, easements, utilities and vegetative data. Portions of any
property dedicated to the public for park and recreation purposes to be used
for borrow and fill activities elsewhere in the development shall be clearly
identified.
         (b)   Provide the City with evidence of title in a form acceptable to
the City Attorney or a title insurance policy insuring the City's interest in
the property. In any dedication of required land, the developer must have good
and marketable title to the land, free and clear of any mortgages, liens,
encumbrances or assessments, except easements or minor imperfections of titile
acceptable to the City.
   (C)   Dedication Formula For Park Land, Trails, And Open Space:
      1.   Residential Development: The amount of land to be dedicated shall
satisfy the City's parkland standard of 0.02 acres per person as established,
and as may be amended, in the City's Comprehensive Plan. The total amount of
land to be dedicated shall be determined by multiplying the proposed number of
dwelling units in each land use designation by the required acres of land to be
dedicated per dwelling unit as shown in the formula below. The formula uses the
number of persons per dwelling unit, as determined by the estimate provided in
the most recent American Community Survey for the City of Farmington. The
dedication rate shall be determined at the time of preliminary plat approval.
 
                     Acres of land          Persons per   Acres of land
Land Use Designation dedicated per person   household     dedicated per
                                                          dwelling unit
Low Density          0.02                 X 2.90        = 0.058
Residential
Low/Medium Density   0.02                 X 1.60        = 0.032
Residential
Medium or High       0.02                 X 1.15        = 0.023
Density Residential
 
      2.   Industrial Development: In industrial developments, five percent
(5%) of the net area (gross area minus wetland and floodplain) included in the
land to be subdivided shall be dedicated for parks, trails and open space.
      3.   Commercial Development: The park, trail, and open space dedication
requirement of the land to be subdivided for a commercial, light industrial
and/or nonresidential subdivision or development shall be five percent (5%) of
the net area (gross area minus wetland and floodplain) included in the land to
be subdivided.
      4.   Manufactured Home Park Development: The park, trail and open space
dedication requirement for a manufactured home park shall be based the low/
medium density residential requirements in subsection (C)1 of this section and
shall be determined prior to the developer receiving approval of the site plan
for such development.
      5.   Mixed Use Development: The amount of land to be dedicated shall be
based on the calculation of the individual uses within the development as
described in subsections (C)1 through (C)4 above. In the case of mixed use
projects within the same building, the amount of land to be dedicated shall be
calculated based on the percentage of square feet devoted to the nonresidential
uses and the total number of dwelling units be created for the residential use.
   (D)   Cash In Lieu Of Land:
      1.   The City shall have the option to require cash contributions in lieu
of accepting dedication of land or may accept a combination of land dedication
and cash payment.
      2.   Contributions of cash in lieu of land shall be placed in a special
reserve park fund which shall be held and used by the city to acquire land for,
or to improve, parks, playgrounds, trails, or public open space. Cash payments
will not be used for ongoing operation of maintenance of parks, recreational
facilities, playgrounds, trails, wetlands, or open space.
      3.   The City shall require a cash payment in lieu of park, trail, and
open space dedication whenever:
         (a)   The proposed dedication of land for public use is not needed;
         (b)   The proposed dedication of land for public use is not suitable
for the intended use;
         (c)   The proposed dedication of land is too small for practical
maintenance; or
         (d)   The cash payment would be more beneficial to the development of
the overall park system than dedication of the land within the property to be
developed.
      4.   Determination Of Cash Payment:
         (a)   If the City elects to accept a cash payment in lieu of land, the
developer shall pay to the City the same percentage of the appraised fair
market value of the land that would otherwise be dedicated for park, trail, and
open space under subsection (C) of this section.
         (b)   The appraised fair market value of the land shall be determined
by a qualified licensed appraiser of the developer's choosing at the time of
final subdivision approval and shall meet the uniform standards of professional
appraisal practice. The appraiser fee shall be paid by the develoepr.
         (c)   If the City disputes such appraisal, the City may, at the
developer's expense, obtain an appraisal of the property by a qualified real
estate appraiser, which appraisal shall be conclusive evidence of the fair
market value of the land.
   (E)   Modification Of Requirements: The dedication requirements based on the
development's proportional share of the city park system are presumptively
appropriate. A developer may request a deviation from the presumptive
requirements based upon: the anticipated impact of that particular subdivision;
existing park and recreation facilities; or proposed parks, open space,
recreational, or common areas and facilities open to the public as designated
on development plans. The request must be made to the City Council as part of
an application for final plat approval. The City Council, after consideration
of the request, may modify or reduce the requirements of this section.
   (F)   Credit For Private Park And Open Space: No credit to the requirements
of subsection (C) of this section will be given for private park, recreational
facilities or trails.
   (G)   Timing: The requirements of this section for dedication of land or for
contribution of cash in lieu of land shall apply at the time of final plat
approval, replat, minor subdivisions or waiver of platting, and shall apply to
any plat, subdivision, waiver of platting or development which receives final
approval.
   (H)   Improvements To Dedicated Land:
      1.   As part of the subdivision approval, the developer shall be
responsible for making certain improvements to dedicated park land, including,
but not limited to, finish grading, ground cover, construction of trails, and
clearly identifying park and trail boundaries with City-approved markers.
      2.   Park Tree Requirements: The developer is subject to Section 10-6-11,
Woodland and Tree Preservation. The developer shall preserve all existing trees
to the greatest extent possible during the grading process on the land that is
to be dedicated for a park, trail, or open space. In cases where a significant
tree or trees, as defined in Section 10-6-11, Woodland and Tree Preservation,
are lost during the grading process on the land that is to be dedicated for
parks, trails, or open space, the developer shall be required to replace each
significant tree lost with two (2) new trees that are at least two inches (2")
in caliper.
      3.   Trail Construction: When the City's trail mast plan identifies a
trail or trails to be constructed in the land to be subdivided, the developer
shall be required to pay for the construction of the trail improvements. The
construction specification of trails shall be determined by the City Engineer
and Parks and Recreation Director. Whenever possible, trails shall connect with
exisiting trails and/or sidewalks. The City's Planning Division, Parks and
Recreation Department, and Engineering Department shall determine when it is
feasible for trails to be constructed to encircle ponding or wetland areas.
      4.   Utilities: The developer shall bring utilities a reasonable distance
inside the property line of the future park, as determined by the City
Engineer, and shall cap them off at no cost to the City. Utilities shall
includes gas, storm sewer, water, electricity, and sanitary sewer. The location
where such utilities are to be brought into the future park shall be determined
by the City Engineer and Parks and Recreation Director.
(Ord. 003-490, 6-16-2003; amd. Ord. 2024-08, 7-15-2024)
11-4-10: MINIMUM DESIGN FEATURES:
The design features set forth in this chapter are minimum requirements. The
city may impose additional or more stringent requirements concerning lot size,
streets and overall design as deemed appropriate considering the property being
subdivided. The city requires all construction to follow the engineering
guidelines and standard detail plates provided by the city engineering
division. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
FA192   11-05.TXT
CHAPTER 5
REQUIRED BASIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: General Provisions
11-5-2: Monuments
11-5-3: Street Improvements
11-5-4: Sanitary Sewer And Water Distribution Improvements
11-5-5: Public Utilities
11-5-6: Election By City To Install Improvements
11-5-7:    Request For Alternate Formula
11-5-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   (A)   Before a final plat is delivered by the city, the subdivider of the
land covered by said plat shall pay all applicable fees and execute and submit
to the city council a developer's agreement which shall be binding on his
heirs, personal representatives and assigns. If lots, outlots, trails, or other
areas of the land to be platted are to be conveyed to the city, such dedication
or donation is to be made on the plat where possible, and where not possible,
shall be made by deed or other conveyance acceptable to the city delivered with
the final plat application, and recorded in conjunction with the recording of
the final plat. Land outside the plat that is to be dedicated, donated or
conveyed subsequent to final plat approval as part of another development or
phase of development, need not be immediately conveyed to the city in its
discretion, but in such event the subdivider shall post adequate security as
specified below.
   (B)   Prior to the delivery of the approved final plat, the subdivider shall
deposit with the city finance director an amount equal to a minimum of one
hundred percent (100%) of the city engineer's estimated cost of the required
improvements within the plat, and any land or areas not dedicated, donated or
conveyed to the city contemporaneously with final plat approval, either in a
cash escrow or letter of credit. The surety shall be approved by the city. The
cash escrow or letter of credit shall be conditioned upon:
      1.   The making and installing of all of the improvements, the conveyance
or dedication of all areas, and fulfillment of all terms and conditions set
forth by the city within one year unless an extension is granted by the city
council.
      2.   Satisfactory completion of the work and payment thereof, which work
was undertaken by the subdivider in accordance with the developer's agreement
referred to in subsection (A) of this section.
      3.   The payment by the subdivider to the city of all expenses incurred
by the city, which expenses shall include, but not be limited to, expenses for
engineering, planning, fiscal, legal, construction and administration. In
instances where a cash escrow is submitted in lieu of a letter of credit there
shall be a cash escrow agreement which shall provide that in the event the
required improvements are not completed within one year, all amounts held under
the cash escrow agreement shall be automatically turned over and delivered to
the city and applied by the city to the cost of completing the required
improvements. If the funds available within said cash escrow agreement are
insufficient to complete the required improvements, the necessary additional
cost to the city may be assessed against the subdivision. Any balance remaining
in the cash escrow fund after such improvements have been made and all expenses
therefor have been paid, shall be returned to the subdivider, upon submission
by the subdivider to the city of proof satisfactory to the city engineer that
all contractors and subcontractors on the project have been paid. In instances
where a letter of credit is used in lieu of a cash escrow, the letter of credit
shall be drawn on a financial institution, and in a form satisfactory to the
city and the terms thereof shall substantially comply with the procedure set
forth for a cash escrow fund.
   (C)   No final plat shall be approved by the council without first receiving
a report from the city engineer that the improvements, land dedications or
conveyances, and security described therein together with the agreements and
documents required under this section, meet the requirements of the city. The
administrator shall also certify that all fees required to be paid to the city
in connection with the plat have been paid or that satisfactory arrangements
have been made for payment. (Ord. 009-617, 11-16-2009)
   (D)   The city shall, where appropriate, require of a subdivider submission
of a warranty/maintenance bond in the amount equal to the original cost of the
improvements, which shall be in force for one year following the final
acceptance of any required improvements and shall guarantee satisfactory
performance of the said improvements.
   (E)   Reproducible "as built drawings" as required by the city engineer
shall be furnished to the city by the subdivider of all required improvements.
Such "as built drawings" shall be certified to be true and accurate by the
registered engineer responsible for the installation of the improvements.
   (F)   All of the required improvements to be installed under the provisions
of this title shall be approved by and subject to the inspection of the city
engineer. All of the city's expenses incurred as the result of the required
improvements shall be paid either directly, indirectly or by reimbursement to
the city by the subdivider. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-5-2: MONUMENTS:
   (A)   Official monuments, as designated and adopted by the Dakota County
surveyor's office and approved by the Dakota County district court for use as
judicial monuments, shall be set at each corner or angle on the outside
boundary of the final plat or in accordance with the plans approved by the city
engineer. The boundary line of the property to be included with the plat is to
be fully dimensioned; all angles of the boundary excepting the closing angle is
to be indicated; all monuments and surveyor's irons are to be indicated, each
angle point of the boundary perimeter is to be so monumented. Such monuments as
required under this section shall be set within one week of the approval of
said plat.
   (B)   Pipes or steel rods shall be placed at each lot and at each
intersection of street centerlines. All United States, state, county or other
official bench marks, monuments or triangular stations in or adjacent to the
property shall be preserved in precise position and shall be recorded on the
plat. All lot and block dimensions shall be shown on the plat and all necessary
angles pertaining to the lots and blocks, as an aid to future surveys shall be
shown on the plat. Ditto marks will not be permitted in indicating dimensions.
Such monuments as required under this section shall be set no later than one
year after the recording of the plat. The developer shall provide sufficient
surety, as determined by the city, to ensure that all monuments are set within
one year.
   (C)   No building permits will be issued within a development until all
monuments required under subsections (A) and (B) of this section have been set.
Proof of setting of said monuments shall be in the form of a surveyor's
certificate. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-5-3: STREET IMPROVEMENTS:
   (A)   The full width of the right of way shall be graded in accordance with
the provisions for construction as outlined in chapter 4, "Design Standards",
of this title.
   (B)   All streets shall be improved in accordance with the standards and
specifications for street construction as required by the city council.
   (C)   All streets to be surfaced shall be of an overall width in accordance
with the standards and specifications for construction as approved by the city
council. The portion of the right of way outside the area surfaced shall be
sodded by or riprapped by the developer if deemed necessary.
   (D)   When required, the curb and gutter shall be constructed in accordance
to the standards and specifications for street construction as set forth and
approved by the city council.
   (E)   The grade and drainage requirements for each plat shall be approved by
the city engineer at the expense of the applicant. Every plat presented for
final signature shall be accompanied by a certificate of the city engineer that
the grade and drainage requirements have been met. In an area not having
municipal storm sewer trunk, the applicant shall be responsible, before
platting, to provide a stormwater disposal plan, without damage to properties
outside the platted area, and said stormwater disposal plan shall be submitted
to the city engineer, who shall report to the city council on the feasibility
of the plan presented. No plat shall be approved before an adequate stormwater
disposal plan is presented and approved by the city engineer and city council.
The use of dry wells for the purpose of stormwater disposal is prohibited.
   (F)   Boulevard sodding shall be planted in conformance with the standards
and specifications as required by the city council. Two inch (2") caliper, as
measured six inches (6") above the ground line, shade trees approximating forty
feet (40') on center, shall be planted within boulevards on each side of
platted streets. Trees shall be selected from a list made available from the
city planner and each street will emphasize a particular variety.
   (G)   Street signs of the design approved by the city council shall be
installed at each street intersection.
   (H)   Driveway approaches and sidewalks of standard design or pedestrian
pathways as may be required by the city council shall be installed.
   (I)   Street lighting fixtures as may be required by the city council shall
be installed. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-5-4: SANITARY SEWER AND WATER DISTRIBUTION IMPROVEMENTS:
Sanitary sewers and water facilities shall be installed in accordance with the
standards and specifications as required by the city engineer and subject to
the approval of the city council. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-5-5: PUBLIC UTILITIES:
Telephone, cable TV, electric and/or gas service lines are to be placed
underground in accordance with the provisions of all applicable city
ordinances. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-5-6: ELECTION BY CITY TO INSTALL IMPROVEMENTS:
It is the subdivider's responsibility to install all required improvements
except that the city reserves the right to elect to install all or any part of
the improvements required under the provisions of this title pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes Annotated chapter 429, as amended. If the city elects to
install the improvements, the city may require the developer to post a cash
escrow or letter of credit guaranteeing payment of the assessments. (Ord. 002-
470, 2-19-2002)
11-5-7: REQUEST FOR ALTERNATE FORMULA:
   (A)   Fees For Licenses And Permits: The City Council of the City of
Farmington, pursuant to statutory authority or directive, requires certain
licenses, permits, or other City approvals for certain regulated activities
and, as a condition of issuing these licenses and permits, establishes a
process to request an alternate formula for determining development fees for
particular parcels.
   (B)   Alternate Formula For Determining Development Fees:
      1.   A developer may request a deviation from the standard calculated
development fees based upon: the anticipated impact of that subdivision on the
city's infrastructure and if that subdivision is a large lot (minimum lot size
of one acre or more) in-fill development.
      2.   The request must be made to the city council as part of an
application for final plat approval.
      3.   All development fees set forth in the fee schedule are presumptively
appropriate. Therefore applicant must show how the fees are disproportionate to
the burden the lot has on the infrastructure of the City or how the fee is not
fair, reasonable, or proportionate to the proposed development.
      4.   The city council, after consideration of the request, may allow for
use of the developer's proposed alternative formula or some other formula to
calculate the relevant development fees including but not limited to fees
related to surface water management, watermain and sanitary sewer, parks, and
other fees related to development.
(Ord. 2024-05, 5-20-2024)
CHAPTER 6
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-6-1: Nonplatted Subdivisions
11-6-2: Variances, Planning Commission Recommendations, Standards
11-6-2-1: Findings
11-6-2-2: Procedures
11-6-3: Violations And Penalties
11-6-1: NONPLATTED SUBDIVISIONS:
   (A)   Registered Land Surveys: All registered land surveys in the city shall
be presented to the planning commission in the form of a preliminary plat in
accordance with the standards set forth in this title for preliminary plats and
the planning commission shall first approve the arrangement, sizes and
relationships of proposed tracts in such registered land surveys and tracts to
be used as easements or roads should be so dedicated. Unless a recommendation
and approval have been obtained from the planning commission and city council
respectively, in accordance with the standards set forth in this title,
building permits will be withheld for buildings on tracts which have been so
subdivided by registered land surveys and the city may refuse to take over
tracts as streets or roads or to improve, repair or maintain any such tracts
unless so approved.
   (B)   Conveyance By Metes And Bounds: No division of one or more parcels in
which the land conveyed is described by metes and bounds shall be recorded if
the division is a "subdivision" as defined by this title. Building permits will
be withheld for buildings or tracts which have been subdivided and conveyed by
this method and the city may refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads or
to improve, repair or maintain any such tracts. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-6-2: VARIANCES, PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS, STANDARDS:
11-6-2-1: FINDINGS:
The planning commission may recommend a variance from the minimum standards of
this title (not procedural provisions) when, in its opinion, undue hardship may
result from strict compliance. In recommending any variance, the commission
shall prescribe any conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable for the
public interest. In making its recommendations, the planning commission shall
take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing use
of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the
proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon
traffic conditions in the vicinity. A variance shall only be recommended when
the planning commission finds:
   (A)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his land.
   (B)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public health, safety and welfare or injurious to other property in the
territory in which the property is situated.
   (C)   That the variance is to correct inequities resulting from an extreme
physical hardship such as topography, etc.
After consideration of the planning commission recommendations, the city
council may grant variances, subject to a positive response to the three (3)
tests for variance listed above. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
11-6-2-2: PROCEDURES:
   (A)   Filing: Requests for a variance or appeal shall be filed with the city
planner at the time the preliminary plat is filed stating the unique
circumstances claimed as a basis for the variance and a statement demonstrating
that the variance would conform to the requirements necessary for approval.
Such applications shall also be accompanied by ten (10) copies of written and
graphic materials necessary for explanation of the request.
   (B)   Hearing: The planner, upon receipt of the application, shall set a
public hearing for public review of the variance request. The planning
commission shall conduct the hearing and report its findings and make
recommendations to the city council. Notice of such hearing shall be published
in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to said hearing, and
individual notices shall be mailed not less than ten (10) days prior to the
hearing to all owners of property within three hundred fifty feet (350') of the
parcel included in the request.
   (C)   Planning Commission Action: The planning commission shall make a
finding of fact and recommend such actions or conditions relating to the
request as it deems necessary to carry out the intent and purpose of this
title.
   (D)   Council Action: Upon receiving the report and recommendation of the
planning commission and city staff, the city council shall make a recorded
finding of fact and impose any conditions it considers necessary to protect the
public health, safety and welfare. A variance to this title or grant of an
appeal shall be by majority vote of the full city council. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-
2002)
11-6-3: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
   (A)   Sale Of Lots From Unrecorded Plats: It shall be a misdemeanor to sell,
trade, or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of land as a part of, or in
conformity with any plan, plat or replat of any subdivision or area located
within the jurisdiction of this title unless said plan, plat or replat shall
have first been recorded in the office of the recorder of Dakota County.
   (B)   Receiving Or Recording Unapproved Plats: It shall be unlawful for a
private individual to receive or record in any public office any plans, plats
of land laid out in building lots and streets, alleys or other portions of the
same intended to be dedicated to public or private use, or for the use of
purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent thereto, and located
within the jurisdiction of this title, unless the same shall bear thereon, by
endorsement or otherwise, the approval of the city council.
   (C)   Misrepresentations: It shall be a misdemeanor for any person owning an
addition or subdivision of land within the city to represent that any
improvement upon any of the streets, alleys or avenues of said addition or
subdivision or any sewer in said addition or subdivision has been constructed
according to the plans and specifications approved by the city council, or has
been supervised or inspected by the city, when such improvements have not been
so constructed, supervised or inspected.
   (D)   Penalty: Anyone violating any of the provisions of this title shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Each month during which compliance is delayed shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 002-470, 2-19-2002)
 
