CITY CODE
of
FRAZEE, MINNESOTA
2008
Code current through:
Ord. 179, passed December 23, 2024
Â 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-833-226-3439 * www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â This code of the City of Frazee, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 179, passed December 23, 2024. Ordinances of the
City adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â American Legal Publishing
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
FRAZEE CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the city council, this code is hereby declared to be and
shall hereafter constitute the official city code of Frazee. This code of
ordinances shall be known and cited as the FRAZEE CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the council and shall be supplemented to incorporate
the most recent legislation of the city. Any reference to the number of any
section contained herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the
same number, its appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general
penalty clause relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when
reference is made to this code by title in any legal documents. (2008 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The city code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
state as the ordinances of the city of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in section 1-2-2 of this title. (2008 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the city code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this code. Each such replacement page shall be
properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of the city
code. (2008 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Said code, while in
actual possession of officials and other interested persons, shall be and
remain the property of the city and shall be returned to the office of the city
clerk-treasurer when directed so to do by order of the city council. (2008
Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the city passed by the mayor and city council prior
to the adoption of this code are hereby repealed, except such as are included
in this code or are by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal
(subject to the saving clauses contained in this chapter), and excluding the
following ordinances which are not hereby repealed:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Tax levy ordinances;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Appropriation ordinances;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Franchise ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to
persons or corporations;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Salary ordinances;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Ordinances establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other
public places;
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Improvement ordinances;
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Bond ordinances;
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Ordinances relating to elections;
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or
from the city; and
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â All special ordinances. (2008 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this code or by virtue of section 1-2-
1 of this chapter, excepting as this code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances with respect to such provisions only. (2008 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Prior Acts: No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a
former ordinance, whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not,
as to any offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act
done, any penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued
or claim arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect
any such offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Extend To All Repeals: This section shall extend to all repeals, either
by express words or implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making
any new provisions upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Current Pending Actions: Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed as abating any action now pending under or by virtue of any general
ordinance of the city herein repealed, and the provisions of all general
ordinances contained in this code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions
and not a new enactment of the same provisions; nor shall this chapter be
deemed as discontinuing, abating, modifying or altering any penalty accrued or
to accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the city under any ordinance or provision thereof in
force at the time of the adoption of this code. (2008 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this code, or any codes or portions of codes adopted herein by reference, is
for any reason held to be unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any
court of competent jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or
effectiveness of the remaining portions of this code, or any codes or portions
of codes adopted herein by reference. The city council hereby declares that it
would have passed each section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence,
clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs, sentences, clauses or phrases
be declared unconstitutional, invalid or ineffective. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS; INTERPRETATION
SECTION:
1-3-1: General Rules Of Interpretation
1-3-2: General Definitions
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Liberal Construction: All general provisions, terms, phrases and
expressions contained in this code shall be liberally construed in order that
the true intent and meaning of the mayor and city council may be fully carried
out.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Minimum Requirements: In the interpretation and application of any
provision of this code, it shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, safety and general welfare.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Computation Of Time: Whenever a notice is required to be given or an
act to be done in a certain length of time before any proceeding shall be held,
the day on which such notice is given or such act is done shall not be counted
in computing the time, but the day on which such proceeding is to be held shall
be counted.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Delegation Of Authority: Whenever a provision appears requiring the
head of a department or some other city officer to do some act or perform some
duty, it is to be construed to authorize the head of the department or other
officer to designate, delegate and authorize subordinates to perform the
required act or perform the duty unless the terms of the provision or section
specify otherwise.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Gender: A word importing the masculine gender only shall extend and be
applied to females and to firms, partnerships and corporations as well as to
males.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Joint Authority: All words giving a joint authority to three (3) or
more persons or officers shall be construed as giving such authority to a
majority of such persons or officers.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â May; Shall: The word "may" is permissive; the word "shall" is
mandatory.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Nontechnical And Technical Words: Words and phrases shall be construed
according to the common and approved usage of the language, but technical words
and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and appropriate
meaning in law shall be construed and understood according to such meaning.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Number: A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Officers And Employees Generally: Whenever any officer or employee is
referred to by title only, such reference shall be construed as if followed by
the words "of the city of Frazee".
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Tense: Words used in the past or present tense include the future as
well as the past and present.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Ordinance: The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the city
has been changed in the content of this code to "title", "chapter", "section"
and/or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and
clarification purposes only. Such change to city ordinances is not meant to
amend passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (2008 Code)
1-3-2: GENERAL DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this code, they shall have
the meanings herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The city of Frazee, county of Becker, state of Minnesota.
CODE: The city code of the city of Frazee.
COUNCIL: Unless otherwise indicated, the city council of the city of Frazee.
COUNTY: The county of Becker, state of Minnesota.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything offensive to the sensibilities of reasonable persons, or any
act or activity creating a hazard which threatens the health and welfare of
inhabitants of the city, or any activity which, by its perpetuation, can
reasonably be said to have a detrimental effect on the property of a person or
persons within the city.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this code.
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STATE: The state of Minnesota.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER AND WHOLESALE DEALER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall
be understood to relate to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things
to persons who purchase for the purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law on any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person or, in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (2008 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of this code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
section hereof nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed when
any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. (2008
Code)
CHAPTER 4
PENALTIES
ARTICLE A. GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4A-1: General Penalty
1-4A-2: Prosecutions
1-4A-3: Application Of Provisions
1-4A-4: Liability Of Officers
1-4A-1: GENERAL PENALTY 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties: Any person who violates a provision
of this code is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, may be
punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or
imprisonment for a term not to exceed ninety (90) days, or both, but in either
case, costs of prosecution may be added. Each act of violation and every day on
which a violation occurs or continues is a separate violation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Definition Of Misdemeanor And Petty Misdemeanor: A "misdemeanor" is an
offense or crime that the city council is empowered to punish with fine or
imprisonment; a "petty misdemeanor" is as defined by law.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Limitation; Compliance With Statute: The provisions of subsection A of
this section notwithstanding, no penalty shall be greater than that established
by state statute for the same offense. (2008 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. MSA Â§ 412.231.
1-4A-2: PROSECUTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Procedure: All prosecutions for violating any of the ordinances, rules,
or bylaws of the city shall be brought in the corporate name of the city, and
shall be commenced by warrant, upon complaint being made as required by law in
criminal cases before proper judges; and the same proceeding shall be had
therein as is required to be had by the laws of the state in criminal or civil
actions before judges; provided, that no warrant shall be necessary in any case
of the arrest of the person while in the act of violating any law of the state
or ordinance of the city; but in such cases, a complaint shall be made, which
the judge shall reduce to writing, and the party shall be required to plead
thereto, as to warrant in other cases; and the person so arrested may be
proceeded against in the same manner as if the arrest had been made by warrant.
All processes issued by the judge shall be directed to any police officer of
the city or the county. It shall be a sufficient pleading of the bylaws or
ordinances of the city to refer to the number and section thereof, and it shall
not be necessary to read or give in evidence upon the trial of any proceeding
or action, criminal or civil.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Judgments: Judgment shall be given, if for the plaintiff, for the
amount of fine, penalty, or forfeiture fixed by such ordinance, resolution or
bylaw, or such part thereof, if a discretion be given, as the court shall deem
proportionate to the offense, together with the costs of suit; and shall, in
all cases, further adjudge and order that in default of payment thereof, the
defendant shall be committed to the common jail of the county for such time not
exceeding ninety (90) days, as the court shall think fit. If such payment be
not forthwith made, the judge shall make out a commitment stating the amount of
judgment and costs, and the time for which committed, and in the usual form of
commitments by judges. Every person so committed shall be received and
committed to prison by the keeper of the county jail, but he shall be released
by order of the judge on payment to him of such fines and costs or by due
course of law.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Appeals: Appeal may be taken to the district court in the same manner
from judgments in civil actions by judges; except, that if taken by the
defendant, he shall, as a part thereof, execute a bond to the city with surety
to be approved by the judge, conditioned that if judgment be affirmed, in whole
or in part, he will pay the same and all costs and damages awarded against him
on such appeal. Upon perfection of such appeal, the defendant shall be
discharged from custody. (Ord. 8, 7-27-1891; amd. 2008 Code)
1-4A-3: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Application Of Penalty: The penalty provided in this article shall be
applicable to every section of this code the same as though it were a part of
each and every separate section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Acts Punishable Under Different Sections: In all cases where the same
offense is made punishable or is created by different clauses or sections of
this code, the prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not
more than one recovery shall be had against the same person for the same
offense; provided, that the revocation of a license or permit shall not be
considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar any other penalty being enforced.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Breach Of Provisions: Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to
do any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and
there shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this article shall apply. (2008 Code)
1-4A-4: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this code designating the duties of any officer or employee
shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for any fine
or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the intention of
the city council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or employee is
specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the duty. (2008
Code)
ARTICLE B. ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4B-1: Purpose
1-4B-2: Notice And Payment
1-4B-3: Amount Of Payment
1-4B-4: Failure To Pay
1-4B-1: PURPOSE:
Administrative penalty procedures established pursuant to this article are
intended to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective
and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain ordinance provisions. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those penalties as is provided for
hereafter. The individual may withdraw from participation in the procedures, in
which event, the city may bring criminal charges in accordance with law.
Likewise, the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first
instance. In the event a party does not pay the monetary penalty which is
requested, the city may seek to collect the costs of the administrative penalty
procedure as part of a subsequent criminal sentence in the event the party is
charged and is adjudicated guilty of the criminal violation. (Ord. 114, 5-10-
1999)
1-4B-2: NOTICE AND PAYMENT:
In the discretion of the issuing officer, violations of the provisions of this
code set forth below may be enforced by issuing, on a form authorized by the
city attorney, a request to make payment for the violation directly to the city
within seven (7) days of the violation. A late charge of ten percent (10%)
shall be imposed for each seven (7) days the requested penalty remains unpaid
after the requested payment is due.
SubjectÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂCode ProvisionÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
SubjectÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â       Code ProvisionÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Animals                              Â Title 5, chapter 5
Building code                        Â Title 9, chapter 1
Curfew                               Â 5-6-1
Dog license                          Â 5-5A-1
Park closing                         Â 5-6-1B2, 7-4-1
Parking                              Â Title 6, chapter 2
Public nuisances                     Â Title 4, chapter 1
Rental unit registration             Â Title 9, chapter 2
Snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles Â Title 6, chapter 4
Weeds, grass and brush               Â Title 4, chapter 2
Â 
Note:
Â Â Â 1. Â Â Â See also section
3-6-9 of this code.
(Ord. 114, 5-10-1999; amd. Res. 0510-99, 5-10-1999, eff. 5-10-1999; 2008 Code;
Ord. 146, 7-18-2011; Ord. 174, 1-22-2025)
1-4B-3: AMOUNT OF PAYMENT:
The amount payable shall be determined according to the schedule adopted by
resolution of the city council from time to time and shall be paid directly to
the city clerk-treasurer. In the event a party is charged with a subsequent
violation within a twelve (12) month period, the subsequent request for payment
shall be increased by twenty five percent (25%) above the previous payment.
(Ord. 114, 5-10-1999)
1-4B-4: FAILURE TO PAY:
Failure to make payment for the violation in the time specified will result in
the late charge described in section 1-4B-2 of this article and may result in
prosecution consistent with applicable statutes and ordinances. (Ord. 114, 5-
10-1999)
CHAPTER 5
CITY OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Compensation Of Mayor And Council Members
1-5-2: City Clerk-Treasurer
1-5-1: COMPENSATION OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS:
The salary of the city council members is one thousand eight hundred dollars
($1,800.00) per year, and the salary of the mayor is three thousand four
hundred dollars ($3,400.00) per year. The city council and mayor will be
compensated fifty dollars ($50.00) for each special meeting. (Ord. 140, 10-13-
2008)
1-5-2: CITY CLERK-TREASURER:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Office Established: Pursuant to the authority granted by Minnesota
statutes section 412.591, the offices of the city clerk and city treasurer are
hereby combined in the office of city clerk-treasurer.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Annual Audit: Beginning with the year 1970 and each year thereafter,
there shall be an audit of the city's affairs by the state auditor or a public
accountant in accordance with minimum auditing procedures prescribed by the
state auditor. (Ord. 76, 2-3-1970; amd. 2008 Code)
ARTICLE A. CITY ADMINISTRATOR
SECTION:
1-5A-1: Appointment; Term Of Office; Removal
1-5A-2: Qualifications
1-5A-3: Duties And Responsibilities
1-5A-4: May Serve Other Positions
1-5A-5: Absence Or Vacancy In Office
1-5A-6: Contract For Services
1-5A-1: APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE; REMOVAL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The city administrator shall be chosen by the city council on the basis
of training, experience and administrative qualifications. The city
administrator shall be appointed for an indefinite period of time by a majority
of the city council.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Unless otherwise modified by the provisions of this article or by the
terms of a written contract, the city administrator shall be an "at will"
employee. (2008 Code)
1-5A-2: QUALIFICATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The city administrator must have the ability to plan development within
the city, to collect materials and to be able to analyze that material for
reporting to the city council, and to conduct and implement studies as to
procedures, operations, and organization.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The city administrator must have considerable knowledge of municipal
government operation, proper procedures, public relations, finances, purchasing
and all administrative requirements for proper municipal operation. The city
administrator shall have knowledge of, or ability to acquire full knowledge of,
laws affecting the city. The city administrator shall have the ability to
provide harmonious relations with city employees and the general public, shall
have the ability to plan development, collect materials and analyze for
reporting, and shall conduct and implement standards of procedure, operation
and organization. (2008 Code)
1-5A-3: DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES:
The duties and responsibilities of the city administrator shall be as follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Subject to city council regulations and applicable laws, the city
administrator shall control and direct the administration of municipal affairs.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The city administrator shall see that all laws, ordinances and
resolutions of the city are enforced.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The city administrator shall supervise the activities of all city
department heads and personnel of the city in the administration of municipal
policy with authority to effectively recommend their employment or removal.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The city administrator shall attend and participate in all meetings of
the city council, shall be responsible for the preparation of the city council
agenda, and shall recommend to the city council such measures as may be deemed
necessary for the welfare of the citizens and the efficient administration of
the city. The administrator may attend board, commission, or committee meetings
as desired or as directed by the city council.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The city administrator is responsible for the preparation of the EDA
agendas and may serve as the executive director.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The city administrator shall be responsible for the preparation of the
annual fiscal budget and capital improvement plan for the city council. The
city administrator shall maintain financial guidelines for the city within the
scope of job responsibilities, submit reports to the city council on the
financial condition of municipal accounts and make sure the annual financial
statement is prepared in accordance with Minnesota statutes.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â The city administrator shall handle all personnel matters for the city
in conjunction with policies established by the city council. The city
administrator shall recommend terms and conditions of employee labor contracts
for presentation to the city council.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â The city administrator shall represent the city at official functions
as directed by the city council and maintain good public relations with the
citizens of the community.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â The city administrator shall act as the chief purchasing agent for the
city and be responsible for making all purchases in accordance with the
approved municipal budget and purchasing ordinances. The city administrator
shall have the authority to sign purchase orders for routine services,
equipment and supplies for which the cost does not exceed five thousand dollars
($5,000.00). All claims resulting from orders placed by the city shall be
audited for payment by the city council. The city administrator shall negotiate
contracts for merchandise, materials, equipment or construction work for
presentation to the city council.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â The city administrator shall coordinate municipal programs and
activities as directed by the city council and shall monitor all consultant and
contract work performed for the city.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â The city administrator shall work in cooperation with the city
council's appointed attorney, engineer and other outside consultants.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â The city administrator shall prepare news releases and develop and
discuss public relations with all concerned as required.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â The city administrator shall be informed regarding federal, state and
county programs which affect the city. The city administrator shall consult
with officials of both public and private agencies as may be required.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â The city administrator shall inform the city council on matters dealing
with the administration of the city and prepare and submit to the city council
for adoption an administrative code encompassing the details of administrative
procedures.
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â The city administrator shall be required to take an oath of office and
shall be bonded, at city expense, through a position bond or equivalent which
will indemnify the city.
Â Â Â P.Â Â Â The city administrator shall supervise, maintain or coordinate with the
city clerk-treasurer for the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A minute book noting therein all proceedings of the city council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â An ordinance book to record at length all ordinances passed by the
city council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â An account book where all money transactions of the city are
maintained, including the dates and amounts of all receipts and the person from
whom the money was received, and all orders drawn upon the clerk-treasurer with
their payee object.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Ordinances, resolutions and claims considered by the council need
not be given in full in the minute book if they appear in other permanent
records of the administrator and can be accurately identified from the
description given in the minutes. The city administrator may act as the clerk-
treasurer or deputy clerk-treasurer of the city, may be custodian of its seal
and records, may sign official papers, may post and publish such notices,
ordinances and resolutions as may be required and shall perform such other
appropriate duties as may be imposed by the council. In case of the city
administrator's absence from the city or disability, the council may appoint a
deputy city administrator, if there is none, to serve during the absence or
disability. The deputy may discharge any of the duties of the city
administrator; except, that said deputy shall not be a member of the council.
The council may discharge the duties of city administrator without appointing a
deputy city administrator.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The city administrator shall coordinate a calendar of expiration of
all developers' letters of credit.
Â Â Â Q.Â Â Â The city administrator shall have the duties of the city clerk-
treasurer.
Â Â Â R.Â Â Â The city administrator shall perform such other duties as may be
prescribed by law or required by ordinance or resolution adopted by the city
council. (2008 Code)
1-5A-4: MAY SERVE OTHER POSITIONS:
The city council may appoint the city administrator to serve as the city clerk-
treasurer, deputy city clerk-treasurer and other positions as may be required
from time to time at its discretion through the use of a resolution of the
council. (2008 Code)
1-5A-5: ABSENCE OR VACANCY IN OFFICE:
In the absence of or temporary vacancy in the position of city administrator,
the title of administrator and/or city administrator as written in all
ordinances, resolutions, and/or motions adopted/passed by the city council
shall be replaced by a person or position as designated by resolution. (2008
Code)
1-5A-6: CONTRACT FOR SERVICES:
The city administrator shall be an employee of the city, with appointment by
resolution. At the city's discretion, the administrator may be employed through
the use of a contractual employment agreement. Terms of such a contract will
comply with state law, including pay, equity and the provisions of this
article. (2008 Code)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-1-1: Established
2-1-2: Composition; Appointment; Removals
2-1-3: Term Of Office; Vacancies
2-1-4: Oath Of Office; Compensation
2-1-5: Organization; Meetings
2-1-6: Powers And Duties
2-1-7: Procedures
2-1-8: Expenditures
2-1-1: ESTABLISHED:
A planning commission for the city of Frazee is hereby established pursuant to
section 462.354 of the Minnesota statutes, as amended from time to time. The
planning commission shall be the city's planning agency. (Ord. 145, 1-10-2011)
2-1-2: COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENT; REMOVALS:
The planning commission shall consist of five (5) members appointed by the city
council, any of which may at any time be removed by a majority vote of the
council. The city council shall annually select one of its members to serve on
the commission and report back to council. The city of Frazee zoning
administrator shall act as commission secretary. (Ord. 145, 1-10-2011)
2-1-3: TERM OF OFFICE; VACANCIES:
Appointments shall be made annually by the city council, with term commencing
on February 1 in the year of appointment. An absence from any three (3)
meetings in a year, unless excused in advance by the chair, constitutes a
vacancy. Vacancies during the term shall be filled by appointment by the city
council. (Ord. 145, 1-10-2011)
2-1-4: OATH OF OFFICE; COMPENSATION:
Every member appointed shall, before entering upon the discharge of his/her
office, take an oath that he/she will faithfully discharge the duties of the
office. Members shall serve without compensation except as determined by the
city council. (Ord. 145, 1-10-2011)
2-1-5: ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Officers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The planning commission shall annually elect a chairperson and a
vice chairperson from among its appointed members and the commission may create
and fill such offices as it may determine necessary. The ex officio position of
secretary shall be held by the city of Frazee zoning administrator.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The chairperson, or if absent, the vice chairperson, shall preside
over meetings of the commission. In the absence of both the chair and the vice
chair, the members present shall elect a temporary presiding officer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The secretary shall keep a record of all proceedings of the
commission, transmit its recommendations to the council and perform such other
duties as are usually performed by the secretary of a deliberative body. In the
absence of or temporary vacancy in the position of secretary, an interim
secretary shall be elected by the commission to carry out the secretarial
duties until the position has been filled.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Quorum: Three (3) members of the commission shall constitute a quorum
to transact business.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Meetings:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Regular Meetings: The commission shall hold at least one regular
meeting each month. It shall adopt rules for transaction of business and shall
keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, and findings, which shall be a
public record.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Special Meetings: The secretary (zoning administrator), chairperson
or any two (2) members of the commission may call special meetings of the
commission in compliance with the Minnesota open meeting law. The failure to
notify any member who is absent from the city or is unable to receive notice
shall in no way invalidate the proceedings at such special meeting if a quorum
is present. (Ord. 145, 1-10-2011)
2-1-6: POWERS AND DUTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Generally: The planning commission shall be the planning agency and
shall have the powers and duties given such agencies generally by Minnesota
state statute 462.354. The planning commission shall also exercise the duties
conferred upon its members by this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Physical Development And Planning: The planning commission is charged
with the duty of formulating, preparing and proposing for adoption, plans,
programs and policies relative to the present or future physical development
and planning of the city and relative to any other planning and development
activities authorized by Minnesota statutes. This includes, but is not limited
to, zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, and other policies related to
physical development and planning.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Comprehensive Plan: It shall be the concern of the planning commission
to recommend to the city council reasonable and practical means for putting
into effect the comprehensive plan or any section thereof in order that it will
serve as a pattern and guide for the orderly physical development of the city
and as a basis for judging the timely disbursement of funds to implement the
objectives. Means of effectuating the plan shall, among other things, consist
of a zoning ordinance, subdivision regulations, capital improvement programming
and technical review, and recommendations of matters referred to the planning
commission by the city council. The commission shall review, formulate changes,
and, from time to time, revise the comprehensive plan and shall submit the same
to the council for its consideration as developments or changes indicate.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Variances: All applications for variances shall be referred to the
planning commission which shall have the powers of a board of appeals and
adjustments as provided for in Minnesota state statute 462.357, subdivision 6,
as it may be amended from time to time, and shall act in a manner advisory to
the city council. Applications shall be forwarded, with or without
recommendations, directly to the city council for its decision. Variances may
be granted from the literal provisions of an ordinance only where strict
enforcement would cause undue hardship because of circumstances unique to the
individual property under consideration as authorized by Minnesota state
statute 462.357, subdivision 6(2), as it may be amended from time to time.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Other Planning Matters: The council shall refer to the planning
commission all petitions for annexations, all petitions for zone changes, all
concept plans, plats and replats of lands in the city, all petitions for the
vacating of streets and alleys, requests for conditional use permits under the
terms of the zoning ordinance, and other related planning matters for
recommendation prior to final approval by the Frazee city council.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Work With Other Boards, Departments And Agencies: The planning
commission shall coordinate with all of the city boards and departments and
other governmental agencies and private utilities with respect to needs for
public lands, easements and streets and coordinate other planning and zoning
matters before making a recommendation to the council.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Limits Of Authority: The function of the commission shall be advisory
only, except in those instances where it is given specific authority to act by
the council. (Ord. 145, 1-10-2011)
2-1-7: PROCEDURES:
All applications or petitions for plat and replat approval, annexations, zone
changes, vacating of streets, alleys or other public grounds, and all
applications or petitions relating to other planning matters, shall be filed
with the zoning administrator in the office of the city clerk together with all
supporting data and information required by state law or policy, procedure, or
ordinance of the city. Upon the filing of any such completed application or
petition, the zoning administrator shall immediately forward a copy of the same
together with the supporting data and information to the planning commission
for processing, review and recommendation. Subsequently, the zoning
administrator shall submit a copy, along with the recommendation of the
planning commission to the council at subsequent meetings. To allow adequate
time for processing, an application or petition must be filed with the zoning
administrator at least twenty (20) days before the meeting of the planning
commission. All completed applications will receive action within sixty (60)
days after they are submitted, unless the time limits are extended pursuant to
Minnesota statute 15.99. (Ord. 145, 1-10-2011)
2-1-8: EXPENDITURES:
No expenditures by the commission shall be made unless and until authorized for
the purpose by the city council. (Ord. 145, 1-10-2011)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
SECTION:
3-1-1: License Required
3-1-2: Application For License
3-1-3: Term Of License; Proration Of Fee
3-1-4: Inspections Or Investigations
3-1-5: Disposition Of Fees; Issuance Of License
3-1-6: Building And Premises
3-1-7: Change Of Location
3-1-8: Nuisances
3-1-9: Nontransferability Of License
3-1-10: Posting License
3-1-11: Suspension Or Revocation Of License; Hearing
3-1-12: Appeals
3-1-13: Penalty
3-1-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
No person shall engage in any of the trades, businesses, or professions for
which licenses are required by this title or by any other ordinance of the city
or provision of this code without first applying for and obtaining a license
from the city administrator or other duly authorized issuing authority. (2008
Code)
3-1-2: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Every application for a license shall be made to the city administrator on
forms supplied by the city. The application shall state the applicant's name,
address, and telephone number, the name of the business, if different, the
address and telephone number of the premises on or from which the business is
to be conducted, any other business operated on or from the same premises, the
type of license applied for, and such other information as may be required by
this code or by the city council. All applications shall be accompanied by
payment in full of the license fee. No person shall knowingly make a false
statement in any license application. (2008 Code)
3-1-3: TERM OF LICENSE; PRORATION OF FEE:
All licenses, unless otherwise provided, shall expire December 31 of each year.
Except as necessary to coordinate expiration dates, all licenses shall be for a
one year term. When a license is issued for less than a full year, the fee
shall be prorated at the rate of one-twelfth (1/12) of the annual fee for each
month or fraction of a month remaining in the year. (2008 Code)
3-1-4: INSPECTIONS OR INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license where laws of the city
necessitate an inspection or investigation before the issuance of such license,
the city administrator shall refer such application to the proper officer for
making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours of the time of such
receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the investigation or
inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or otherwise, within ten (10)
days after receiving the application or a copy thereof. (2008 Code)
3-1-5: DISPOSITION OF FEES; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE:
Upon receipt of an application for a license, accompanied by the proper fee and
approval by another officer or department if required, the city administrator
shall deposit the fee in the general fund of the city and issue to the
applicant a proper license certificate signed by the mayor and city
administrator. (2008 Code)
3-1-6: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business if the premises and
building to be used for the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements
of the city. (2008 Code)
3-1-7: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation may be changed, provided ten (10) days' notice thereof
is given to the city administrator, and further provided, there is compliance
with the building requirements of this code. (2008 Code)
3-1-8: NUISANCES:
No business, licensed or not, shall be conducted or operated as to amount to a
nuisance in fact. (2008 Code)
3-1-9: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
Every license shall be issued to a real party in interest in the enterprise or
business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall be assigned or
transferred. (2008 Code)
3-1-10: POSTING LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the city
to keep his license posted at all times in a prominent place on the premises
used for such business. (2008 Code)
3-1-11: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authority: Any license, for a limited time, may be suspended or revoked
by the city administrator or city council during the life of such license for
the violation by the licensee of any provision relating to the license, the
subject of the license, or the premises occupied. Such revocation may be in
addition to any fine imposed. The city administrator or city council shall be
authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the
premises, and the suspension of any business license for a period not to exceed
fifteen (15) days.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Hearing:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Within ten (10) days after the city administrator or city council
has so acted, the mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining
whether or not the license should be further suspended or revoked.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Notice of hearing for suspension or revocation of a license shall be
given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and
the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the licensee by
certified mail at his last known address or personally served at least five (5)
days prior to the date of the hearing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â At the hearing, the licensee shall be permitted counsel and shall
have the right to submit evidence and cross examine witnesses. If, after
hearing, a majority of the members of the city council present at the meeting
declare in favor of the applicant, the license shall be fully reinstated;
otherwise, the suspension or revocation shall become final.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Causes For Suspension Or Revocation: Business licenses issued under the
ordinances of the city, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the city
council after notice and hearing as provided in subsections B2 and B3 of this
section for any of the following causes:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â For conditions or considerations which, had they existed at the time
of issuance, would have been valid grounds for its denial.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any violation by the licensee of ordinance provisions or state law
relating to the license, the subject matter of the license, or the premises
occupied.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Upon conviction of a licensee for violation of any federal, state or
municipal law or ordinance involving the creation of a nuisance, a breach of
the peace, interference with the rights of property owners, or any other
offense constituting a threat to the public health, safety, morals or general
welfare of the public.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Failure of the licensee to pay any fine or penalty owing to the
city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Refusal to permit an inspection or investigation or any interference
with a duly authorized city officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections or investigations, as provided in this
chapter. (2008 Code)
3-1-12: APPEALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the city to
issue a license or by the revocation of a license shall have the right to
appeal the city's decision to the city council. Such appeal shall be requested
by submitting a written request to the city administrator within ten (10) days
of the action of the city which is appealed.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â City Council Consideration: The city council shall consider the appeal
at its next regularly scheduled meeting, at which time the applicant shall be
entitled to present his appeal orally or in writing. The city council shall act
on the appeal within seven (7) days of the hearing and shall either uphold the
action of the city or shall direct the issuance of a license which the city has
denied or the reissuance of a license which the city had revoked. (2008 Code)
3-1-13: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be subject to penalty
as provided in section 1-4A-1 of this code. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 2
INTOXICATING LIQUORS AND 3.2 PERCENT MALT LIQUOR
SECTION:
3-2-1: State Laws Adopted; City May Be More Restrictive
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: City License And State Permit Required
3-2-4: Types Of Licenses
3-2-5: Number Of Licenses
3-2-6: Ineligibility For License; Restrictions On Issuance
3-2-7: Application For License
3-2-8: Renewal Applications
3-2-9: Transfer Of License
3-2-10: Proof Of Financial Responsibility
3-2-11: Investigation Of Applicants; Fees
3-2-12: Issuance Or Denial Of License
3-2-13: License Fees
3-2-14: Term And Expiration Of License
3-2-15: Conditions Of License
3-2-16: Hours And Days Of Sales; Consumption And Presence On Premises
3-2-17: Minors
3-2-18: Sales And Consumption In Public
3-2-19: Nudity Prohibited
3-2-20: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-2-21: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
3-2-1: STATE LAWS ADOPTED; CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The provisions of Minnesota statutes chapter 340A, as they may be
amended from time to time, with reference to the definitions of terms,
conditions of operation, restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to
sales and hours of sales, and all other matters pertaining to the retail sale,
distribution, and consumption of intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt
liquor are hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this chapter as
if set out in full. It is the intention of the city council that all future
amendments to Minnesota statutes chapter 340A are hereby adopted by reference
or referenced as if they had been in existence at the effective date hereof.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The council is authorized by the provisions of Minnesota statutes
section 340A.509, as it may be amended from time to time, to impose, and has
imposed in this chapter, additional restrictions on the sale and possession of
alcoholic beverages within its limits beyond those contained in Minnesota
statutes chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 126, 4-11-
2005)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions contained in Minnesota statutes section
340A.101, as it may be amended from time to time, the following terms are
defined for purposes of this chapter:
LIQUOR: Without modification by the words "intoxicating" or "3.2 percent malt",
includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor.
RESTAURANT: An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a "restaurant", as
defined by this paragraph, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by Minnesota statutes section 157.16, as it may be amended from
time to time, and meet the definition of either a "small establishment",
"medium establishment" or "large establishment" as defined in Minnesota
statutes section 157.16, subdivision 3d, as it may be amended from time to
time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that receives heat
treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is heated and
served shall not be considered to be a "restaurant" for purposes of this
chapter unless it meets the said definitions of "small establishment", "medium
establishment" or "large establishment". (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
3-2-3: CITY LICENSE AND STATE PERMIT REQUIRED:
No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless said person has a license to sell on-sale, and a permit from
the state commissioner of public safety under the provisions of Minnesota
statutes section 340A.414, as it may be amended from time to time, which has
been approved by the city council, and no person shall consume liquor in any
such place unless so licensed and permitted. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005; amd. 2008
Code)
3-2-4: TYPES OF LICENSES:
The types of intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses to be
issued in the city are as follows: (2008 Code)
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â 3.2 percent malt liquor on-sale license, which may be issued only to
restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers and establishments used exclusively
for the sale of 3.2 percent malt liquor with the incidental sale of tobacco and
soft drinks.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â 3.2 percent malt liquor off-sale license.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Temporary 3.2 percent malt liquor license which may be issued only to a
club or charitable, religious or nonprofit organization.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â On-sale intoxicating liquor license, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by Minnesota statutes section 340A.101, as
it may be amended from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants,
bowling centers, clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and
exclusive liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of
the state commissioner of public safety. The fee for club licenses established
by the council under section 3-2-13 of this chapter shall not exceed the
amounts provided for in Minnesota statutes section 340A.408, subdivision 2(b),
as it may be amended from time to time. The council may, in its sound
discretion, authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor
off the licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under
the provisions of Minnesota statutes section 340A.404, subdivision 4(b), as it
may be amended from time to time. The council may, in its sound discretion,
authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the
licensed premises at any convention, banquet, conference, meeting or social
affair conducted on the premises of a sporting event, convention, or cultural
facility owned by the city, under the provisions of Minnesota statutes section
340A.404, subdivision 4(a), as it may be amended from time to time. However,
the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor to any person
attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being held on the
premises. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor license, heretofore being authorized
by voter approval at a general election as provided by Minnesota statutes
section 340A.504, subdivision 3. Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses
may be issued only to a "restaurant", as defined in section 3-2-2 of this
chapter, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at
least thirty (30) persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license,
and which serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The
maximum fee for this license, which shall be established by the council under
the provisions of section 3-2-13 of this chapter, shall not exceed the maximum
amount provided by Minnesota statutes section 340A.504, subdivision 3(b), as it
may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the state commissioner of public safety, which may be issued only in connection
with a social event sponsored by a club or charitable, religious or other
nonprofit corporation that has existed for at least three (3) years. No license
shall be for longer than four (4) consecutive days, and the city shall issue no
more than twelve (12) days' worth of temporary licenses to any one organization
in one calendar year.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the state commissioner of
public safety to: restaurants that have facilities for seating at least twenty
five (25) guests at one time and which meet the criteria of Minnesota statutes
section 340A.404, subdivision 5, as it may be amended from time to time, and
which meet the definition of "restaurant" in section 3-2-2 of this chapter; and
to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in Minnesota
statutes section 340A.4011, subdivision 1, as it may be amended from time to
time. The fee for an on-sale wine license, established by the council under the
provisions of section 3-2-13 of this chapter, shall not exceed one-half (1/2)
of the license fee charged for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license. The
holder of an on-sale wine license who also holds an on-sale 3.2 percent malt
liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor with a content over 3.2
percent (strong beer) without an additional license. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â One day consumption and display permits, with the approval of the state
commissioner of public safety, to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with
a social activity in the city sponsored by the organization. Approval of the
issuance of a consumption and display permit by the state commissioner of
public safety is required. The maximum amount of the additional fee which may
be imposed by the council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of section 3-2-13 of this chapter shall not
exceed the maximum amount permitted by Minnesota statutes section 340A.414,
subdivision 6, as it may be amended from time to time.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Approval of the issuance of a two o'clock (2:00) A.M. closing permit by
the state commissioner of public safety is required. An additional fee may be
imposed by the council from a current license holder who has been issued a two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. closing permit under the provisions of section 3-2-13 of
this chapter. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005; amd. 2008 Code)
3-2-5: NUMBER OF LICENSES:
State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of licenses which were issued as of the effective date
hereof, even if a larger number of licenses is authorized by law or election.
The city council, in its sound discretion, may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by Minnesota statutes chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If
a larger number of licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a
referendum held under the provisions of Minnesota statutes section 340A.413,
subdivision 3, as it may be amended from time to time, but not all of them have
been issued, the larger number of licenses is no longer in effect until the
council, by ordinance, determines that any or all of the licenses may be
issued. The council is not required to issue the full number of licenses that
it has available. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
3-2-6: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE; RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued within
the city to any one person.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises on
which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges or other financial
claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible for
a license under state law.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â No license shall be granted within five hundred feet (500') of any
school or church. The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the
church to the closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor
is to be sold. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
3-2-7: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall be on a
form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of the
applicant, the applicant's age, representations as to the applicant's
character, with references as the council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is the owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in
that business at that place, and other information as the council may require
from time to time.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall be in
the form prescribed by the state commissioner of public safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â An application for a club license shall include the name of the club,
date the club was incorporated, a sworn statement that the club has been in
existence for more than three (3) years, and the number of members.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â No person shall make a false statement in an application. (Ord. 126, 4-
11-2005)
3-2-8: RENEWAL APPLICATIONS:
At least ninety (90) days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed. (Ord. 126, 4-11-
2005)
3-2-9: TRANSFER OF LICENSE:
No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval of
the council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this chapter applying to applications for a license shall apply.
(Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
3-2-10: PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
Prior to the issuance of any license under this chapter, the applicant shall
demonstrate proof of financial responsibility, as defined in Minnesota statutes
section 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with regard to
liability under Minnesota statutes section 340A.801, as it may be amended from
time to time. This proof will be filed with the city and the state commissioner
of public safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to Minnesota statutes section
340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which
is required to be licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city
at all times effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for
revocation of the license. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
3-2-11: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANTS; FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Preliminary Background And Financial Investigation: On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant, or it may
contract with the state commissioner of public safety for the investigation.
The applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) which shall be in addition to any license fee. If the
cost of the preliminary investigation is less than five hundred dollars
($500.00), the unused balance shall be returned to the applicant. The results
of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the state commissioner of
public safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license
or an on-sale wine license.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Comprehensive Background And Financial Investigation: If the results of
a preliminary investigation warrant a comprehensive background and financial
investigation, in the sound discretion of the council, the council may either
conduct the investigation itself or contract with the state commissioner of
public safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for this
comprehensive background and financial investigation, to be paid by the
applicant, shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00), less any amount paid for
the initial investigation if the investigation is to be conducted within the
state, and ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00), less any amount paid for the
initial investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The
unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation,
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied. The results of the comprehensive
investigation shall be sent to the state commissioner of public safety if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Hearing And Issuance: The council shall investigate all facts set out
in the application and investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive
background and financial investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any
person to be heard for or against the granting of the license. After the
investigation and hearing, the council shall, in its sound discretion, grant or
deny the application. No license shall become effective until the proof of
financial security has been approved by the state commissioner of public
safety. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
3-2-12: ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
The council, in its sound discretion, may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
3-2-13: LICENSE FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by Minnesota statutes chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time
to time, for a liquor license.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The council may establish, from time to time by ordinance or
resolution, the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is authorized to issue.
The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the license and other costs
directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws and this chapter. No
liquor license fee shall be increased without providing mailed notice of a
hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees at least thirty (30)
days before the hearing.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The fees for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only if
authorized by Minnesota statutes section 340A.408, subdivision 5. (Ord. 126, 4-
11-2005)
3-2-14: TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSE:
Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on June 30 of each year unless another
date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same date.
Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and display
permits issued by the state commissioner of public safety and the accompanying
city consent to the permit shall expire on March 31 of each year. (Ord. 126, 4-
11-2005)
3-2-15: CONDITIONS OF LICENSE:
The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified in this section shall result in a suspension of the license until the
condition is met.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Training: Within ninety (90) days after employment, every person
selling or serving liquor in an establishment which has an on-sale license
shall receive training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers.
The training shall be provided by an organization approved by the council.
Proof of training shall be provided by the licensee.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Conduct Of Business: Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of
the place of business and the conditions of sobriety and order therein. The act
of any employee on the licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as
well, and the licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this
chapter and the law equally with the employee.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Compliance Checks: Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health
officer, city employee, or any other person designated by the city council to
conduct compliance checks and to otherwise enter, inspect and search the
premises of the licensee during business hours, and after business hours,
during the time when customers remain on the premises, without a warrant.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Display Of Liquor: No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the
public during hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Compliance With Financial Responsibility Requirements: Compliance with
financial responsibility requirements of state law and of this chapter is a
continuing condition of any license. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
3-2-16: HOURS AND DAYS OF SALES; CONSUMPTION AND PRESENCE ON PREMISES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by Minnesota
statutes section 340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor in an on-sale
licensed premises more than thirty (30) minutes after the time when a sale can
legally occur.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor to remain upon any
table, bar, stool or other place where customers are served more than thirty
(30) minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than thirty (30) minutes after the time when
a sale can legally occur.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
3-2-17: MINORS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Employment: No person under the age of eighteen (18) years shall be
employed in any rooms constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or
3.2 percent malt liquor is sold at retail on-sale; except, that persons under
the age of eighteen (18) may be employed as musicians or to perform the duties
of a bus person or dishwashing services in places defined as a restaurant,
hotel, motel or other multipurpose building serving food in rooms in which
intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquor is sold at retail on-sale.
(Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Presence On Premises: No person under the age of twenty one (21) years
may enter a licensed establishment; except, that persons eighteen (18),
nineteen (19) or twenty (20) may enter a licensed establishment to work,
consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or attend social
functions. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005; amd. 2008 Code)
3-2-18: SALES AND CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Public Ways And Vehicles: No person shall sell, serve or consume
intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquor in a public park, on any public
street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, in any automobile on a public street,
alley or highway, or in any public place other than on the premises of an
establishment licensed under this chapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if
one exists in the city, or where the consumption and display of liquor is
lawfully permitted. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Public Places: No intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquor shall
be sold, served, consumed or possessed at or in any theater, picture show,
ballpark, city park, cafe, restaurant, hotel dining room, soft drink parlor,
dance hall, city beach, or any public gathering for amusement or entertainment.
This subsection shall not apply to premises licensed for sales, possession and
consumption in accordance with the establishment's license. (Ord. 94, 8-5-1985;
amd. 2008 Code)
3-2-19: NUDITY PROHIBITED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Findings And Purpose: The city council finds that it is in the best
interests of the public health, safety and general welfare of the people of the
city that nudity is prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of
any establishment licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist
the owners, operators and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons
and the public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity and sex. The council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault and disorderly conduct. The council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing standards of the
city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prohibition: It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any
person or persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or
her buttocks, anus, breasts and genitals covered with a nontransparent
material. It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the
person does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts and genitals covered
with a nontransparent material.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Violations; Penalties: A violation of this section is a misdemeanor,
punishable as provided by law, and is justification for revocation or
suspension of any liquor, wine or 3.2 percent malt liquor license or the
imposition of a civil penalty under the provisions of subsection
3-2-21B of this chapter. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
3-2-20: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authority And Hearing: The council shall either suspend for a period
not to exceed sixty (60) days or revoke any liquor license upon finding that
the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable statute, regulation or
provision of this chapter relating to liquor, as provided in subsection B of
this section. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the administrative procedures act,
Minnesota statutes sections 14.57 to 14.69, as it may be amended from time to
time. The council may act as the hearing body under that act, or it may
contract with the state office of hearing examiners for a hearing officer.
(Ord. 126, 4-11-2005; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Time Periods:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or Minnesota statutes chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to
time, or any rules promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from
time to time. Revocations shall occur within sixty (60) days following a
violation for which the revocation is imposed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, or sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2 percent malt liquor, the
license shall be revoked.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The license shall be suspended by the council after a finding
under subsection A of this section that the licensee has failed to comply with
any applicable statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the
minimum periods as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â For the first violation within any three (3) year period, at
least one day's suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which
may be imposed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â For a second violation within any three (3) year period, at
least three (3) consecutive days' suspension in addition to any criminal or
civil penalties which may be imposed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â For the third violation within any three (3) year period, at
least seven (7) consecutive days' suspension in addition to any criminal or
civil penalties which may be imposed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â For a fourth violation within any three (3) year period, the
license shall be revoked.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Lapse Of Financial Responsibility: Lapse of required proof of financial
responsibility shall effect an immediate suspension of any license issued
pursuant to this chapter or state law without further action of the council.
Notice of cancellation or lapse of a current liquor liability policy shall also
constitute notice to the licensee of the impending suspension of the license.
The holder of a license who has received notice of lapse of required insurance
or of suspension or revocation of a license may request a hearing thereon, and
if a request is made in writing to the clerk, a hearing before the council
shall be granted within ten (10) days. Any suspension under this subsection
shall continue until the council determines that the financial responsibility
requirements of state law and this chapter have again been met.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Imposition Of Penalties: The provisions of section
3-2-21 of this chapter pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in
addition to or in lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
(Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
3-2-21: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or Minnesota
statutes chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any rules
promulgated under that chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor or as otherwise
provided by Minnesota statutes chapter 340A and, upon conviction, shall be
punished as provided by law.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The council shall impose a civil penalty of up to two thousand dollars
($2,000.00) for each violation of Minnesota statutes chapter 340A and of this
chapter as provided by the minimum schedule of presumptive civil penalties.
These civil penalties shall be in addition to any criminal penalties imposed
under subsection A of this section or any suspension or revocation imposed
under section
3-2-20 of this chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not
required in order for the council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under
the administrative procedures act, Minnesota statutes sections 14.57 to 14.69,
as it may be amended from time to time, is not required before the penalty is
imposed, but the council shall hold a hearing on the proposed violation and the
proposed penalty and hear any person who wishes to speak. Nonpayment of the
penalty is grounds for suspension or revocation of the license. The following
is the minimum schedule of presumptive civil penalties in addition to any
suspensions which must be imposed unless the license is revoked:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â For the first violation within any three (3) year period, five
hundred dollars ($500.00).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â For the second violation within any three (3) year period, one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â For the third and subsequent violations within any three (3) year
period, two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for each violation.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The term "violation", as used in this section and in section
3-2-20 of this chapter, includes any and all violations of the provisions of
this chapter, or of Minnesota statutes chapter 340A, as it may be amended from
time to time, or any rules promulgated under that chapter, as they may be
amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be determined on the
basis of the history of violations for the preceding three (3) year period.
(Ord. 126, 4-11-2005; amd. 2008 Code; Ord. 174, 1-22-2025)
ARTICLE A. MUNICIPAL LIQUOR STORES
SECTION:
3-2A-1: Application Of Provisions; Existing Stores
3-2A-2: Location
3-2A-3: Operation
3-2A-4: Proof Of Financial Responsibility
3-2A-1: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS; EXISTING STORES:
The municipal liquor store is continued. Except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, no intoxicating liquor may be sold at retail elsewhere in the city.
(Ord. 126, 4-11-2005; amd. 2008 Code)
3-2A-2: LOCATION:
The municipal liquor store shall be located at a suitable place in the city as
the council determines by motion. However, no premises upon which taxes,
assessments or other public charges are delinquent shall be leased for
municipal liquor store purposes. The council shall have the right to establish
additional off-sale and on-sale stores at other locations as it may, from time
to time, by motion, determine. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
3-2A-3: OPERATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Manager: The municipal liquor store shall be in the immediate charge of
a liquor store manager selected by the council and paid compensation as is
fixed by the council. The manager shall not be a person who would be prohibited
by law or any provision of this chapter from being eligible for an intoxicating
liquor license. The manager shall be covered by the league's bond coverage for
the faithful discharge of duties. The manager shall operate the municipal
liquor store under the council's direction and shall perform those duties in
connection with the store as may be established by the council. The manager
shall be responsible to the council for the conduct of the store in full
compliance with this chapter and with the laws relating to the sale of
intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Other Employees: The council may also appoint additional employees as
may be required and shall fix their compensation. All employees, including the
manager, shall hold their positions at the pleasure of the council. No person
under the age of eighteen (18) shall be employed in the store. The council may
require the employees to furnish surety bonds conditioned for the faithful
discharge of their duties in a sum as specified by the council. The premium on
the bond may be paid by the city or the employees, as the council determines.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Municipal Liquor Store Fund: All of the revenues received from the
operation of a municipal liquor store shall be deposited in a municipal liquor
store fund from which all ordinary operating expenses, including compensation
of the manager and employees, shall be paid. Surpluses accumulating in the fund
may be transferred to the general fund of the city or to any other appropriate
fund of the city by resolution of the council, and may be expended for any
municipal purpose. The handling of municipal liquor store receipts and
disbursements shall comply with the procedure prescribed by law and charter for
the receipts and disbursements of city funds generally.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Financial Statement: The council shall provide, within ninety (90) days
following the end of the calendar year, for publication, a balance sheet using
generally accepted accounting procedures and a statement of operations of the
municipal liquor store for that year. The balance sheet and statement shall be
published in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota statutes section
471.6985, as it may be amended from time to time.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Hours Of Operation: The hours during which the sale of intoxicating
liquor may be sold shall be as provided in section 3-2-16 of this chapter or at
a time more restrictive as set by the city council. No person, other than the
manager or a store employee, may remain in the municipal liquor store longer
than one-half (1/2) hour after the time when the sale of intoxicating liquors
must cease. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
3-2A-4: PROOF OF FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY:
The city shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility required by
licensees of retail intoxicating liquor establishments under the provisions of
Minnesota statutes section 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
CHAPTER 3
COMMERCIAL AMUSEMENTS; ENTERTAINMENTS
SECTION:
3-3-1: License Required
3-3-2: Notice To Council Prior To Event
3-3-3: Indemnity, Insurance And Bond
3-3-4: Issuance Of License; Conditions
3-3-5: Exemptions
3-3-6: Penalty
3-3-1: LICENSE REQUIRED:
Each person desiring to conduct, stage or give a circus, carnival, theatrical
exhibition, public show, athletic game or other entertainment shall first
obtain a license and pay the license fee or fees as established by resolution
of the city council from time to time. (2008 Code)
3-3-2: NOTICE TO COUNCIL PRIOR TO EVENT:
In addition to any other requirements, the applicant for a license shall give
at least two (2) weeks' notice prior to the council meeting that is immediately
before the event, in writing, to the city administrator or other authorized
official, stating the dates of the performances and the location at which the
performances are to be presented. (2008 Code)
3-3-3: INDEMNITY, INSURANCE AND BOND:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In the case municipal grounds are being used, the city shall require a
liability waiver that includes indemnification and hold harmless consideration,
plus liability insurance at an amount to be determined by the city council.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â At the time application for a license is made, where use of municipal
grounds is contemplated, the applicant shall deposit with the city
administrator, or other designated municipal official, a cash bond in an amount
to be determined by the city council, conditioned upon the restoration and
cleaning up of the grounds in a manner satisfactory to the city administrator.
In the event the grounds are restored and cleaned up properly following the
exhibition, the deposit shall be returned; otherwise, the same shall be
forfeited to the city to the extent of actual costs to the city for restoration
and cleaning up of the grounds. No licensee shall fail to restore or clean up
the grounds upon which the circus, carnival or other entertainment has taken
place. (2008 Code)
3-3-4: ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; CONDITIONS:
The city council shall give consent to the issuance of the license if: the
location is deemed suitable for the purpose; that it will properly accommodate
the patrons; that the nature of the performance or exhibition does not pose a
threat to the health, safety or general welfare of the public; and that the use
of the location will not create too great a burden upon the police department
or the fire department. (Ord. 126, 4-11-2005)
3-3-5: EXEMPTIONS:
Local school entertainment, charitable organizations, lecture courses, and
lectures on historic, literary or scientific subjects are not subject to the
provisions of this chapter; provided, that the entertainment is not for profit
and city property is not used. (2008 Code)
3-3-6: PENALTY:
Violation of this chapter shall subject the violator to the penalty provided in
section 1-4A-1 of this code. (2008 Code)
FR929Â Â Â  3-4
CHAPTER 4
LAWFUL GAMBLING
SECTION:
3-4-1: Purpose
3-4-2: State Law Adopted; City May Be More Restrictive
3-4-3: Definitions
3-4-4: Application Of Provisions
3-4-5: Lawful Gambling Permitted; Council Approval Required
3-4-6: State Premises Permit
3-4-7: Local Permit
3-4-8: Display Of Permits
3-4-9: Notice Of Changes To Applications
3-4-10: Records And Reports Required
3-4-11: Hours Of Operation
3-4-12: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalty
3-4-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the city, to
prevent its commercialization, to ensure the integrity of operations, and to
provide for the use of net profits only for lawful purposes. (Ord. 138, 2-11-
2008)
3-4-2: STATE LAW ADOPTED; CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE:
The provisions of Minnesota statutes chapter 349, as they may be amended from
time to time, with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of
operation, provisions relating to sales, and all other matters pertaining to
lawful gambling are hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this
chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of the council that all
future amendments of Minnesota statutes chapter 349 are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the effective date
hereof. The council is authorized by the provisions of Minnesota statutes
section 349.213, as it may be amended from time to time, to impose, and has
imposed in this chapter, additional restrictions on gambling within its limits
beyond those contained in Minnesota statutes chapter 349, as it may be amended
from time to time. (Ord. 138, 2-11-2008)
3-4-3: DEFINITIONS:
In addition to the definitions contained in Minnesota statutes section 349.12,
as it may be amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for
purposes of this chapter:
BOARD: The state of Minnesota gambling control board.
CITY: The city of Frazee.
COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Frazee.
LICENSED ORGANIZATION: An organization licensed by the board.
LOCAL PERMIT: A permit issued by the city. (Ord. 138, 2-11-2008; amd. 2008
Code)
3-4-4: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
This chapter shall be construed to regulate all forms of lawful gambling within
the city except:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Bingo conducted within a nursing home or a senior citizen housing
project or by a senior citizen organization if the prizes for a single bingo
game do not exceed ten dollars ($10.00), total prizes awarded at a single bingo
occasion do not exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00), no more than two (2)
bingo occasions are held by the organization or at the facility each week, only
members of the organization or residents of the nursing home or housing project
are allowed to play in a bingo game, no compensation is paid for any persons
who conduct the bingo, and a manager is appointed to supervise the bingo.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Raffles, if the value of all prizes awarded by the organization in a
calendar year does not exceed one thousand five hundred dollars ($1,500.00).
(Ord. 138, 2-11-2008)
3-4-5: LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED; COUNCIL APPROVAL REQUIRED:
Lawful gambling is permitted within the city provided: it is conducted in
accordance with Minnesota statutes sections 609.75 to 609.763, inclusive, as
they may be amended from time to time; Minnesota statutes sections 349.11 to
349.23, inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time; and this chapter.
Lawful gambling authorized by Minnesota statutes sections 349.11 to 349.23,
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, shall not be conducted
unless approved by the council, subject to the provisions of this chapter and
state law. (Ord. 138, 2-11-2008)
3-4-6: STATE PREMISES PERMIT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Application For Permit: Any organization seeking to obtain a premises
permit or renewal of a premises permit from the board shall file with the city
clerk-treasurer an executed, complete duplicate application, together with all
exhibits and documents accompanying the application as will be filed with the
board.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Police Chief Review And Recommendation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Upon receipt of an application for issuance or renewal of a premises
permit, the city clerk-treasurer shall transmit the application to the chief of
police for review and recommendation. The chief of police shall investigate the
matter and make the review and recommendation to the city council as soon as
possible, but in no event later than forty five (45) days following receipt of
the notification by the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Organizations applying for a state issued premises permit shall pay
the city a twenty five dollar ($25.00) investigation fee. This fee shall be
refunded if the application is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Council Consideration; Approval Or Denial Of Permit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
council will consider the recommendation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The council shall receive the police chief's report and consider the
application within forty five (45) days of the date the application was
submitted to the city clerk- treasurer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The council shall, by resolution, approve or disapprove the
application within sixty (60) days of receipt of the application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â a. The council shall deny an application for issuance or renewal of
a premises permit for any of the following reasons:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute,
state rule, or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three (3)
years.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Violation by the on-sale establishment, or organization
leasing its premises for gambling, of any state statute, state rule, or city
ordinance relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not
limited to, laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled
substances, suppression of vice and protection of public safety within the last
three (3) years.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Lawful gambling would be conducted at premises other than
those for which an on-sale liquor license has been issued.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Lawful gambling would be conducted at more than one premises
within the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â An organization would be permitted to conduct lawful gambling
activities at more than one premises in the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â More than one licensed organization would be permitted to
conduct lawful gambling activities at one premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Failure of the applicant to pay the investigation fee
provided by subsection B2 of this section within the prescribed time limit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to
health, safety, and welfare of the community.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Otherwise, the council shall pass a resolution approving the
application. (Ord. 138, 2-11-2008)
3-4-7: LOCAL PERMIT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Required: No organization shall conduct lawful gambling excluded
or exempted from state licensure requirements by Minnesota statutes section
349.166, as it may be amended from time to time, without a valid local permit.
This subsection shall not apply to lawful gambling exempted from local
regulation by section
3-4-4 of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application For Permit: Applications for issuance or renewal of a local
permit shall be on a form prescribed by the city. The application shall contain
the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Name and address of the organization requesting the permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Name and address of the officers and person accounting for receipts,
expenses, and profits for the event.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Dates of gambling occasion for which permit is requested.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Address of premises where event will occur.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Copy of rental or leasing arrangement, if any, connected with the
event including rental to be charged to organization.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Estimated value of prizes to be awarded.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Permit Fee: The fee for a local permit shall be listed in the fee
schedule. The fee shall be submitted with the application for a local permit.
This fee shall be refunded if the application is withdrawn before the
investigation is commenced.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Police Chief Review And Recommendation: Upon receipt of an application
for issuance or renewal of a local permit, the city clerk-treasurer shall
transmit the notification to the chief of police for review and recommendation.
The chief of police shall investigate the matter and make review and
recommendation to the city council as soon as possible, but in no event later
than forty five (45) days following receipt of the notification by the city.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Council Consideration; Approval Or Denial Of Permit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
council will consider the recommendation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The council shall receive the public safety department report and
consider the application within forty five (45) days of the date the
application was submitted to the city clerk-treasurer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â a. The council shall deny an application for issuance or renewal of
a premises permit for any of the following reasons:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute,
state rule, or city ordinance relating to gambling within the last three (3)
years.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Violation by the on-sale establishment, or organization
leasing its premises for gambling, of any state statute, state rule, or city
ordinance relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not
limited to, laws relating to the operation of the establishment and laws
relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances, suppression
of vice and protection of public safety within the last three (3) years.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The organization has not been in existence in the city for at
least three (3) consecutive years prior to the date of application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The organization does not have at least fifteen (15) active
members.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not take place at a
premises the organization owns or rents.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will not be limited to a
premises for which an on-sale liquor license has been issued.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Exempted or excluded lawful gambling will occur at more than
one premises within the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â An organization will have a permit to conduct exempted or
excluded lawful gambling activities on more than one premises in the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â More than one licensed, qualified organization will be
conducting exempted or excluded lawful gambling activities at any one premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (10)Â Â Â Failure of the applicant to pay the permit fee provided by
subsection C of this section within the prescribed time limit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (11)Â Â Â Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to
health, safety, and welfare of the community.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Otherwise, the council shall approve the application.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Term Of Permit: Local permits shall be valid for one year after the
date of issuance unless suspended or revoked.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Revocation Or Suspension Of Permit; Hearing Required:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A local permit may be revoked or temporarily suspended for a
violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state rule, or
city ordinance relating to gambling.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A local permit shall not be revoked or suspended until notice and an
opportunity for a hearing have first been given to the permitted person. The
notice shall be personally served and shall state the provision reasonably
believed to be violated. The notice shall also state that the permitted person
may demand a hearing on the matter, in which case, the permit will not be
suspended until after the hearing is held. If the permitted person requests a
hearing, the council shall hold a hearing on the matter at least one week after
the date on which the request is made. If, as a result of the hearing, the
council finds that an ordinance violation exists, then the council may suspend
or revoke the permit. (Ord. 138, 2-11-2008)
3-4-8: DISPLAY OF PERMITS:
All permits issued under state law or this chapter shall be prominently
displayed during the permit year at the premises where gambling is conducted.
(Ord. 138, 2-11-2008)
3-4-9: NOTICE OF CHANGES TO APPLICATIONS:
An organization holding a state issued premises permit or a local permit shall
notify the city within ten (10) days in writing whenever any material change is
made in the information submitted on the application. (Ord. 138, 2-11-2008)
3-4-10: RECORDS AND REPORTS REQUIRED:
Organizations conducting lawful gambling shall file with the city clerk-
treasurer one copy of all records and reports required to be filed with the
board, pursuant to Minnesota statutes chapter 349, as it may be amended from
time to time, and rules adopted pursuant thereto, as they may be amended from
time to time. The records and reports shall be filed on or before the day they
are required to be filed with the board. (Ord. 138, 2-11-2008; amd. 2008 Code)
3-4-11: HOURS OF OPERATION:
Lawful gambling shall not be conducted between one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and
eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. on any day of the week. (Ord. 138, 2-11-2008)
3-4-12: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTY:
Any person who violates:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any provision of this chapter;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Minnesota statutes sections 609.75 to 609.763, inclusive, as they may
be amended from time to time; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Minnesota statutes sections 349.11 to 349.21, as they may be amended
from time to time, or any rules promulgated under those sections, as they may
be amended from time to time,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to the penalty provided
in section 1-4A-1 of this code. In addition, violations shall be reported to
the board, and recommendation shall be made for suspension, revocation, or
cancellation of an organization's permit. (Ord. 138, 2-11-2008)
CHAPTER 5
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Licenses Required; Exemptions
3-5-3: License Required For Each Company Or Individual
3-5-4: Ineligibility For License
3-5-5: Application For License
3-5-6: License Fee; Issuance Or Denial Of License
3-5-7: Terms Of Licenses
3-5-8: Nontransferability Of License
3-5-9: Prohibited Activities
3-5-10: Vehicle Requirements
3-5-11: Uninvited Peddling Or Soliciting On Private Property; Placard
3-5-12: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
PEDDLER: A person who goes from house to house, door to door, business to
business, street to street, or any other type of place to place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting. The term "peddler" shall mean the same as the term
"hawker".
SOLICITOR: A person who goes from house to house, door to door, business to
business, street to street, or any other type of place to place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this definition if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed herein.
TEMPORARY SALE: A sale conducted for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days or
less on a sidewalk, parking lot or open space by merchants who occupy principal
buildings adjacent to the area to be utilized for a temporary sale.
TRANSIENT MERCHANT: A person who temporarily sets up business out of a vehicle,
trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty storefront for the
purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to sell, and
delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal property and
who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for more than
fourteen (14) consecutive days. (2008 Code)
3-5-2: LICENSES REQUIRED; EXEMPTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Peddlers, Solicitors And Transient Merchants: Except as provided for by
this chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant without first having obtained a license from the city.
Any peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant who is subject to regulation or
licensing by agencies of the state or federal government, and where such
regulation or licensing preempts local regulations, shall be exempt from the
restrictions of this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Temporary Sales: It shall be unlawful to conduct a temporary sale
unless a license is obtained for this purpose from the city. Conducting
temporary sales for five (5) or fewer days or within fully enclosed shopping
malls or buildings shall not require a license.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Other Exemptions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â For the purpose of this chapter, the terms "peddler", "solicitor",
and "transient merchant" shall not apply to any person selling or attempting to
sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal
property to a retailer of the items being sold by the wholesaler. The terms
also shall not apply to any person who makes initial contacts with other people
for the purpose of establishing or trying to establish a regular customer
delivery route for the delivery of perishable food and dairy products such as
baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any person making deliveries of
perishable food and dairy products to the customers on his or her established
regular delivery route.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
"garage sales", "rummage sales", or "estate sales", as well as those persons
participating in an organized multiperson bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of "peddler", "solicitor", and "transient
merchant", as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed
auctioneer, or any officer of the court conducting a court ordered sale.
Exemption from these definitions, for the scope of this chapter, shall not
excuse any person from complying with any other applicable statutory provision
or local ordinance. (2008 Code)
3-5-3: LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH COMPANY OR INDIVIDUAL:
A license shall be obtained by each company, transient merchant, solicitor, or
peddler. The application shall indicate both the name of the individual,
transient merchant or solicitor and the firm or corporation which the applicant
represents, if any. (2008 Code)
3-5-4: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The conviction of the applicant within the past five (5) years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include, but not be limited to,
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The revocation within the past five (5) years of any license issued to
the applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of a
bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence of
more than three (3) complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the attorney general's office, or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding five (5) years. (2008 Code)
3-5-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Application for a city license to conduct business as a peddler,
solicitor, temporary sale, or transient merchant shall be made at least
fourteen (14) days before the applicant desires to begin conducting business.
Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the city council
and available from the office of the city administrator. All applications shall
be signed by the applicant and shall include the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Applicant's full legal name, permanent address and local address
including the location where a temporary sale or a transient merchant intends
to set up business, if any, and any and all business related telephone numbers
of the applicant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If the applicant is employed, the name and address of his/her
employer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The names and addresses of the officers or directors of the firm or
organization by which the applicant is employed or which he/she is
representing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The period of time within which the applicant intends to conduct
activities, which includes the dates and times of day.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The source of supply of the goods or property proposed to be sold
or, in the case of goods or property to be sold by solicitation of orders,
where such goods or products are located at the time the information is
submitted to the city administrator and the proposed method of delivery.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five (5) years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor
for violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other
than traffic offenses.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â A list of the three (3) most recent locations where the applicant
has conducted business as a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â If the applicant is a nonprofit, religious, charitable, patriotic or
philanthropic organization, a copy of the organization's tax exempt status.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â If the applicant is conducting business on another's property,
written consent from the person who owns the area to be utilized.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â A scale drawing of a temporary sale area, showing all proposed
temporary structures, such as tents, booths, buildings, signs and lights, and
other details as may be determined by the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â If products are to be sold from a motor vehicle, the application
shall contain a description of the vehicle, including serial number, license
number, make and model, and shall also contain the name of the insurer
providing liability coverage on the vehicle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable form of
identification.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Every license holder shall promptly submit to the city any changes in
the foregoing data. (2008 Code)
3-5-6: LICENSE FEE; ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Fee Established; Issuance Of License: Upon proper application and
payment of a fee established by city council resolution, the city
administrator, after a review and investigation regarding the contents of the
application, must issue the license within ten (10) days unless there exist
grounds for denying the license under section 3-5-4 of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notice Of Approval Or Denial; Hearing: The applicant shall be notified
within the ten (10) day period of the decision to issue or deny such a license.
The applicant, if the license is denied, may request, within fourteen (14) days
after denial, a hearing before the city council to reconsider the application
at its next regularly scheduled meeting.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Exemptions From Fee: Religious, charitable, patriotic or philanthropic
organizations shall be exempt from payment of the fee provided. A copy of a
current tax exempt status for the applying organization shall be prima facie
evidence of the exemption from the payment of the fee. (2008 Code)
3-5-7: TERMS OF LICENSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Peddler, Solicitor Or Transient Merchant License: No license shall be
issued to a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant for any period of time in
excess of one year.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Temporary Sales: A temporary sale may be conducted for a period not to
exceed sixty (60) days. (2008 Code)
3-5-8: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person. (2008
Code)
3-5-9: PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES:
No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right of way.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No sales of goods, wares or merchandise may be made from a stationary
location stand or vehicle on public streets or public street rights of way.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Conducting business before eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. or after nine
o'clock (9:00) P.M.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Failing to provide proof of license and identification when requested,
or using the license of another person.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license to that person.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating or abusive. (2008 Code)
3-5-10: VEHICLE REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Insurance: Every applicant who intends to vend products from a motor
vehicle shall maintain liability insurance of a minimum of seven hundred fifty
thousand dollars ($750,000.00) combined single limit liability coverage for
injury to or death of any one person or damage to or destruction of property in
any one accident.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Parking: Vehicles must be parked at the curb while engaging in vending
operations, and vending shall be done only at the curbside of the vehicle.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Equipment: Each vehicle must be equipped with flashing lights on both
the front and rear of the vehicle, clearly visible to oncoming cars in full
daylight. (2008 Code)
3-5-11: UNINVITED PEDDLING OR SOLICITING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY; PLACARD:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any resident of the city who wishes to exclude peddlers or solicitors
from premises occupied by him/her may place upon or near the usual entrance to
such premises a printed placard or sign bearing the following notice: "Peddlers
and Solicitors Prohibited". Such placard shall be at least three and three-
fourths inches (33/4") long and three and three-fourths inches (33/4") wide,
and the printing thereon shall not be smaller than forty eight (48) point type.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall enter in or upon any
premises or attempt to enter in or upon any premises where such placard or sign
is displayed.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No person, other than the person occupying such premises, shall remove,
injure or deface such placard or sign. (2008 Code)
3-5-12: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Causes: Any license issued under this chapter may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the city council for violation of any of the
following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statements on the application
form.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could have
been denied under section 3-5-4 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Violation of any provision of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Multiple Persons Under One License: The suspension or revocation of any
license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Notice: Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or, if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Public Hearing: Upon receiving the notice provided in subsection C of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the city administrator within fourteen
(14) days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with the
suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall be
considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be
scheduled at the next regular meeting of the city council. Within three (3)
regular business days of the hearing, the city council shall notify the
licensee of its decision.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Emergency: If, in the discretion of the city council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the city council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in subsection C of this section.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Appeals: Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 6
TOBACCO PRODUCTS SALES
SECTION:
3-6-1: Definitions
3-6-2: License
3-6-3: Fees
3-6-4: Basis For Denial Of License
3-6-5: Prohibited Acts
3-6-6: Responsibility
3-6-7: Compliance Checks And Inspections
3-6-8: Other Prohibited Acts
3-6-9: Exceptions And Defenses
3-6-10: Violations And Penalties
3-6-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
are given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this chapter,
the following definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning:
CHILD-RESISTANT PACKAGING: Packaging that meets the definition set forth in
Code of Federal Regulations, title 16, section 1700.15(b), as in effect on
January 1, 2015, and was tested in accordance with the method described in Code
of Federal Regulations, title 16, section 1700.20, as in effect on January 1,
2015.
CIGAR: Any roll of tobacco that is wrapped in tobacco leaf or in any other
substance containing tobacco, with or without a tip or mouthpiece, which is not
a cigarette as defined in Minn. Stat. Â§ 297F.01, subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS: The system the City uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying with the
requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS involve the use of persons
under the age of twenty one (21) who purchase or attempt to purchase licensed
products. COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by the City or other units of
government for educational, research, and training purposes or for
investigating or enforcing federal, state, or local laws and regulations
relating to licensed products.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE: Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through the inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as a-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes, vape pens,
mods, tank systems, or under any other product name or descriptor. ELECTRONIC
DELIVERY DEVICE includes any component part of a product, whether or not
marketed or sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE does not include any
product that has been approved or certified by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product, as a tobacco-dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is marketed and sold for such an
approved purpose.
INDOOR AREA: All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by walls,
doorways, or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than fifty (50%)
percent of the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the
perimeter of the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or
other physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent. A standard window
screen (0.011 gauge with an 18 by 16 mesh count) is not considered a wall.
LICENSED PRODUCTS: The term that collectively refers to any tobacco, tobacco-
related device, electronic delivery device, or nicotine or lobelia delivery
product.
LOOSIES: The common term used to refer to single cigarettes, cigars, or and any
other licensed product that have been removed from their original retail
packaging and offered for sale. LOOSIES does not include premium cigars that
are hand-constructed, have a wrapper made entirely from whole tobacco leaf, and
have a filler and binder made entirely of tobacco, except for adhesives or
other materials used to maintain size, texture, or flavor.
MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any form of business that is operated out of a
kiosk, truck, van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter
and not a fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure
authorized for sales transactions.
NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT: Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of such a
product, that is not tobacco or an electronic delivery device as defined in
this section. NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT does not include any product
that has been approved or otherwise certified for legal sale by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration as a tobacco-cessation product, a tobacco-dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely
for that approved purpose.
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: Any place of business where licensed products are
available for sale to the general public. The phrase includes but is not
limited to grocery stores, tobacco products shops, convenience stores, gasoline
service stations, bars, and restaurants.
SALE: Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
SELF-SERVICE DISPLAY: The open display of licensed products in any manner where
any person has access to the licensed products without the assistance or
intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee and where a physical
exchange of the licensed product from the licensee or the licensee's employee
to the customer is not needed in order to access the licensed products.
SMOKING: Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated cigar,
cigarette, or pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing, made, or
derived from nicotine, tobacco, marijuana, or other plant, whether natural or
synthetic, that is intended for inhalation. Smoking also includes carrying or
using an activated electronic delivery device.
TOBACCO: Any product containing, made, or derived from tobacco that is intended
for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled,
snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, or any component, part, or
accessory of a tobacco product including but not limited to cigarettes; cigars;
cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready rubbed, and
other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff flour; cavendish; plug and twist tobacco;
fine cut and other chewing tobaccos; shorts; refuse scraps, clippings, cuttings
and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco. TOBACCO does
not include any product that has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product, as a tobacco-dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely
for such an approved purpose.
TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICE: Any rolling papers, wraps, pipes, or other device
intentionally designed or intended to be used with tobacco products. TOBACCO-
RELATED DEVICE includes components of tobacco-related devices or tobacco
products, which may be marketed or sold separately. TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES may
or may not contain tobacco.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device that dispenses licensed products upon the insertion of money, tokens, or
other form of payment directly into the machine by the person seeking to
purchase the licensed product. (Ord. 155, 2-10-2020)
3-6-2: LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â License Required: No person shall sell or offer to sell any licensed
product without first having obtained a license to do so from the City.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Application: An application for a license to sell licensed products
must be made on a form provided by the City. The application must contain the
full name of the applicant, the applicant's residential and business addresses
and telephone numbers, the name of the business for which the license is
sought, and any additional information the City deems necessary. Upon receipt
of a completed application, the city clerk will forward the application to the
city council for action at its next regularly scheduled meeting. If the city
clerk determines that an application is incomplete, it will be returned to the
applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Action: The city council may approve or deny the application for a
license, or it may delay action for a reasonable period of time to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant deemed necessary. If the city
council approves the application, the city clerk will issue the license to the
applicant. If the city council denies the application, notice of the denial
will be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant's right to
appeal the decision.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Term: All licenses issued are valid for one (1) calendar year from the
date of issue.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Revocation Or Suspension: Any license issued may be suspended or
revoked following the procedures set forth in Section 3-6-10.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Transfers: All licenses issued are valid only on the premises for which
the license was issued and only for the person to whom the license was issued.
The transfer of any license to another location or person is prohibited.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Display: All licenses must be posted and displayed at all times in
plain view of the general public in the retail establishment.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Renewals: The renewal of a license issued under this chapter will be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal must be made at least thirty (30) days, but no more than sixty (60)
days, before the expiration of the current license.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Issuance As Privilege And Not A Right: The issuance of a license is a
privilege and does not entitle the license holder to an automatic renewal of
the license.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Smoking Prohibited: Smoking, including smoking for the purpose of the
sampling of licensed products, is prohibited within the indoor area of any
retail establishment licensed under this chapter.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Samples Prohibited: No person shall distribute samples of any licensed
product free of charge or at a nominal cost. (Ord. 155, 2-10-2020)
3-6-3: FEES:
No license will be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license fees
are paid in full. The fees will be established by the City's fee schedule and
may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 155, 2-10-2020)
3-6-4: BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license include, but
are not limited to, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The applicant is under twenty one (21) years of age.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The applicant has been convicted within the past five (5) years of
any violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to licensed products.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The applicant has had a license to sell licensed products suspended
or revoked within the preceding twelve (12) months of the date of application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The applicant fails to provide any of the information required on
the licensing application or provides false or misleading information.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The retail establishment for which the license is requested is a
moveable place of business. Only fixed-location businesses are eligible to be
licensed.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of any
particular ground for denial does not compel the City to deny the license.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it will be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this chapter. The City will provide the license holder with notice of the
revocation, along with information on the right to appeal. (Ord. 155, 2-10-
2020)
3-6-5: PROHIBITED ACTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In General: No person shall sell or offer to sell any licensed product:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â By means of any type of vending machine.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â By means of loosies.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the
intention of this provision to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes
or other products subject to this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â By means of self-service display. All licensed products must be
stored behind the sales counter, in a locked case, in a storage unit, or in
another area not freely accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling
licensed products at the time this chapter is adopted must comply with this
section within ninety (90) days of the effective date of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â By any other means, to any other person, on in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision, or
other regulation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Legal Age: No person shall sell any licensed product to any person
under the age of twenty one (21).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Age Verification: Licensees must verify by means of government-
issued photographic identification that the purchaser is at least twenty one
(21) years of age. Verification is not required for a person over the age of
thirty (30). That the person appeared to be thirty (30) years of age or older
does not constitute a defense to a violation of this subsection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Signage: Notice of the legal sales age and age verification
requirement must be posted prominently and in plain view at all times at each
location where licensed products are offered for sale. The required signage,
which will be provided to the licensee by the City, must be posted in a manner
that is clearly visible to anyone who is or is considering making a purchase.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Liquid Packaging: No person shall sell or offer to sell any liquid,
whether or not such liquid contains nicotine, which is intended for human
consumption and use in an electronic delivery device, in packaging that is not
child-resistant. Upon request by the City, a licensee must provide a copy of
the certificate of compliance or full laboratory testing report for the
packaging used. (Ord. 155, 2-10-2020)
3-6-6: RESPONSIBILITY:
All licensees are responsible for the actions of their employees in regard to
the sale, offer to sell, and furnishing of licensed products on the licensed
premises. The sale, offer to sell, or furnishing of any licensed product by an
employee shall be considered an act of the licensee. (Ord. 155, 2-10-2020)
3-6-7: COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS:
All licensed premises must be open to inspection by law enforcement or other
authorized city officials during regular business hours. From time to time, but
at least once per year, the City will conduct compliance checks. In accordance
with state law, the City will conduct at least one (1) compliance check that
involves the participation of two (2) persons: one person between the ages of
fifteen (15) and seventeen (17) and one (1) person between the ages of eighteen
(18) and twenty (20) to enter the licensed premises to attempt to purchase
licensed products. Prior written consent from a parent or guardian is required
for any person under the age of eighteen (18) to participate in a compliance
check. Persons used for the purpose of compliance checks will be supervised by
law enforcement or other designated personnel. (Ord. 155, 2-10-2020)
3-6-8: OTHER PROHIBITED ACTS:
Unless otherwise provided, the following act is an administrative violation of
this chapter:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Prohibited Furnishing Or Procurement: It is a violation of this chapter
for any person twenty one (21) years of age or older to purchase or otherwise
obtain any licensed product on behalf of a person under the age of twenty one
(21). It is also a violation for any person twenty one (21) years of age and
older to coerce or attempt to coerce a person under the age of twenty one (21)
to purchase or attempt to purchase any licensed product. (Ord. 155, 2-10-2020)
3-6-9: EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Religious, Spiritual, Or Cultural Ceremonies Or Practices: Nothing in
this chapter prevents the provision of tobacco or tobacco-related devices to
any person as part of an indigenous practice or a lawfully recognized
religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremony or practice.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Reasonable Reliance: It is an affirmative defense to a violation of
this chapter for a person to have reasonably relied on proof of age as
described by state law. (Ord. 155, 2-10-2020)
3-6-10: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Violations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Notice: A person violating this chapter may be issued, either
personally or by mail, a citation from the City that sets forth the alleged
violation and that informs the alleged violator of their right to a hearing on
the matter and how and where a hearing may be requested, including a contact
address and phone number.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Hearings:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Upon issuance of a citation, a person accused of violating this
chapter may request in writing a hearing on the matter. Hearing requests must
be made within ten (10) business days of the issuance of the citation and
delivered to the city clerk or other designated city officer. Failure to
properly request a hearing within ten (10) business days of the issuance of the
citation will terminate the person's right to a hearing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The city clerk or other designated city officer will set the time
and place for the hearing. Written notice of the hearing time and place will be
mailed or delivered to the accused violator at least ten (10) business days
prior to the hearing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Hearing Officer: The city council will designate a hearing officer.
The hearing officer will be an impartial employee of the City or an impartial
person retained by the City to conduct the hearing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Decision: A decision will be issued by the hearing officer within
ten (10) business days of the hearing. If the hearing officer determines that a
violation of this chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing
officer's reasons for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed, will
be recorded in writing, a copy of which will be provided to the City and the
accused violator by in-person delivery or mail as soon as practicable. If the
hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or finds grounds for not
imposing any penalty, those findings will be recorded and a copy will be
provided to the City and the acquitted accused violator by in-person delivery
or mail as soon as practicable. The decision of the hearing officer is final,
subject to an appeal as described in Section 3-6-10.A.6.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Costs: If the citation is upheld by the hearing officer, the City's
actual expenses in holding the hearing up to a maximum of one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) must be paid by the person requesting the hearing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Appeals: Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer must be
filed in Becker County district court within ten (10) business days of the date
of the decision.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Continued Violation: Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Administrative Penalties:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Licensees: Any licensee cited and found to have violated this
chapter, or whose employee violated this chapter, will be charged an
administrative fine of two hundred dollars ($200.00) for a first violation. The
administrative penalties for any subsequent violations shall be as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â For a second violation within a thirty six (36)-month period from
the first violation, an administrative penalty of two hundred fifty dollars
($250.00) shall be imposed. For a third violation within a thirty six (36)-
month period of a second violation, an administrative penalty of five hundred
dollars ($500.00) shall be imposed, and the licensee's authority to sell
tobacco or tobacco-related devices shall be suspended for thirty (30) days. For
a fourth violation within a thirty six (36)-month period of the third
violation, an administrative penalty of seven hundred fifty ($750.00) shall be
imposed, the license to sell licensed products shall be revoked and the
licensee shall not be entitled to another license for one (1) calendar year.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Employees Of Licensees And Other Individuals: Other individuals who
are found to be in violation of this chapter will be charged an administrative
fine of up to fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 155, 2-10-2020)
CHAPTER 7
ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
SECTION:
3-7-1: Findings
3-7-2: Purpose
3-7-3: Definitions
3-7-4: Compliance With And Application Of Provisions
3-7-5: License Required
3-7-6: Ineligibility For License
3-7-7: Application For License
3-7-8: License Fee
3-7-9: Approval Or Denial Of License; Appeal
3-7-10: Contents Of License; Posting Required
3-7-11: Expiration Of License; Renewals
3-7-12: Nontransferability Of License
3-7-13: Location
3-7-14: Hours Of Operation
3-7-15: Alcoholic Beverages Prohibited
3-7-16: Operation Of Establishments
3-7-17: Inspections
3-7-18: Suspension Of License
3-7-19: Revocation Of License
3-7-1: FINDINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Studies conducted by the Minnesota attorney general, the American
Planning Association and cities such as St. Paul; Indianapolis; Alexandria,
Minnesota; Rochester, Minnesota; Phoenix, Arizona; Los Angeles, California; and
Seattle, Washington, have studied the impacts that adult establishments have in
those communities. These studies have concluded that adult establishments have
an adverse impact on the surrounding neighborhoods. Those impacts include
increased crime rates, lower property values, increased transiency,
neighborhood blight and potential health risks. Based on these studies and
findings, the city council concludes:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Adult establishments have adverse secondary impacts of the types set
forth above.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The adverse impacts caused by adult establishments tend to diminish
if adult establishments are governed by locational requirements, licensing
requirements and health requirements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â It is not the intent of the city council to prohibit adult
establishments from having a reasonable opportunity to locate in the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Minnesota statutes section 462.357 allows the city to adopt
regulations to promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The public health, safety, morals and general welfare will be
promoted by the city adopting regulations governing adult establishments.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The city council makes the following findings regarding the need to
license sexually oriented businesses. The findings are based upon the
experiences of other cities where such businesses have located, as studied by
city staff.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Sexually oriented businesses can contribute to an increase in
criminal activity in the area in which such businesses are located, taxing city
crime prevention programs and law enforcement services.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Sexually oriented businesses can be used as fronts for prostitution
and other criminal activity. The experience of other cities indicates that the
proper management and operation of such businesses can, however, minimize this
risk, provided the owners and operators of such facilities are regulated by
licensing or other procedures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Sexually oriented businesses can increase the risk of exposure to
communicable diseases including, but not limited to, acquired immune deficiency
syndrome (AIDS) for which currently there is no cure. Experiences of other
cities indicate that such businesses can facilitate the spread of communicable
diseases by virtue of the design and use of the premises, thereby endangering
not only the patrons of such establishments but also the general public.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Sexually oriented businesses can cause or contribute to public
health problems by the presence of live adult entertainment in conjunction with
food and/or drink and alcohol use on the same premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The risk of criminal activity and/or public health problems can be
minimized through a licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed herein. (Ord.
124, 7-6-2004)
3-7-2: PURPOSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate adult oriented businesses
to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the citizens of
the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Prevent additional criminal activity within the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Prevent deterioration of neighborhoods and its consequent adverse
effect on real estate values of properties within the neighborhood.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Locate adult oriented businesses away from residential areas,
schools, churches, and parks and playgrounds.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Prevent concentration of adult oriented businesses within certain
areas of the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including adult oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent
nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to adult
oriented materials protected by the first amendment or to deny access by
distributors and exhibitors of adult oriented entertainment to their intended
market. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004)
3-7-3: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the terms defined in this section have the
meanings given them.
ADULT BOOK AND/OR MEDIA STORE: An establishment which excludes minors and which
has a substantial portion of its stock in trade or stock on display books,
magazines, films, videotape, or other media which are characterized by their
emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT CABARET: An establishment which provides dancing or other live
entertainment, if such establishment excludes minors by virtue of age from all
or part of the establishment, and if such dancing or other live entertainment
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the performance, depiction
or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT ESTABLISHMENT: Any business which offers its patrons services,
entertainment, or the sale of merchandise characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, exposing, describing, discussing, or relating to specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. Specifically included in the
term, but without limitation, are adult book and media stores, adult cabarets,
adult hotels or motels, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult modeling
studios, adult motion picture arcades, adult motion picture theaters, adult
novelty businesses, and other establishments.
ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL: A hotel or motel from which minors are specifically
excluded from patronage and wherein material is presented which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A. A theater in an enclosed building, from
which minors are excluded from all or part of the establishment, with a
capacity for less than fifty (50) persons, used for presenting motion pictures,
including, but not limited to, film and videotape, having as a dominant theme
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
B. Any business which presents motion pictures, from which minors are excluded
from all or part of the establishment, including films and videotapes, having
as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas, for viewing on the premises, including, but not
limited to, private booths, viewing by means of coin operated or other
mechanical devices, and the viewing of excerpts of motion pictures offered for
sale or rent.
ADULT MODELING STUDIO: An establishment, which excludes minors from all or part
of the establishment, whose major business is the provision to customers of
figure models who are so provided with the intent of providing sexual
stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and who engage in
specified sexual activities or display specified anatomical areas while being
observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculptured, photographed, or
otherwise depicted by such customers.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE: Any place, which excludes minors from all or part
of the establishment, wherein coin or token operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image producing devices are maintained to show
images to five (5) or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER: A theater in an enclosed building, from which
minors are excluded from all or part of the establishment, with a capacity of
fifty (50) or more persons used regularly and routinely for presenting live
entertainment or motion pictures, including, but not limited to, film and
videotapes, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS: A business, from which minors are excluded from all or
part of the establishment, which sells, offers to sell, or displays devices
which simulate human genitals or devices which are designed for sexual
stimulation.
ADULT USE: Any of the activities and businesses described in this section
constitute "adult oriented businesses" which are subject to the regulation of
this chapter.
SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS: Any of the following conditions:
A. Less than completely and opaquely covered:
1. Human genitals, pubic region, or pubic hair;
2. Buttock, anus; and
3. Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; and
B. Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, completely and opaquely
covered.
SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES: Any of the following conditions:
A. An act of sexual intercourse, normal or perverted, actual or simulated,
including genital- genital, anal-genital, or oral-genital intercourse, whether
between human beings or between a human being and an animal.
B. Sadomasochistic abuse, meaning flagellation or torture by or upon a person
who is nude or clad in undergarments or in a revealing costume or the condition
of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restricted on the part of one
so clothed.
C. Masturbation or lewd exhibitions of the genitals including any explicit,
closeup representation of a human genital organ, clothed or unclothed.
D. Physical contact or simulated physical contact with the clothed or unclothed
pubic areas or buttocks of a human male or female, or the breasts of a female,
whether alone or between members of the same or opposite sex or between humans
and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or gratification. (Ord.
124, 7-6-2004)
3-7-4: COMPLIANCE WITH AND APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Except as in this chapter specifically provided, no structure shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or altered and no structure or
land shall be used for any purpose nor in any manner which is not in conformity
with this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No adult oriented business shall engage in any activity or conduct or
permit any other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or about the
establishment which is prohibited by any ordinance of the city or the laws of
the state of Minnesota or the United States of America. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed as authorizing or permitting conduct which is prohibited or
regulated by other statutes or ordinances, including, but not limited to,
statutes or ordinances prohibiting the exhibition, sale, or distribution of
obscene material generally, or the exhibition, sale, or distribution of
specified materials to minors. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004)
3-7-5: LICENSE REQUIRED:
All establishments, including any business operating at the effective date
hereof, operating or intending to operate an adult oriented business shall
apply for and obtain a license from the city. A person is in violation hereof
if he or she operates an adult oriented business without a valid license issued
by the city. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004)
3-7-6: INELIGIBILITY FOR LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All establishments, including any business operating at the effective
date hereof, operating or intending to operate an adult oriented business shall
be prohibited if the license fee required by this chapter has not been paid.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â 1. All establishments, including any business operating at the
effective date hereof, operating or intending to operate an adult oriented
business shall be prohibited if an applicant has been convicted of a crime
involving any of the following offenses: (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Any sex crimes as defined by Minnesota statutes sections 609.293
through 609.352, inclusive, or as defined by any ordinance or statute in
conformity therewith. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Any obscenity crime as defined by Minnesota statutes sections
617.23 through 617.299, inclusive, or as defined by any ordinance or statute in
conformity therewith for which:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Less than two (2) years have elapsed since the date of
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the
last conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is a felony offense; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Less than five (5) years have elapsed since the date of the
last conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the conviction is of two (2) or
more misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring
within any twenty four (24) month period.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on
disqualification of the applicant's spouse.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â An applicant who has been convicted of an offense listed in
subsection B1 of this section may qualify for an adult oriented business
license only when the time period required by subsection B1 of this section has
elapsed. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004)
3-7-7: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing the
configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches (Â±6").
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
chapter, and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the appropriate state, county, and local law and codes by the health official,
fire marshal, and building official.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Application for license shall contain the address and legal description
of the property to be used; the names, addresses, phone numbers, and dates of
birth of the owner, lessee, if any, the operator or manager, and all employees;
the names, addresses, and phone numbers of two (2) persons who shall be
residents of the state of Minnesota and who may be called upon to attest to the
applicant's, manager's, or operator's character; whether the applicant,
manager, or operator has ever been convicted of a crime or offense other than a
traffic offense and, if so, complete and accurate information regarding the
disposition thereof; the names and addresses of all creditors of the applicant,
owner, lessee, or manager insofar as regarding the credit which has been
extended for the purposes of constructing, equipping, maintaining, operating,
furnishing or acquiring the premises, personal effects, equipment, or anything
incident to the establishment, maintenance and operation of the business.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â If the application is made on behalf of a corporation, joint business
venture, partnership, or any legally constituted business association, there
shall be submitted along with the application, accurate and complete business
records showing the names, addresses, and dates of birth of all individuals
having an interest in the business, including partners, officers, owners, and
creditors furnishing credit for the establishment; acquisition, maintenance,
and furnishings of said business and, in the case of a corporation, the names,
addresses, and dates of birth of all officers, general managers, members of the
board of directors as well as any creditors who have extended credit for the
acquisition, maintenance, operation, or furnishing of the establishment
including the purchase or acquisition of any items of personal property for use
in said operation.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â All applicants shall furnish to the city, along with their
applications, complete and accurate documentation establishing the interest of
the applicant and any other person having an interest in the premises upon
which the building is proposed to be located or the furnishings thereof,
personal property thereof, or the operation or maintenance thereof.
Documentation shall be in the form of a lease, deed, contract for deed,
mortgage deed, mortgage credit arrangement, loan agreements, security
agreements, and any other documents establishing the interest of the applicant
or any other person in the operation, acquisition or maintenance of the
enterprise. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004)
3-7-8: LICENSE FEE:
The fee to obtain a license to operate an adult oriented business shall be set
by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004; amd. 2008 Code)
3-7-9: APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF LICENSE; APPEAL:
The city council shall act to approve or disapprove the license application
within one hundred twenty (120) days from the date the application was
submitted; provided, that the application contains all of the information
required by this chapter. If the application is deficient, the council shall
act on the application within one hundred twenty (120) days from the date that
the deficiency has been corrected. Within ninety (90) days after the decision
by the council, the applicant may appeal to the district court by serving a
notice upon the mayor or city administrator. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004)
3-7-10: CONTENTS OF LICENSE; POSTING REQUIRED:
The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the person or
persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the address of the
adult oriented business. The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at
or near the entrance to the adult oriented business so that it may be easily
read at any time. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004)
3-7-11: EXPIRATION OF LICENSE; RENEWALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Each license shall expire at the end of the calendar year and may be
renewed only by making application as provided in sections 3-7-6 and 3-7-7 of
this chapter. Application for renewal must be made at least sixty (60) days
before the expiration date, and when made less than sixty (60) days before the
expiration date, the expiration of the license will not be affected.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â When the city denies renewal of a license, the applicant shall not be
issued a license for one year from the date of denial. If, subsequent to
denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the renewal license has
been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license if at least
ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date the denial became final. (Ord.
124, 7-6-2004)
3-7-12: NONTRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSE:
A licensee shall not transfer the license to another, nor shall a licensee
operate an adult oriented business under the authority of a license at any
place other than the address designated in the application. (Ord. 124, 7-6-
2004)
3-7-13: LOCATION:
During the term of this chapter, no adult oriented businesses shall be located
less than five hundred feet (500') from any residential zoning district
boundary or site used for residential purposes, and less than five hundred feet
(500') from any church site, from any school site, from any daycare facility,
or from any park. In addition, no adult oriented business may be located within
five hundred feet (500') of another adult oriented business. For purposes of
this chapter, this distance shall be a horizontal measurement from the nearest
existing residential district boundary or site used for residential purposes,
church site, school site, daycare site, park site, or another adult oriented
business site to the nearest boundary of the proposed adult oriented site.
(Ord. 124, 7-6-2004; amd. 2008 Code)
3-7-14: HOURS OF OPERATION:
No adult oriented business site shall be open to the public from the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. to nine o'clock (9:00) A.M. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004)
3-7-15: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED:
No alcoholic beverages shall be possessed, used, sold or provided by or to any
person at any adult oriented business premises. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004)
3-7-16: OPERATION OF ESTABLISHMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Off Site Viewing: An establishment operating as an adult oriented
business shall prevent off site viewing of its merchandise which, if viewed by
a minor, would be in violation of Minnesota statutes chapter 617 or other
applicable federal or state statutes or local ordinances.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Entrances: All entrances to the business, with the exception of
emergency fire exits, which are not usable by patrons to enter the business,
shall be visible from a public right of way.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Layout: The layout of the display areas shall be designed so that the
management of the establishment and any law enforcement personnel inside the
store can observe all patrons while they have access to any merchandise offered
for sale or viewing including, but not limited to, books, magazines,
photographs, video tapes, or any other material.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Illumination: Illumination of the premises exterior shall be adequate
to observe the location and activities of all persons on the exterior premises.
(Ord. 124, 7-6-2004)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Signs: Signs for adult oriented businesses shall not contain
representational depiction of an adult nature or graphic descriptions of the
adult theme of the operation. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004; amd. 2008 Code)
3-7-17: INSPECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â An applicant or licensee shall permit health officials and
representatives of the police department, fire department, and building
inspection division to inspect the premises of an adult oriented business, for
the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or
open for business.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A person who operates an adult oriented business or his/her agent or
employee commits an offense if she or he refuses to permit a lawful inspection
of the premises by health officials and representatives of the police
department, fire department, and building inspection division at any time it is
occupied or open for business. Refusal to permit inspections may result in the
suspension of the license as provided in section 3-7-18 of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult motel
which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004)
3-7-18: SUSPENSION OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Causes: The city may suspend a license for a period not to exceed
thirty (30) days if it determines that the licensee or an employee of the
licensee has:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Violated or is not in compliance with any provision of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Engaged in the possession, use, sale or provision of alcoholic
beverages while on the adult oriented business premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Refused to allow an inspection of the adult oriented business
premises as authorized by this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult oriented
business premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Demonstrated inability to operate or manage an adult oriented
business in a peaceful and law abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notice And Hearing: A suspension by the city shall be proceeded by
written notice to the licensee and a public hearing. The notice shall give at
least ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall
state the nature of the charges against the licensee. The notice may be served
upon the licensee personally or by leaving the same at the licensed business
premises with the person in charge thereof. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004)
3-7-19: REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Suspended Licenses: The city may revoke a license if a cause for
suspension in section 3-7-18 of this chapter occurs and the license has been
suspended within the preceding twelve (12) months.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Causes: The city shall revoke a license if it determines that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the city during the application process.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or
sale of alcohol or controlled substances on the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the adult oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in subsection 3-
7-6B1 of this chapter, for which the time period required in said subsection
has not elapsed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â On two (2) or more occasions within a twelve (12) month period, a
person or persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises
of a crime listed in subsection 3-7-6B1 of this chapter for which a conviction
has been obtained, and the person or persons were employees of the adult
oriented business at the time the offenses were committed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation or masturbation to occur in or on the
licensed premises. This subsection B7 does not apply to adult motels as a
ground for revoking the license unless the licensee or employee knowingly
allowed the act of sexual intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation,
or sexual contact to occur in a public place or within public view.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Notice And Hearing: A revocation by the city shall be proceeded by
written notice to the licensee and a public hearing. The notice shall give at
least ten (10) days' notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall
state the nature of the charges against the licensee. The notice may be served
upon the licensee personally or by leaving the same at the licensed premises
with the person in charge thereof.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Appeals: The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Granting License After Revocation: When the city revokes a license, the
revocation shall continue for one year, and the licensee shall not be issued an
adult oriented business license for one year from the date revocation became
effective. If, subsequent to revocation, the city finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least ninety (90) days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective. If the license was revoked under subsection B5 of this section, an
applicant may not be granted another license until the appropriate number of
years required under subsection
3-7-6B1 of this chapter has elapsed. (Ord. 124, 7-6-2004)
CHAPTER 8
CANNABIS BUSINESS
SECTION:
3-8-1: Administration
3-8-2: Registration Of Cannabis Businesses
3-8-3: Requirements For Cannabis Businesses
3-8-4: Temporary Cannabis Events
3-8-1: ADMINISTRATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Findings and Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to implement the
provisions of Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 342, which authorizes the City of
Frazee to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of its residents by
regulating cannabis businesses within its legal boundaries. The City finds and
concludes that the proposed provisions are appropriate and lawful regulations
for the City; will promote the community's interest in reasonable stability in
zoning for now and in the future; and are in the public interest and for the
public good.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Authority and Jurisdiction: The City has the authority to adopt this
chapter pursuant to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 342.13(c), regarding the authority of a
local unit of government to adopt reasonable restrictions of the time, place,
and manner of the operation of a cannabis business provided that such
restrictions do not prohibit the establishment or operation of cannabis
businesses.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 342.22, regarding the local registration
and enforcement requirements of state-licensed cannabis retail businesses.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 152.0263, subd. 5, regarding the use of
cannabis in public places.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 462.357, regarding the authority of a
local authority to adopt zoning ordinances.
Â Â Â This chapter shall be applicable to the legal boundaries of the City.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Severability: If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Enforcement: The City is responsible for the administration and
enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the provisions of this chapter or
failure to comply with any of its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is
punishable as defined by law. Violations of this chapter can occur regardless
of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated activity listed in this
chapter.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Definitions: Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and phrases
contained in Minnesota Statutes, section 342.01 and the rules promulgated
pursuant to any of these acts, shall have the same meanings in this chapter.
CANNABIS BUSINESS: As defined under Minnesota Statutes, section 342.01, subd.
14.
CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESS: A retail location and the retail location of a
mezzobusiness with a retail operations endorsement, micro business with a
retail operations endorsement, or a medical combination business operating a
retail location. A retailer of exclusively lower-potency hemp edibles shall not
be considered a cannabis retail business.
CANNABIS RETAILER: Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or association,
foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and not for the
purpose of resale in any form.
CITY: The City of Frazee.
DAYCARE: A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human Services to
provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child's own home for
gain or otherwise, on a regular basis. for any part of a twenty-four (24)-hour
day.
LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE: As defined under Minnesota Statutes, section 342.01,
subd. 50.
OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT: Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management.
referred to as âOCMâ in this chapter.
PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION: A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
public.
PUBLIC PLACE: A public park or trail, public street, or sidewalk; any enclosed,
indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited to, a
restaurant, bar. any other food or liquor establishment, hospital, nursing
home, auditorium, arena, gym, meeting room, common area of a rental apartment
building, and other places of public accommodation.
RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY: As defined under Minnesota Statutes, section
245.462, subd. 23.
RETAIL REGISTRATION: An approved registration issued by the City to a state-
licensed cannabis retail business.
SCHOOL: A public school as defined under Minnesota Statutes, section 120A.05 or
a nonpublic school that must meet the reporting requirements under Minnesota
Statutes, section 120A.24.
STATE LICENSE: An approved license issued by the OCM to a cannabis retail
business. (Ord. 175, 8-14-2024)
3-8-2: REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Consent to Registering of Cannabis Businesses: No individual or entity
may operate a state-licensed cannabis retail business within the City without
first registering with the City. Any state-licensed cannabis retail business
that sells to a customer or patient without valid retail registration shall
incur a civil penalty not to exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for each
violation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Compliance Checks Prior to Retail Registration: Prior to issuance of a
cannabis retail business registration, the City shall conduct a preliminary
compliance check to ensure compliance with local ordinances. Pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes, chapter 342, within thirty (30) days of receiving a copy of
a state license application from OCM, the City shall certify on a form provided
by OCM whether a proposed cannabis retail business complies with local zoning
ordinances and, if applicable, whether the proposed business complies with the
state fire code and building code.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Fees: A registration fee, as established in the City's fee schedule,
shall be charged to applicants depending on the type of retail business license
applied for.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Application Submittal: The City shall issue a retail registration to a
state-licensed cannabis retail business that adheres to the requirements of
Minnesota Statutes, section 342.22.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an application
form, as provided by the City. Said form shall include, but is not limited to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Full name of the property owner and applicant;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registration is sought; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Certification that the applicant complies with the requirements
of local ordinances established pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 342.13.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The applicant shall include with the form:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The registration fee as required in this section; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM license
preapproval.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Once an application is considered complete. the City shall inform
the applicant as such, process the application fees. and forward the
application to the City Council for approval or denial.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Application Approval:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not be
approved if the cannabis retail business would exceed the maximum number of
registered cannabis retail businesses permitted under this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not be
approved or renewed if theÂ Â Â applicant is unable to meet the requirements of
this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A state-licensed cannabis retail business application that meets the
requirements of this chapter shall be approved.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Annual Compliance Checks: The City shall complete at minimum one (1)
compliance check per calendar year of every cannabis business to assess if the
business meets age verification requirements, as required under Minnesota
Statutes, section 342.22, subd. 4(b), Minnesota Statutes, section 342.24, and
this chapter. The City shall conduct at minimum one unannounced age
verification compliance check per calendar year. Age verification compliance
checks shall involve persons at least seventeen (17) years of age but under the
age of twenty-one (21) who, with the prior written consent of a parent or
guardian if the person is under the age of eighteen (18), attempt to purchase
adult-use cannabis flower or adult-use cannabis products under the direct
supervision of a law enforcement officer or an employee of the local unit of
government. Any failures under this section must be reported to the OCM.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Location Change: A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall be
required to submit a new application for registration under this section if it
seeks to move to a new location still within the legal boundaries of the City.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Renewal of Registration: The City shall renew an annual registration of
a state-licensed cannabis retail business at the same time OCM renews the
cannabis retail business' license. A state-licensed cannabis retail business
shall apply to renew registration on a form established by the City. A cannabis
retail registration issued under this chapter shall not be transferred. The
City may charge a renewal fee for the registration starting at the second
renewal. as established in the City's fee schedule. The application for renewal
of a retail registration shall include, but is not limited to, the items
required under this section.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Suspension of Registration:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â When Suspension is Warranted: The City may suspend a cannabis retail
business's registration if it violates the ordinance of the City or poses an
immediate threat to the health or safety of the public. The City shall
immediately notify the cannabis retail business in writing the grounds for the
suspension.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Notification to OCM: The City shall immediately notify the OCM in
writing the grounds for the suspension. The OCM will provide the City and
cannabis business retailer a response to the complaint within seven (7)
calendar days and perform any necessary inspections within thirty (30) calendar
days.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Length of Suspension: The suspension of a cannabis retail business
registration may be for up to thirty (30) calendar days, unless OCM suspends
the license for a longer period. The business may not make sales to customers
if their registration is suspended. The City may reinstate a registration if it
determines that the violations have been resolved.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Civil Penalties: Subject to Minnesota Statutes, section 342.22,
subd. 5(e) the City may impose a civil penalty not to exceed two thousand
dollars ($2,000.00).
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Limiting of Registrations: The City shall limit the number of cannabis
retail businesses to one (1) registration for every twelve thousand five
hundred (12,500) residents within the City. However, if Becker County has one
(1) active cannabis retail businesses registration for every twelve thousand
five hundred (12,500) residents, the City shall not register a new state-
licensed cannabis retail business within the City. (Ord. 175, 8-14-2024)
3-8-3: REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS BUSINESSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Minimum Buffer Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The City shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis business within
one thousand feet (1,000') of a school.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The City shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis business within
five hundred feet (500') of a daycare.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The City shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis business within
five hundred feet (500') of a residential treatment facility.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The City shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis business within
five hundred feet (500') of an attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors, including a playground or athletic field.
Â Â Â Nothing in this section shall prohibit an existing registered cannabis
retail business from continuing operation at the same site if a school,
daycare, residential treatment facility, or an attraction within a public park
that is regularly used by minors moves within the minimum buffer zone.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Zoning Requirements: Cannabis businesses are allowed as a conditional
use within the Industrial Zoning District.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Hours of Operation: Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sale of
cannabis, cannabis flower, and cannabis products between the hours of ten
oâclock (10:00) a.m. and nine oâclock (9:00) p.m., seven (7) days a week. (Ord.
175, 8-14-2024)
3-8-4: TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permit Required for Temporary Cannabis Events:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Permit Required: A permit is required to be issued and approved by
the City prior to holding a Temporary Cannabis Event.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Application Procedure: A permit fee, as established in the City's
fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants for Tempora ry Cannabis Events.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Application Submittal and Review. The City shall require an
application for Temporary Cannabis Events.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â An applicant for a permit shall fill out an application form. as
provided by the City. Said form shall include, but is not limited to, the full
name of the property owner and applicant. as well as the address, email
address, and telephone number of the applicant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The applicant shall include with the form: the application fee as
required in this section and a copy of the OCM cannabis event permit
application, submitted pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, section 342.39, subd. 2.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The application shall be submitted to the City, or other designee
for review. If the designee determines that a submitted application is
incomplete, they shall return the application to the applicant with the notice
of deficiencies.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Once an application is considered complete, the designee shall
inform the applicant as such, process the application fees, and forward the
application to the City Council for approval or denial.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The application for a permit for a Temporary Cannabis Event shall
meet the following standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The maximum length for a Temporary Cannabis Event shall be
four (4) days.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â A Temporary Cannabis Event shall only be held between the
hours of ten oâclock (10:00) a.m. and nine oâclock (9:00) p.m.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â No on-site consumption of cannabis products shall occur at a
Temporary Cannabis Event. (Ord. 175, 8-14-2024)
TITLE 4
HEALTH, SANITATION AND ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 1
PUBLIC NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-1-1: Public Nuisance Prohibition
4-1-2: Public Nuisances Affecting Health
4-1-3: Public Nuisances Affecting Morals And Decency
4-1-4: Public Nuisances Affecting Peace And Safety
4-1-5: Noise Violations
4-1-6: Nuisance Parking And Storage
4-1-7: Inoperable Motor Vehicles
4-1-8: Duties Of City Officers
4-1-9: Abatement Procedure
4-1-10: Recovery Of Cost
4-1-11: Penalty
4-1-1: PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITION:
A person must not act, or fail to act, in a manner that is or causes a public
nuisance. For purpose of this chapter, a person that does any of the following
is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures, or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public; or
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage, any
public highway or right of way, or waters used by the public; or
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Does any other act or omission declared by law or this chapter to be a
public nuisance. (Ord. 146, 7-18-2011)
4-1-2: PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All diseased animals running at large;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within twenty four (24)
hours after death;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Accumulation of manure, refuse, or other debris;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent free or flytight, or
which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other substances;
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders in unreasonable
quantities;
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license. (Ord. 146, 7-18-2011)
4-1-3: PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals and
decency:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All gambling devices, slot machines, and punch boards, except otherwise
authorized and permitted by federal, state, or local law;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in those occupations;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdyhouses;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â All places where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is manufactured or
disposed of in violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are
permitted to resort, for the purpose of drinking intoxicating or 3.2 malt
liquor, or where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is kept for sale or other
disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and other property used for
maintaining that place; and
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating or 3.2
malt liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or
illegal purpose. (Ord. 146, 7-18-2011)
4-1-4: PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY:
The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and safety:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All snow and ice that is not removed from public sidewalks within
twenty four (24) hours after the snow or other precipitation causing the
condition has ceased to fall;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All wires and limbs of trees that are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any person participating in any party or other gathering that causes
the unreasonable disturbing of the peace, quiet, or repose of another person;
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â All unnecessary and annoying vibrations;
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds, except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Radio aerials or television antennas erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk that causes large crowds or people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated as to endanger public safety, or not constructed and
maintained as provided by ordinance;
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â The allowing of rainwater, ice, or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Any barbed wire fence located less than six feet (6') above the ground
and within three feet (3') of a public sidewalk or way;
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
properties;
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other materials in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health, or other
safety hazards from such accumulation;
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Any well, hole, or similar excavation that is left uncovered or in such
other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
Â Â Â P.Â Â Â Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a public
street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash or other materials;
Â Â Â Q.Â Â Â The placing or throwing upon any street, sidewalk, or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substances that may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over such
substance;
Â Â Â R.Â Â Â The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right of way or on
adjacent private property;
Â Â Â S.Â Â Â Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
foot-candles as measured on the property line of the property where the
lighting is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one foot-candle
when abutting any commercial or industrial parcel; and
Â Â Â T.Â Â Â All other conditions or things that are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of another. (Ord. 146, 7-18-2011)
4-1-5: NOISE VIOLATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Prohibited Noises: The following are declared to be nuisances affecting
public health, safety, peace, or welfare:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or
welfare of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property, or affects
their property's value (this general prohibition is not limited by any specific
restrictions provided in this chapter);
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation of
Minnesota rules chapter 7030, as they may be amended from time to time, are
hereby incorporated into this chapter by reference;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The use of any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to create
loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of the
exhaust of any statutory internal combustion engine, motorboat, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile, or any recreational device,
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Any loud or excessive noise in the loading, unloading, or unpacking
of any vehicle; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device, paging
system, machine, or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a
distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet, and
comfort of any person nearby.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Hourly Restriction Of Certain Operations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Domestic Power Equipment: No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill, or
other similar domestic power equipment, except between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on any weekday, weekend, or
holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this provision.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Construction Activities: No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas powered machine or other power equipment, except between the hours of seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. and ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. on any weekday, weekend, or
holiday.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Radios, Music Devices, Paging Systems, And The Like: The operation
of any device referred to in subsection A6 of this section between the hours of
ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. in a manner so as to be
plainly audible at the property line of the structure or building in which it
is located, or at a distance of fifty feet (50') if the source is located
outside a structure or building shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Noise Impact Statements: The council may require any person applying
for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any structure,
operation, process, installation, alteration, or project that may be considered
a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a form
prescribed by the council. The council shall evaluate each such statement and
take its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or
permit applied for or the zoning changes requested. (Ord. 146, 7-18-2011)
4-1-6: NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Declaration Of Nuisance: The outside parking and storage on
residentially zoned property of large numbers of vehicles, materials, supplies,
or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes in violation of the
requirements set forth below is declared to be a public nuisance because it: 1)
obstructs views on streets and private property, 2) creates cluttered and
otherwise unsightly areas, 3) prevents the full use of residential streets for
residential parking, 4) introduces commercial advertising signs into areas
where commercial advertising signs are otherwise prohibited, 5) decreases
adjoining landownersâ and occupantsâ use and enjoyment of their property and
neighborhood, and 6) otherwise adversely affects property values and
neighborhood patterns.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following words and
terms shall have the meanings, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise:
Â 
                      Driveway shall mean the improved or unimproved place on
                      private property that a vehicle would have to travel over
DRIVEWAY:             to enter a garage or carport, or to enter a side yard
                      immediately adjacent to a garage or carport, from a
                      designated entry/exit point on a public right-of-way.
                      Motor vehicle shall be defined as a passenger vehicle,
                      truck, motorcycle, or motorized scooter. The term does
MOTOR VEHICLE:        not include a bicycle, tricycle, quadricycle, self-
                      propelled scooter, electric personal assistive mobility
                      device, or motorized wheelchair.
                      Recreational vehicle shall mean that class of vehicles
                      intended for recreational use, including, but not limited
                      to: a motor home, travel trailer, camper shell, cab-over-
                      camper, fifth wheel, tent and camping trailer, boat
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: (whether mounted on a trailer or not), off-highway
                      vehicle, all-terrain vehicle, snowmobile, sand/dune
                      buggy, side-by-side, personal watercraft, golf cart, and
                      go-cart. For enumeration purposes, a recreational vehicle
                      (s) parked on a trailer shall constitute one (1)
                      recreational vehicle.
                      Trailer shall be defined as any vehicle designed for
TRAILER:              carrying property or passengers in its own structure and
                      for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
                      Vehicle shall mean any motor vehicle, recreational
                      vehicle, trailer, or other vehicle used or intended to be
VEHICLE:              used for the transportation of persons or property,
                      including all property or cargo located within, loaded
                      upon, or attached to any such vehicle.
Â 
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Unlawful Parking and Storage:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Nonpermanent Structures. A person shall not park, store, or allow
the placement of ice fishing houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses, or other
similar nonpermanent structures outside continuously for longer than twenty-
four (24) hours in the front yard area of residential property unless more than
one hundred feet (100') back from the front property line.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Materials. A person shall not park, store, or allow the placement of
pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
equipment and materials used in conjunction with a business, outside on
residential property, unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or
fence.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Motor Vehicles. No more than three (3) motor vehicles per dwelling
unit or one (1) motor vehicle for each licensed driver residing at the dwelling
unit, whichever total is greater, may be parked or stored anywhere outside on
residential property. The maximum number does not include the motor vehicles of
occasional guests who do not reside on the property. Motor vehicles parked or
stored outside on residential property shall comply with the following
requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Motor vehicles must be owned by a person who resides on that
property. Students who are away for school for periods of time but still claim
the property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the
property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Motor vehicles that are parked or stored in the front yard must
be on a driveway.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Recreational Vehicles and Trailers. No more than a combined total of
three (3) recreational vehicles and trailers per dwelling unit may be parked or
stored anywhere outside on residential property. The maximum number does not
include the recreational vehicles and trailers of occasional guests who do not
reside on the property. Recreational vehicles and trailers parked or stored
outside on residential property shall comply with the following requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Recreational vehicles and trailers must be owned by a person who
resides on that property. Students who are away for school for periods of time
but still claim the property as their legal residence will be considered
residents on the property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Recreational vehicles and trailers must be parked or stored in
the side or rear yards, except as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Temporary parking of recreational vehicles and trailers may
occur in the front yard, not to exceed forty-eight (48) hours in a seven (7)
day period. The recreational vehicle or trailer must be parked at least fifteen
feet (15') from any public street, sidewalk, or path.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â If the side and rear yards cannot be accessed, one (1)
recreational vehicle or trailer may be parked or stored in the front yard
during seasonal usage for a maximum period of three (3) months in a calendar
year through the issuance of an administrative parking permit. During the
remaining portion of the calendar year, no recreational vehicle or trailer
shall be parked or stored in the front yard. The recreational vehicle or
trailer must be parked or stored at least fifteen feet (15') from any public
street, sidewalk, or path.
(Ord. 146, 7-18-2011; amd. Ord. 171, 1-24-2024)
4-1-7: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Declaration Of Nuisance: Any motor vehicle described in this section
shall constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the
community as such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and
breeding ground for vermin, and present physical danger to the safety and well
being of children and citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids
which, if released into the environment, can and do cause significant health
risks to the community.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Inoperable Motor Vehicles: It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store,
or abandon any motor vehicle that is not in operating condition, partially
dismantled, used for repair of parts or as a source of repair or replacement
parts for other vehicles, kept for scrapping, dismantling, or salvage of any
kind, or which is not properly licensed for operation within the state,
pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 168B.011, subdivision 3, as it may be
amended from time to time.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Screening: This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a
building and/or kept out of view from any street, road, or alley, and which
does not foster complaint from a resident of the city. Privacy fencing is
permissible. (Ord. 146, 7-18-2011)
4-1-8: DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS:
City officials may apply and enforce any provision of this chapter relating to
public nuisances within this jurisdiction. Any peace officer or other
designated city official shall have the power to inspect private premises and
take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance of
public nuisances. Except in emergency situations of imminent danger to human
life and safety, no peace officer or designated city official will enter
private property for the purpose of inspecting or preventing public nuisances
without the permission of the owner, resident, or other person in control of
the property, unless the officer or designated official has obtained a warrant
or order from a court of competent jurisdiction authorizing entry. (Ord. 146,
7-18-2011)
4-1-9: ABATEMENT PROCEDURE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Procedure: Whenever the peace officer or other designated official
determines that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises
in the city, the officer or designated official shall notify in writing the
owner of record or occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the
nuisance be terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the
steps to be taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance
is to be abated. If the notice of violation is not complied with within the
time specified, the officer or designated official shall report that fact
forthwith to the city council. Thereafter, the city council may, after notice
to the owner or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the
condition identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order
that if the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the city
council, the city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the city
council order and notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an
administrative search and seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notice: Written notice of the violation; notice of the time, date,
place, and subject of any hearing before the city council; notice of the city
council order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be
served by a peace officer or designated official on the owner of record or
occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered mail.
If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or if the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice, notice of the violation
shall be served by positing it on the premises.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Emergency Procedure; Summary Enforcement: In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the procedure and notice requirements
as set forth in subsections A and B of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health, safety, or welfare, the city
council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the peace officer or other designated official shall
determine that a public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in
the city and that delay in abatement will unreasonably endanger public health,
safety, or welfare. The officer or designated official shall notify in writing
the occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance, whether
public health, safety, or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in
abatement required to complete the procedure set forth in subsection A of this
section and may order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If
the nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated, the city council may
order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Immediate Abatement: Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition that
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Unlawful Parties Or Gatherings: When law enforcement determines that a
gathering is creating such a noise disturbance as prohibited under subsection
4-1-4D of this chapter, the officer may order all persons present, other than
the owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to
disburse immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do
so by law enforcement. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has knowledge
of the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the
disturbance is stopped.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Judicial Remedy: Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from
seeking a judicial remedy when no other adequate administrative remedy exists.
(Ord. 146, 7-18-2011)
4-1-10: RECOVERY OF COST:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Personal Liability: The owner of the premises on which a nuisance has
been abated by the city, or a person who has caused a public nuisance on
property not owned by that person, shall be personally liable for the cost to
the city of the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work
has been completed and the cost determined, the city clerk or other city
official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon
the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the city
clerk.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Assessment: After notice and hearing as provided in Minnesota statutes
section 429.061, as it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a
public health or safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow
and ice on public sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside
the traveled portion of streets, or unsound or insect infected trees, the city
clerk shall, on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance,
list the total unpaid charges along with all other such charges as well as
other charges for current services to be assessed under Minnesota statutes
section 429.101 against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The city council may then spread the charges against the property
under that statute and any other pertinent statutes for certification to the
county auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in
annual installments, not exceeding ten (10), as the city council may determine
in each case. (Ord. 146, 7-18-2011)
4-1-11: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor for each day the violation exists and shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed one thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or imprisonment for not more
than ninety (90) days, or both, plus the costs of prosecution in either case.
Administrative penalty provisions of Title 1, Chapter 4, Article B of this Code
also apply. (Ord. 146, 7-18-2011; amd. Ord. 174, 1-22-2024)
CHAPTER 2
WEEDS, GRASS AND BRUSH 1
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definition
4-2-2: Height Restriction; Accumulation And Weeds Prohibited
4-2-3: Duty To Cut And Remove Vegetation
4-2-4: Notice To Cut And Remove; Removal By City; Costs
4-2-5: Penalties
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 1 of this title.
4-2-1: DEFINITION:
The word "person", as used in this chapter, shall mean and include one or more
persons of either sex, natural persons, corporations, partnerships,
associations, joint stock companies, societies and all other entities of any
kind capable of being sued. (Ord. 87, eff. 6-1-1979)
4-2-2: HEIGHT RESTRICTION; ACCUMULATION AND WEEDS PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, or occupant, or any agent, servant,
representative or employee of any such owner, lessee, or occupant, having
control of any occupied or unoccupied lot or land or any part thereof in the
city to permit or maintain on any such lot or land, or on or along the
sidewalk, street or alley adjacent to the same between the property line and
the curb or middle of the alley or for ten feet (10') outside the property line
and the curb or middle of the alley or for ten feet (10') outside the property
line if there be no curb, any growth of weeds, grass, brush or other rank
vegetation to a greater height than six inches (6") on the average, or any
accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush. It shall also be unlawful for any
such person or persons to cause, suffer or allow poison ivy, ragweed or other
poisonous plants, or plants detrimental to health to grow on any such lot or
land in such manner that any part of such ivy, ragweed, or other poisonous
plants, or harmful weed shall extend upon, overhang, or border any public
place, or to allow seed, pollen or other poisonous particles or emanations
therefrom to be carried through the air into any public place. (Ord. 87, eff.
6-1-1979; amd. 2008 Code)
4-2-3: DUTY TO CUT AND REMOVE VEGETATION:
It shall be the duty of any owner, lessee or occupant of any lot or land to cut
and remove or cause to be cut and removed all such weeds, grass, brush or other
rank, poisonous or harmful vegetation as often as may be necessary to comply
with the provisions of section 4-2-2 of this chapter; provided, that cutting
and removing such weeds, grass and vegetation at least once in every three (3)
weeks, between May 15 and September 15, shall be deemed to be in compliance
with this chapter. (Ord. 87, eff. 6-1-1979)
4-2-4: NOTICE TO CUT AND REMOVE; REMOVAL BY CITY; COSTS:
If the provision of sections 4-2-2 and 4-2-3 of this chapter are not complied
with, the police department shall serve written notice upon the owner, lessee
or occupant, or any person having the care or control of any such lot or land,
to comply with the provisions of this chapter. If the person upon whom the
notice is served fails, neglects, or refuses to cut and remove or to cause to
be cut and removed such weeds, grass, brush or other vegetation within five (5)
days after receipt of such notice, or if no person can be found in the city who
either is or claims to be the owner of such lot of land, or who either
represents or claims to represent such owner, the police department shall cause
such weeds, grass, brush and other vegetation on such lot or land to be cut and
removed, and the actual cost of such cutting and removal, plus five percent
(5%) for inspection and other additional costs in connection therewith, shall
be certified by the city clerk-treasurer to the county auditor and shall
thereupon become and be a lien upon the property on which such weeds, grass,
brush and other vegetation were located, and shall be added to and become a
part of the taxes next to be assessed and levied upon such lot or land, and
shall bear interest at the same rate as taxes, and shall be collected and
enforced by the same officer and in the same manner as taxes. (Ord. 87, eff. 6-
1-1979; amd. 2008 Code)
4-2-5: PENALTIES:
Any person who shall neglect to cut and remove weeds, grass, brush or other
vegetation as directed in this chapter, or who shall fail, neglect, or refuse
to comply with the provisions of any notice herein provided, or who shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or who shall resist or obstruct
the police department in the cutting and removal of weeds, grass, brush, and
other vegetation, shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as
provided in section 1-4A-1 of this code. Administrative penalty provisions of
title 1, chapter 4, article B of this code also apply. (Ord. 87, eff. 6-1-1979;
amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BLIGHT 1
SECTION:
4-3-1: Causes Of Blight Or Blighting Factors
4-3-2: Audio Or Visual Blight; Odors
4-3-3: Animal Nuisances
4-3-4: Abatement Procedures
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 1 of this title.
4-3-1: CAUSES OF BLIGHT OR BLIGHTING FACTORS:
It is hereby determined that the uses, structures and activities and causes of
blight or blighting factors described herein, if allowed to exist, will tend to
result in blighted and undesirable neighborhoods so as to be harmful to the
public welfare, health and safety. On and after the effective date hereof, no
person, firm or corporation of any kind shall maintain or permit to be
maintained any of the following causes of blight or blighting factors upon any
property in the city owned, leased, rented or occupied by such person, firm, or
corporation:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In any area within the city, the storage upon any property of junk
automobiles. For the purpose of this chapter, the term "junk automobiles" shall
include any motor vehicle, part of a motor vehicle, or former motor vehicle,
stored in the open, which is not currently licensed for use upon the highways
of the state of Minnesota, and is either: 1) unusable or inoperable because of
lack of, or defects in, component parts; or 2) unusable or inoperable because
of damage from collision, deterioration, or having been cannibalized; or 3)
beyond repair and therefore not intended for future use as a motor vehicle; or
4) being retained on the property for possible use of salvageable parts. (Ord.
89, 8-6-1979)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In any area within the city the storage or accumulation of junk, trash,
rubbish or refuse of any kind, except refuse stored in such a manner as not to
create a nuisance, for a period not to exceed thirty (30) days. The term "junk"
shall include parts of machinery or motor vehicles, unused stoves or other
appliances stored in the open; remnants of wood, decayed, weathered or broken
construction materials no longer suitable for sale, approved building
materials; metal or material of any kind whether or not the same could be put
to any reasonable use. (Ord. 89, 8-6-1979; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â In any area, the existence of any structure or part of any structure
which, because of fire, wind, or other natural disaster or physical
deterioration is no longer habitable as a dwelling nor useful for any other
purpose for which it may have been intended.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â In any area within the city, the existence of any vacant dwelling,
garage, or other outbuilding, unless such building is kept securely locked,
windows kept glazed or neatly boarded up and otherwise protected to prevent
entrance thereto by vandals. (Ord. 89, 8-6-1979)
4-3-2: AUDIO OR VISUAL BLIGHT; ODORS:
This chapter shall prohibit any audio or visual blight, or smell, within the
city. This means that, in the judgment of the city council, they may act on any
complaint of a nonconforming use of land or a building in a residential area,
or other nuisance within the city. (Ord. 89, 8-6-1979)
4-3-3: ANIMAL NUISANCES 1 :
This chapter shall prohibit any nuisance caused by dogs, other pets and
domesticated animals within the city. The city council may act upon a complaint
such as a barking dog; or odors, noise, litter; or anything else coming from
these pets that may affect the health or peace of mind of the residents. (Ord.
89, 8-6-1979)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also title 5, chapter 5 of this code.
4-3-4: ABATEMENT PROCEDURES:
The abatement procedures of chapter 1 of this title shall apply to this
chapter. (2008 Code)
FR929Â Â Â 04-04.txt
CHAPTER 4
BIOFUEL BURNERS
SECTION:
4-4-1: Purpose
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Prohibition
4-4-4: Preexisting Outdoor Biofuel Burners
4-4-5: Permit Required
4-4-6: Use Regulations
4-4-7: Fuel Storage
4-4-8: Enforcement
4-4-1: PURPOSE:
It is recognized and found that wood smoke and smoke generated by other outdoor
solid fuel (biofuel) heating devices is hazardous to an individual's health and
may affect the health of the general public when they are involuntarily exposed
to the presence of smoke, and that breathing smoke is a significant health
hazard particularly to children, elderly people, individuals with
cardiovascular disease, and individuals with impaired respiratory functions. It
is also recognized that biofuel burners are designed and intended to be a
primary heat source, and therefore burn, and emit smoke on a continual basis.
Furthermore, significant fire safety risks are involved with units that are not
properly installed, or do not have proper safety equipment such as spark
arrestors; or are installed in close proximity to other buildings. The purpose
of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety, comfort and general
welfare of the citizens against the hazards posed by biofuel burners. (Ord.
141, 12-15-2008)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
BIOFUEL BURNER: A device, structure, or apparatus, which supplies direct or
indirect heat from the burning of solid fuel, including, but not limited to,
wood, corn, biomass pellets and other solid biofuels, to a building.
Traditional woodburning stoves and fireplaces are exempted from this chapter.
STACKS OR CHIMNEYS: Any vertical structure enclosing a flue or flues that carry
off smoke or exhaust from a biofuel burner. (Ord. 141, 12-15-2008)
4-4-3: PROHIBITION:
Outdoor biofuel burners are prohibited and shall not be installed or operated
within the city of Frazee, Minnesota. (Ord. 141, 12-15-2008)
4-4-4: PREEXISTING OUTDOOR BIOFUEL BURNERS:
Any existing biofuel burners installed within the city of Frazee prior to the
time of adoption hereof are required to meet emission standards currently
required by the environmental protection agency (EPA), which are hereby adopted
by reference together with any amendments or modifications made to them in the
future. Preexisting outdoor biofuel burners shall also be subject to the use
regulations set forth in section 4-4-6 of this chapter. No preexisting biofuel
burners shall hereafter be extended, enlarged, or expanded. At such time as the
useful life of a nonconforming woodburning unit or solid fuel fired heating
device has elapsed or would need to be repaired to function properly, the unit
cannot be replaced and must be abandoned, not used, and removed from the
property immediately. (Ord. 141, 12-15-2008)
4-4-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
The city of Frazee requires any person to obtain a building permit for any
biofuel burner to be installed within a building after the effective date
hereof. (Ord. 141, 12-15-2008)
4-4-6: USE REGULATIONS:
All permitted biofuel burners shall be subject to the following use
regulations:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Stacks:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The minimum stack height for any biofuel burner shall meet or exceed
the manufacturers' guidelines. The stack height shall be a minimum of twenty
five feet (25') above ground level, but shall also extend at least as high as
the height of the roofs of all residences within five hundred feet (500').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any existing noncomplying stack shall be removed, replaced, or
modified within a period of sixty (60) days from the receipt of a notice
generated from the building official or zoning administrator.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â All stacks or chimneys must be constructed to withstand high winds
or other related elements and according to the specifications of the
manufacturer of the biofuel burner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â All stacks or chimneys must be of masonry or insulated metal with a
minimum six inch (6") flue.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Use Period: Biofuel burners may only be used from November 1 to April
30 each year, unless the furnace is being used to provide domestic water
service.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Allowed Fuels: Only the following materials may be burned in the
biofuel burner: biomass pellets, corn, firewood, and clean, untreated lumber or
other wood product prepared or cut to length appropriate for burning.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Waste Incineration Prohibited: No biofuel burners shall be utilized in
any manner as a waste incinerator.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Smoke And Fumes: Any dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or
cinders, in unreasonable quantities, or any use of biofuel burners to burn
solid fuels other than those solid fuels for which the biofuel burner was
designed, is declared a public nuisance. (Ord. 141, 12-15-2008)
4-4-7: FUEL STORAGE:
Outdoor fuel storage is limited to two (2) cords of wood; "one cord of wood" is
defined as wood that can be stacked four feet (4') high by four feet (4') wide
by eight feet (8') long. Other fuel sources are similarly limited to a volume
not to exceed two (2) cords. Any structures constructed to contain or store
fuel must be constructed in accordance with the applicable zoning regulations.
(Ord. 141, 12-15-2008)
4-4-8: ENFORCEMENT:
The city zoning administrator, city clerk, fire chief, police chief and/or
their designees, or designated officials shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, punishable by up to ninety (90) days in jail and/or a one
thousand dollar ($1,000.00) fine. Each day the violation continues unabated
shall constitute a separate and distinct offense. Fines for violations shall be
established by resolution of the city council. This chapter may also be
enforced through title 1, chapter 4, article B, "Administrative Penalty", of
this code. (Ord. 141, 12-15-2008)
TITLE 5
POLICE AND PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Establishment
5-1-2: Chief Of Police
5-1-3: Membership
5-1-4: Duties
5-1-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
There shall be a police department within the city. (2008 Code)
5-1-2: CHIEF OF POLICE:
The head of the police department shall be known as the chief of police. The
chief shall be appointed by the city council, receive such compensation as the
city council may fix, and serve at the pleasure of the city council, subject to
supervisory authority of the city administrator. The chief shall supervise the
operation of the police department and shall have such other powers and duties
and keep such records as are prescribed by law, by this code and as the city
council may determine. (2008 Code)
5-1-3: MEMBERSHIP:
The number of additional members of the department, together with their ranks
and titles, shall be determined by the city council. The compensation to be
paid to members of the police department shall be fixed by the city council.
Members of the department shall be appointed by the city council. (2008 Code)
5-1-4: DUTIES:
Members of the police department shall enforce the ordinances and laws
applicable to the city, prevent crimes, protect lives and property, maintain
the peace, serve process on behalf of the city, and have such additional powers
and duties as are prescribed by law, by this code and as the city council may
determine. (2008 Code)
FR929Â Â Â 5-2.txt
CHAPTER 2
FIRE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-2-1: Department Continued
5-2-2: Duties
5-2-3: Fire Service Fees
5-2-1: DEPARTMENT CONTINUED:
The volunteer fire department of the city, duly incorporated under the laws of
the state of Minnesota, is hereby continued. (2008 Code)
5-2-2: DUTIES:
Members of the fire department shall perform such duties relating to the
extinguishment and prevention of fires, protection of life and property from
fires, and have such other powers and duties relating to firefighting and fire
prevention as are prescribed by law, by this code and as the city council may
determine. (2008 Code)
5-2-3: FIRE SERVICE FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose And Intent: This section is adopted for the purpose of
authorizing the city of Frazee to charge for fire service as authorized by
Minnesota statutes sections 366.011, 366.012, and 415.01.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Definitions:
Â Â Â FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT: A contract between the city and a town or other
city for the city to provide fire service.
Â Â Â FIRE SERVICE: Any deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to
extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to protect
equipment, life, or property in an area threatened by fire. It also includes
the deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to provide fire
suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire and
rescue as may occasionally occur.
Â Â Â FIRE SERVICE CHARGE: The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
Â Â Â MOTOR VEHICLE: Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes semitrailers. It does
not include snowmobiles, manufactured homes, all-terrain vehicles, or park
trailers.
Â Â Â MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT: An agreement between the city and a town or other city
for the city's fire department to provide assistance to the fire department of
a town or other city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Parties Affected:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Owners of property within the city who receive fire service.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Anyone who receives fire service as a result of a motor vehicle
accident or fire within the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Owners of property in towns or cities to which the city provides
fire service pursuant to a fire protection contract.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Rates: Rates will be established annually by resolution.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Billing And Collection:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Parties requesting and receiving fire services may be billed
directly by the city. Additionally, if the party receiving fire services did
not request services but a fire or other situation exists which, at the
discretion of the fire department personnel in charge requires fire service,
the party will be charged and billed. All parties will be billed whether or not
the fire service is covered by insurance. Any billable amount of the fire
charge not covered by a party's insurance remains a debt of the party receiving
the fire service.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Parties billed for fire service will have sixty (60) days to pay. If
the fire service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered
delinquent and the city will send a notice of delinquency.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â If the fire service charge remains unpaid for thirty (30) days after
this notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and
reasonable legal means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving
fire service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â If the fire service charge remains unpaid for thirty (30) days after
the notice of delinquency is sent, the city council may also, on or before
October 15 of each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the county
auditor in which the recipient of the services owns real property for
collection with property taxes. The county auditor is responsible for remitting
to the city all charges collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the
property owner notice of its intent to certify the unpaid fire service charge
by September 15.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â False alarms will be billed as a fire call per the annually approved
rates.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Mutual Aid Agreement: When the city fire department provides fire
service to another fire department pursuant to a mutual aid agreement, the
billing will be determined by the mutual aid agreement.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Application Of Collections To Budget: All collected fire charges will
be city funds and used to offset the expenses of the city fire department in
providing fire services. (Ord. 147, 10-10-2011)
CHAPTER 3
RESCUE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-3-1: Created
5-3-2: Council To Govern
5-3-3: Fees
5-3-1: CREATED:
A rescue department is hereby created for the specific purpose of providing
rescue services to the residents of the city and surrounding townships. (Ord.
98, 6-4-1990)
5-3-2: COUNCIL TO GOVERN:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The rescue department shall be governed by the city council pursuant to
the bylaws which the council shall separately adopt.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The city council shall have the power to amend the bylaws of the rescue
department and to adopt such ordinances as are reasonable and necessary to
promote the health, safety and general welfare of the residents served by the
rescue department. (Ord. 98, 6-4-1990)
5-3-3: FEES:
The city council shall have the power to assess fees for use of the rescue
department, the income from which shall be deposited in the accounts of the
city as directed by the city council. (Ord. 98, 6-4-1990)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-4-1: State Criminal Code Adopted
5-4-1: STATE CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED:
Except insofar as the application thereof is clearly impractical or
inappropriate, in view of the context of purposes or penalty as provided, all
of the definitions, requirements, regulations, prohibitions, provisions and
sections of the Minnesota criminal code, Minnesota statutes chapter 609, as
amended, are hereby adopted by the city. One copy of the state criminal code is
on file in the office of the city clerk-treasurer for public use and
inspection. Any and all violations of the regulations adopted herein shall be
considered violations of this chapter, and each such violation shall subject
the violator thereof to penalty provisions under section 1-4A-1 of this code.
(2008 Code)
CHAPTER 5
ANIMAL CONTROL 1
SECTION:
5-5-1: Definition Of Open District
5-5-2: Animals Restricted
5-5-3: Permit Requirements
5-5-4: Animal Houses
5-5-5: Use Of Manure
5-5-6: At Large Animals; Tying Animals To Public Fixtures
5-5-7: Cruelty To Animals
5-5-8: Slaughtering Animals
5-5-9: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
Â 
Notes
1 1. See subsections 4-1-20B and D and section 4-3-3 of this code for animal
  nuisances.
5-5-1: DEFINITION OF OPEN DISTRICT:
When used in this chapter, the term "open district" means an outlying area
where there are not more than three (3) residences, other than that occupied by
the owner or occupant of the premises, within five hundred feet (500') of the
structure housing or encircling an animal or animals to which this chapter
applies. (Ord. 104, 10-5-1992)
5-5-2: ANIMALS RESTRICTED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Cats and Dogs: No more than three (3) of any combination of dogs and
cats, more than three (3) months old, shall be kept on any premises within the
city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Farm Animals: No cow, donkey, goat, horse, mule, pony, sheep, swine, or
other farm animals shall be kept on any premises within the city, except in an
open district, unless a permit is issued pursuant to section
5-5-3 of this chapter. Chickens may be allowed, as specified in subsection C of
this section.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Chickens: The following requirements shall be met in order to keep
chickens on a premises within the city:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No more than four (4) chickens shall be kept on the premises;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Chickens shall be kept in a coop or attached coop run/enclose at all
times;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No roosters shall be kept on the premises;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The premises must be located in the Single and Two-Family
Residential (R-1) or Limited Multiple-Family Residential (R-2) zoning district;
and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The premises must have a lot area of at least five thousand (5,000)
square feet.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Prohibited Animals: It is unlawful for any person to keep, maintain, or
harbor any of the following animals:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any animals or species prohibited by Minnesota Statute or Federal
Law; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any non-domesticated animal which is not naturally tame or gentle
but is of a wild nature or disposition or which because of its size, vicious
nature, or other characteristics would constitute a danger to human health,
safety, or property, including but not limited to the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Any skunk, whether captured in the wild, domestically raised, de-
scented or not de-scented, vaccinated against rabies or not vaccinated against
rabies;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Any large cat of the family Fedliae such as lions, tigers,
jaguars, leopards, cougars, and ocelots, except commonly accepted domesticated
house cats;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Any member of the family Canidae, such as wolves, foxes, coyotes,
dingos, and jackals, except domesticated dogs;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Any crossbreed, such as the crossbreeds between dogs and coyotes
and coyotes or dogs and wolves, but does not include crossbred domesticated
animals;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Any poisonous snake, such as a rattle snake, coral snake, water
moccasin, and cobra;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Any boa constrictor or snake or reptile which by its size,
vicious nature, or other characteristic is dangerous to human beings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Any raccoon, ferret, mink, or weasel;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Any bear, ape, gorilla, monkey, or badger; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Any other animal which is not listed explicitly above, but which
can be reasonably defined as non-domesticated.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Exemptions: The following are exempt from this Ordinance:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Small non-poisonous, non-venomous, and non-invasive animals, which
by their size and other characteristics are not dangerous to human beings, and
that are kept in cages continuously. Such animals may include birds, guinea
pigs, lizards, rabbits, and snakes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Animals kept by public zoo, public school, research institution, or
veterinary hospital, provided such animals are safely kept and do not create a
public nuisance. (Ord. 163, 9-19-2022)
5-5-3: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Qualifications: The police department may issue a permit allowing
animals listed in section
5-5-2 of this chapter to be kept in an area other than an open district. No
permit shall be issued unless the police department determines, after an
inspection, that no nuisance will be created. A permit may be issued under this
section only in the following instances: (Ord. 104, 10-5-1992; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Where the animals were lawfully kept on the lot prior to January 1,
1992; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Where the animals were lawfully kept on a lot pursuant to section
5-5-2 of this chapter without a permit, and subsequently, an additional
residence or residences were constructed within five hundred feet (500').
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Term Of Permit; Renewals: Permits shall be for one year and may not be
renewed without reinspection. (Ord. 104, 10-5-1992)
5-5-4: ANIMAL HOUSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Construction: Every stable or other building wherein any animals listed
in section
5-5-2 of this chapter are kept shall be constructed of such material and in
such a manner that it can be kept clean and sanitary at all times. The police
department may, if deemed necessary in order to avoid a nuisance, require that
any such building be screened tightly against flies and/or that it be provided
with running water, drain sewer connections, provide flooring impervious to
water, and that such other measures be taken as may be necessary to ensure
proper protection to public health and safety. (Ord. 104, 10-5-1992; amd. 2008
Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Location Restrictions: No chicken coop, dove cote, dog kennel, rabbit
warren, or other yard or establishment where small animals or fowl are kept
shall be maintained closer than forty feet (40') to any tenement or apartment
house; hotel; restaurant; boarding house; retail food store; building used for
school, religious or hospital purposes; or residence other than that occupied
by the owner or occupant of the premises upon which said creatures are kept.
(Ord. 104, 10-5-1992)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Sanitation: All structures, pens, coops, or yards in which animals or
fowl are kept or permitted shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, devoid of all rodents and vermin, and free from objectionable odors.
The police department, upon the complaint of any individual, shall inspect any
such structure or premises and issue any such order as may be necessary to
carry out the provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 104, 10-5-1992; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Manure Receptacle Required: Every stable or other building occupied by
authority of a special permit shall, if located within two hundred feet (200')
of any tenement or apartment house; retail food store; hotel; restaurant;
boarding house; building used for school, religious or hospital purposes; or
residence other than that occupied by the owner or occupant of the premises
upon which said creatures are kept, be provided with a watertight and flytight
receptacle for manure, of such dimension as to contain all accumulations of
manure, which receptacle shall be emptied sufficiently often and in such manner
as to prevent its becoming a nuisance. The receptacle shall be kept securely
covered at all times except when open during the deposit or removal of manure
or refuse. No manure shall be allowed to accumulate except in such receptacle.
(Ord. 104, 10-5-1992)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Appeals: An order or decision of the police department may be appealed
to the council. Any person appealing an order or decision of the police
department shall receive a hearing by the council, after which the council may
uphold, modify, or overrule the police department's order or decision in
accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 104, 10-5-1992; amd. 2008 Code)
5-5-5: USE OF MANURE:
No manure shall be dumped or left on any street, alley or sidewalk nor on any
open area or lot in any inhabited portion of the city. (Ord. 104, 10-5-1992;
amd. 2008 Code)
5-5-6: AT LARGE ANIMALS; TYING ANIMALS TO PUBLIC FIXTURES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person shall take or herd any horse, cow or other domestic animal
upon any street, alley, or public grounds of the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No person shall permit any horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, sheep, goat,
swine, rabbit, chicken, goose, duck, or turkey, of which he is the owner, to be
off the premises owned or rented by the animal's owner, unless accompanied by
the owner or his agent or employee.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â No person shall fasten any animal to a light or utility pole, parking
meter, or other fixture attached to a street or sidewalk. (Ord. 104, 10-5-1992)
5-5-7: CRUELTY TO ANIMALS:
No person shall inhumanely, unnecessarily, or cruelly beat, injure, or abuse
any animal in any way. (Ord. 104, 10-5-1992)
5-5-8: SLAUGHTERING ANIMALS:
Except for commercial purposes, after having obtained a permit from the police
department, no person shall slaughter cattle, sheep, or swine within the city.
(Ord. 104, 10-5-1992; amd. 2008 Code)
5-5-9: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor offense, punishable as
provided in section 1-4A-1 of this code. Administrative penalty provisions of
title 1, chapter 4, article B of this code also apply. (Ord. 104, 10-5-1992;
amd. 2008 Code)
ARTICLE A. DOGS
SECTION:
5-5A-1: License Requirements
5-5A-2: Running At Large
5-5A-3: Dog Pound; Dog Catcher And Poundmaster
5-5A-4: Impoundment And Redemption Provisions
5-5A-5: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
5-5A-1: LICENSE REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â License Required; Fee: No person shall own, keep, or harbor any dog
over the age of three (3) months within the city unless a license therefore has
first been secured. Licenses shall be issued by the city clerk-treasurer for a
fee as set by resolution of the city council for each dog. It shall be the duty
of each person owning, keeping, or harboring a dog to pay a license fee imposed
by this subsection to the city clerk-treasurer on or before December 31 in each
year, or upon acquiring ownership or possession of any unlicensed dog.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Rabies Vaccination Required: Every application for a license shall be
accompanied by a certificate from a qualified veterinarian showing that the dog
to be licensed has been given a vaccination against rabies within a period of
one year preceding the application for license.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Receipts For License: Upon payment of the license fee, the city clerk-
treasurer shall execute a receipt in duplicate, the original of which shall be
delivered to the person who pays the fee, and the duplicate retained in the
records of the city.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Tags: The city clerk-treasurer shall also procure a sufficient number
of suitable metallic tags and shall deliver one appropriate tag to the owner
when the fee is paid. The owner shall cause said tag to be affixed to the
collar of the dog so licensed.
(Ord. 93A, 2-18-1985; amd. 2008 Code; Ord. 169, 10-25-2023)
5-5A-2: RUNNING AT LARGE:
No person who owns, keeps, or harbors any dog, whether licensed or not, shall
permit or allow said dog to run at large within the limits of the city. This
restriction shall not prohibit the appearance of any dog upon the streets,
public places, or public property in the city, when such dog is on a leash and
is kept under control of the accompanying person, and dogs running at large in
violation of this section are hereby declared to be a public nuisance, and the
police officers, dog catcher, or poundmaster of the city are hereby authorized
and empowered to impound such dog, or to destroy the same in a summary manner,
if said dog cannot safely be impounded. (Ord. 93A, 2-18-1985)
5-5A-3: DOG POUND; DOG CATCHER AND POUNDMASTER:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Dog Pound Designated: The city council shall, from time to time,
designate a place as the city dog pound where suitable arrangements are made
for keeping and maintaining any dogs which may be seized or taken into custody
by any officer of the city, pursuant to this article.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Dog Catcher And Poundmaster:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Appointment: The city council shall, from time to time, appoint an
official dog catcher and poundmaster, who shall have the authority of a city
police officer insofar as necessary or proper in the enforcement of this
article.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Oath, Bond And Compensation: The dog catcher and poundmaster shall
subscribe an oath and give such bond as the city council may determine. They
shall have such compensation as the city council shall determine. (Ord. 93A, 2-
18-1985)
5-5A-4: IMPOUNDMENT AND REDEMPTION PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authority: It shall be the duty of any city police officer and the dog
catcher to impound any dog found running at large in the city or which may be
harbored or kept contrary to any provisions of this article. (Ord. 93A, 2-18-
1985; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notice Of Impoundment: When any dog is impounded as provided in this
article, the chief of police shall be notified immediately and shall forthwith
post in a conspicuous place in the city notice of impounding which shall
specify a description of the dog by sex, color, and breed and the name of the
owner if known, and shall give notice that unless the dog is redeemed on or
before a specified date, which shall not be less than three (3) days
thereafter, the dog will be destroyed or otherwise disposed of as provided by
this article. (Ord. 93A, 2-18-1985)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Care Of Impounded Dogs: It shall be the duty of the poundmaster to
provide sustenance for all dogs that may be impounded. (Ord. 6, 7-27-1891; amd.
Ord. 93A, 2-18-1985; 2008 Code)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Redemption Of Impounded Dog; Fee: Any dog impounded may be redeemed by
the owner by payment to the poundmaster of an impounding fee as established by
resolution of the city council, plus the daily boarding charge for each day of
impoundment after the first day, and in addition thereto, a proper license
shall be obtained for said dog, as provided by this article, if it is an
unlicensed dog, together with rabies vaccination as herein provided. (Ord. 93A,
2-18-1985; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Breaking Into Pound: It shall be unlawful for any person to break into
or in any manner, directly or indirectly, aid or assist in the breaking open of
any city pound.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Obstructing Dog Catcher: It shall be unlawful for any person to hinder,
delay or obstruct any person engaged in driving to the city pound any dog
liable to be impounded in the city. (Ord. 6, 7-27-1891; amd. 2008 Code)
5-5A-5: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person, firm, or corporation violating any provision of this article shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided in section 1-4A-1 of this code. Administrative penalty provisions of
title 1, chapter 4, article B of this code also apply. (Ord. 93A, 2-18-1985;
amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 6
MINORS
SECTION:
5-6-1: Curfew
5-6-1: CURFEW:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Definitions: For the purpose of this section, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
Â Â Â EMERGENCY ERRANDS: A task that, if not completed promptly, threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor's household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or humanmade calamity.
Â Â Â OFFICIAL CITY TIME: The time of day as determined by reference to the master
clock used by the police department.
Â Â Â PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT, OR REFRESHMENT: Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
Â Â Â PRIMARY CARE OR PRIMARY CUSTODY: The person who is responsible for providing
food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor. The person
providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another minor.
Â Â Â SCHOOL ACTIVITY: An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
Â Â Â VACANT LOT: A parcel of property that is not occupied by a permanent
dwelling and does not adjoin the property where the dwelling occupied by the
minor is located.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Age And Hour Restrictions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Minors:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Minors Under Age Of Sixteen: No minor under the age of sixteen
(16) years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds
or other public grounds, public places, or public buildings; nor in or upon
places of amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant
lot, between the hours of nine thirty o'clock (9:30) P.M. and five o'clock (5:
00) A.M. the following day, official city time.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Minors Ages Sixteen To Eighteen: No minor of the ages of sixteen
(16) or seventeen (17) years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys,
parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places, or public buildings;
nor in or upon places of amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or
upon any vacant lot, between the hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) midnight and
five o'clock (5:00) A.M. the following day, official city time.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Parks 1 : It shall be unlawful for any person to use, occupy, or
enter any public park within the city between the hours of ten o'clock (10:00)
P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the following day, official city time.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Loitering At Businesses Prohibited:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating
or in charge of any place of amusement, entertainment or refreshment, or any
other place of business located within the city to permit a minor to loiter,
loaf, or idle in such a place during the hours prohibited by this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Whenever the owner or person in charge or in control of any place of
amusement, entertainment, refreshment, or other place of business located
within the city shall find minors loitering, loafing, or idling in such place
of business, he shall immediately order such persons to leave, and if such
persons refuse to leave the said place of business, the operator shall
immediately notify the police department and inform them of the violation.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Effect On Control By Responsible Adult: Nothing in this section shall
be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the curfew hours
designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent, guardian, or
other adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor; nor shall
this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of the adult person
having the primary care or custody of the minor.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Responsibility Of Parent, Guardian Or Adult: No parent, guardian, or
other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Exceptions: The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â To a minor who is upon an emergency errand.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession, or occupation and the minor's
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor's presence at work.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor's
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of first amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city's designated law enforcement provider about the minor's presence.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Misdemeanor Violation; Administrative Penalty: Any person violating any
of the provisions of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor. This section may
also be enforced through the city administrative penalties ordinance 1 . (Ord.
136, 10-8-2007)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also section 7-4-1 of this code.
1 1. See title 1, chapter 4, article B of this code.
CHAPTER 7
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS AND DANGEROUS DOGS
SECTION:
5-7-1: Definitions
5-7-2: Procedure For Designating A Dog As Potentially Dangerous Or Dangerous
5-7-3: Appeal
5-7-4: Requirements For Potentially Dangerous Dogs
5-7-5: Dangerous Dogs Prohibited
5-7-6: Restrictions On Dog Ownership
5-7-7: Penalties
5-7-1: DEFINITIONS:
The City of Frazee hereby adopts by reference the definitions provided in
Minnesota Statutes, section 347.50, as now in effect or as may be hereafter
amended. (Ord. 159, 12-20-2021; amd. Ord. 179, 12-23-2024)
5-7-2: PROCEDURE FOR DESIGNATING A DOG AS POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS OR DANGEROUS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authorized Personnel: "Authorized Personnel", as used in this chapter,
shall mean the Chief of Police (or designee).
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Authority: Authorized Personnel shall have the authority based upon
their professional judgment to designate a dog as potentially dangerous or
dangerous as defined in state law or in this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Potentially Dangerous Dog Designation: Any dog within the City of
Frazee may be designated as potentially dangerous if the dog:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a person
on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private property,
other than the dog owner's property, in an apparent attitude of attack; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Dangerous Dog Designation: Any dog within the City of Frazee may be
designated as dangerous if the dog:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a human
being on public or private property;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the owner's
property; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Exemptions. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to dogs used by
law enforcement. Additionally, a dog may not be designated as potentially
dangerous or dangerous if the threat, injury, or damage was sustained by a
person who was:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Committing, at the time, a willful trespass or other tort upon the
premises occupied by the owner of the dog;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Provoking, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or who can be
shown to have repeatedly, in the past, provoked, tormented, abused, or
assaulted the dog; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Committing or attempting to commit a crime.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Notice of Designation: Upon a designation by Authorized Personnel that
a dog is potentially dangerous or dangerous, the City shall provide notice of
the designation to the dog's owner by serving a designation notice upon the
owner in the same manner as provided for service of civil process or by
certified mail with return receipt requested. Mailed notice shall be effective
three (3) days after mailing to the owner's last known address. The designation
notice shall include the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A description of the dog designated as potentially dangerous or
dangerous;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The factual basis for that determination;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The name of the Authorized Personnel making the determination;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Notice of applicable requirements; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Notice of right to appeal.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Immediate Compliance with State Law: Upon notification that a dog has
been designated as potentially dangerous or dangerous, the dog's owner must
comply with all state law requirements for confining, leashing, muzzling, and
physically restraining the dog. (Ord. 159, 12-20-2021; amd. Ord. 179, 12-23-
2024)
5-7-3: APPEAL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Appeal Statement: The owner of any dog designated as potentially
dangerous or dangerous may appeal the designation by a written appeal statement
received at the office of the City Administrator within ten (10) days after the
designation notice is served upon the owner. Failure to provide or submit a
complete written appeal statement during this time period will terminate the
owner's right to a hearing under subsection B of this section. The owner's
written appeal statement must include the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The owner's full name, physical and mailing address, and phone
number;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The ownership interest of the person requesting the appeal;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The names of any witnesses to be called at the hearing;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A list and copies of all exhibits to be presented at the hearing;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â A summary statement as to why the dog should not be designated
potentially dangerous or dangerous; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â A written behavioral assessment prepared by a licensed veterinarian
or certified animal professional describing the dog's normal behaviors toward
unknown persons, and may include recommendations regarding the potentially
dangerous or dangerous designation, future care and training, and possible re-
evaluation of the dog.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Hearing: The City Administrator shall hold a hearing within fourteen
(14) days after receipt of the appeal statement. The City shall mail to the
owner, at the address provided on the appeal statement, a written notice of the
hearing. Written notice of the hearing shall be mailed to any person known to
be an alleged victim of the dog that is the subject of the hearing. Within ten
(10) days after conclusion of the hearing, the City Administrator shall make
written findings of fact and a written decision as to whether the dog is
potentially dangerous or dangerous pursuant to this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Findings: The City Administrator's findings and decision must be served
upon the dog's owner in the same manner as the designation notice provided
above. Notice of the decision is effective upon delivery or mailing.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Court Appeal: The decision of the City Administrator is final but may
be appealed by a writ of certiorari to the district court within thirty (30)
days after notice of the decision.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Compliance: If the City Administrator upholds the designation made by
Authorized Personnel, the dog's owner must comply with the requirements of
state law and this chapter. (Ord. 159, 12-20-2021; amd. Ord. 179, 12-23-2024)
5-7-4: REQUIREMENTS FOR POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS:
No potentially dangerous dog shall be kept in the City of Frazee unless the
owner, at their own cost, has implanted a microchip in the dog containing: the
owner's full name, physical and mailing address, and phone number; an alternate
contact person's full name and phone number; and the chip identification
number. Also, the owner shall complete an application to register the dog as
potentially dangerous with the City and submit said application, along with the
accompanying registration fee, to the Deputy City Clerk. The registration shall
be valid for up to one (1) year. A new application and fee must be submitted
annually, or if the ownership or location of the dog is changed in any way.
Additionally, the owner shall be required to post a sign, approved by
Authorized Personnel, at the owner's residence notifying the public of the
presence of a potentially dangerous dog. These requirements shall apply whether
said designation occurred in the City or in some other jurisdiction.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Application Contents: The application to register the dog as a
potentially dangerous dog shall include the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The owner's full name, physical and mailing address, and phone
number;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â An alternate contact person's full name and phone number;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The physical address where the dog is kept, if different than the
owner's physical address;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The implanted microchip identification number;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Proof of continuing liability insurance in a single incident amount
of three hundred thousand dollars ($300,000.00) for bodily injury to or death
of any person or persons or for damage to property owned by any persons, which
may result from the ownership, keeping, or maintenance of a dog designated as
potentially dangerous;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Proof that said dog has been sterilized and has current
vaccinations; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â A registration fee of two hundred dollars ($200.00). (Ord. 179, 12-
23-2024)
5-7-5: DANGEROUS DOGS PROHIBITED:
It shall be illegal for any person to own, keep, possess, or harbor any dog
that has been designated as dangerous. This prohibition shall apply whether
said designation occurred in the City or in some other jurisdiction. This
prohibition shall also apply whether said designation was made as defined in
Minnesota Statutes, section 347.50, or pursuant to another statute or ordinance
which is substantially similar to Minnesota Statutes, section 347.50.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Any dangerous dog shall be immediately seized by Authorized Personnel
and impounded for no fewer than ten (10) days. The owner has until the end
ofthis time period to provide written verification that the dog will be legally
removed from the City, including the physical address where the dog will be
relocated to and the full name of the new owner, if any, or that the dog will
be humanely euthanized.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The owner must pay all associated impounding and boarding costs prior
to the release of the dog. Upon its release, the dog shall be immediately
transported to a location outside of the City, or to a proper facility to be
euthanized.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Any such dog that is not claimed and removed from the City within ten
(10) days shall be humanely euthanized. The owner of a dog that is euthanized
under this chapter shall be responsible to pay the impounding, boarding, and
euthanization costs. (Ord. 179, 12-23-2024)
5-7-6: RESTRICTIONS ON DOG OWNERSHIP:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Dog Ownership Prohibited: Except as provided in subsection C of this
section, no person may own a dog if the person has:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Been convicted of a third or subsequent violation of Minnesota
Statutes, sections 347.51, 347.515, or 347.52;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Been convicted of a violation under Minnesota Statutes, section
609.205, clause (4);
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Been convicted of a gross misdemeanor under Minnesota Statutes,
section 609.226, subdivision 1;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Been convicted of a violation under Minnesota Statutes, section
609.226, subdivision 2; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Had a dog ordered destroyed under Minnesota Statutes, section 347.56
and been convicted of one or more violations of Minnesota Statutes, sections
347.51, 347.515, 347.52, or 609.226, subdivision 2.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Household Members: If any member of a household is prohibited from
owning a dog in subsection A of this section, unless specifically approved with
or without restrictions by Authorized Personnel, no person in the household is
permitted to own a dog.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Dog Ownership Prohibition Review: Beginning three (3) years after a
conviction under subsection A of this section that prohibits a person from
owning a dog, and annually thereafter, the person may request that Authorized
Personnel review the prohibition. Authorized Personnel may consider such facts
as the seriousness of the violation or violations that led to the prohibition,
any criminal convictions, or other facts that Authorized Personnel deems
appropriate. Authorized Personnel may rescind the prohibition entirely or
rescind it with limitations. Authorized Personnel also may establish conditions
a person must meet before the prohibition is rescinded, including, but not
limited to, successfully completing dog training or dog handling courses. If
Authorized Personnel rescinds a person's prohibition and the person
subsequently fails to comply with any limitations imposed by Authorized
Personnel or the person is convicted of any animal violation involving
unprovoked bites or dog attacks, Authorized Personnel may permanently prohibit
the person from owning a dog in this state. (Ord. 179, 12-23-2024)
5-7-7: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be a misdemeanor offense to:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Be an owner or be in possession of a potentially dangerous or
dangerous dog in violation of the requirements set forth in this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Allow a potentially dangerous dog to "run at large". When off the
owner's property, a dog designated as potentially dangerous must be leashed and
be under the control of a competent adult at all times, as well as comply with
all other requirements of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If a dog is not registered with the City within fourteen (14) days of
notification by Authorized Personnel of its designation as a potentially
dangerous dog, Authorized Personnel shall impound and hold the dog until it is
brought into compliance with this chapter. If not brought into compliance
within ten (10) days after impoundment, the dog may be euthanized. The owner of
said dog shall be responsible to pay the impounding, boarding, and
euthanization costs. (Ord. 159, 12-20-2021; amd. Ord. 179, 12-23-2024)
CHAPTER 8
CANNABIS AND CANNABIS DERIVED PRODUCTS
SECTION:
5-8-1: Purpose And Intent
5-8-2: Definitions
5-8-3: Prohibited Acts
5-8-4: Penalty
5-8-1: DEPOSITS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
Â Â Â This chapter is adopted by the Frazee City Council for the purpose of
protecting public health and safety by REGULATING/PROHIBITING the use of
Cannabis and cannabis derived products in public places and places of public
accommodation within the City of Frazee.
Â Â Â By enacting 2023 Session Law, Chapter 63, H. F. No. 100 [hereinafter
referred to âState Legislationâ], the Minnesota Legislature passed the adult-
use cannabis bill. Under that bill, the adult use, possession and personal
growing of cannabis will become legal August 1, 2023.
Â Â Â State legislation authorizes adoption of a local ordinance establishing a
petty misdemeanor offense for public use of cannabis. See State Legislation
Sec. 19, Minn. Stat. 152.0263, Subd. 5, or successor statute.
Â Â Â The City wishes to be proactive in protecting public health and safety by
enacting regulations that will mitigate threats presented to the public by the
public use of cannabis.
Â Â Â The City of Frazee (hereinafter âthe Cityâ) recognizes the risks that
unintended access and use of cannabis products present to the health, welfare,
and safety of youth in the City of Frazee.
(Ord. 167, 8-14-2023)
5-8-2: DEFINITIONS:
Â Â Â Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The following words, terms,
and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall have the meanings ascribed to
them except where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
ADULT-USE      Cannabis flower that is approved for sale by the State Office of Cannabis
CANNABIS       Management or is substantially similar to a product approved by the office.
FLOWER:        Adult-use cannabis flower does not include medical cannabis flower, hemp plant
               parts, or hemp- derived consumer products.
ADULT-USE      A cannabis product that is approved for sale by the State Office of Cannabis
CANNABIS       Management or is substantially similar to a product approved by the office.
PRODUCTS:      Adult-use cannabis product includes edible cannabis products but does not
               include medical cannabinoid products or lower-potency hemp edibles.
               The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a cannabis plant. Cannabis
CANNABIS       flower includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical cannabis flower. Cannabis
FLOWER:        flower does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant parts, or hemp-derived
               consumer products.
CANNABIS       Any of the following:
PRODUCT:
Â              1.Â Â Â cannabis concentrate;
               2.Â Â Â a product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited to
Â              tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
               flower; or
Â              3.Â Â Â any other product that contains cannabis concentrate.
HEMP DERIVED   1.Â Â Â A product intended for human or animal consumption, does not contain
CONSUMER       cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and:
PRODUCTS:
Â              Â Â Â a.Â Â Â contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or
Â              Â Â Â b.Â Â Â contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived cannabinoids in
               combination with other ingredients.
               2.Â Â Â Hemp-derived consumer products does not include artificially derived
Â              cannabinoids, lower- potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical products, hemp
               fiber products, or hemp grain.
LOWER-POTENCY  Any product that:
HEMP EDIBLE:   1.Â Â Â is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
Â              2.Â Â Â contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived cannabinoid; in
               combination with food ingredients;
Â              3.Â Â Â is not a drug;
               4.Â Â Â consists of servings that contain no more than five milligrams of delta-
Â              9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabidiol, 25 milligrams of
               cannabigerol, or any combination of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the
               identified amounts;
Â              5.Â Â Â does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5 milligrams of all other
               cannabinoids per serving;
Â              6.Â Â Â does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than delta-
               9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
Â              7.Â Â Â does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
               flower; and
               8.Â Â Â is a type of product approved for sale by the office or is substantially
Â              similar to a product approved by the office, including but not limited to
               products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked goods.
PLACE OF       A business, refreshment, entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility
PUBLIC         of any kind, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or
ACCOMMODATION: accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
               public.
Â              Exceptions to public place or place of public accommodation. âA public placeâ or
               âa place of public accommodationâ does not include the following:
Â              1.Â Â Â a private residence, including the individualâs curtilage or yard.
               2. a private property, not generally accessible by the public, unless the
Â              individual is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower, cannabis
               products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products on the
               property by the owner of the property; or
Â              3. on the premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit on-site
               consumption.
               A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk, any enclosed, indoor area
               used by the general public, including, but not limited to, theaters,
PUBLIC PLACE:  restaurants, bars, food establishments, places licensed to sell intoxicating
               liquor, wine, or malt beverages, retail businesses, gyms, common areas in
               buildings, public shopping areas, auditoriums, arenas, or other places of public
               accommodation.
               Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated cigar, cigarette,
               pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing cannabis flower,
SMOKING:       cannabis products, artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-derived consumer
               products. Smoking includes carrying or using an activated electronic delivery
               device for human consumption through inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the
               product.
Â 
(Ord. 167, 8-14-2023)
5-8-3: PROHIBITED ACTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency
hemp edibles, or hemp- derived consumer products in a public place or a place
of public accommodation unless the premises is an establishment or an event
licensed to permit on-site consumption of adult-use cannabis flower and adult
use cannabis products. See State Legislation Sec. 9 Minn. Stat. 342.09 Subd. 1
(2) or successor statute. See also State Legislation Minn. Stat. 342.09 Subd. 1
(7)(iii) or successor statute, and State Legislation Sec. 19 Minn. Stat.
152.0263, Subd. 5, or successor statute.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No person shall vaporize or smoke cannabis flower, cannabis products,
artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-derived consumer products in any
location where the smoke, aerosol, or vapor would be inhaled by a minor. See
State Legislation Sec. 9 Minn. Stat. 342.09, Subd. 1(7)(b)(9) or successor
statute.
(Ord. 167, 8-14-2023)
5-8-4: PENALTY:
Â Â Â Criminal Penalty. A violation of this chapter shall be a petty misdemeanor
subject to a fine payable up to $300. Nothing in this chapter prohibits the
City from seeking prosecution for an alleged violation.
(Ord. 167, 8-14-2023)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
TRAFFIC CODE; GENERAL TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Regulations Adopted
6-1-2: Speed Limits
6-1-3: Stop Streets
6-1-4: Unlawful Vehicle Operation
6-1-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED 1 :
The regulatory provisions of Minnesota statutes chapter 169, known as the
highway traffic regulation act, as amended, are hereby adopted as a traffic
ordinance regulating the use of highways, streets and alleys within the city
and are hereby incorporated in and made a part of this title as completely as
if set forth herein. One copy of the highway traffic regulation act is on file
in the office of the city clerk- treasurer for public use and inspection. (2008
Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also section 6-2-1 of this title.
6-1-2: SPEED LIMITS:
Unless otherwise posted, the speed of automobiles in the city shall be thirty
(30) miles per hour. (Ord. 60, 7-7-1937; amd. 2008 Code)
6-1-3: STOP STREETS:
The city council shall cause to be installed and placed the appropriate stop
signs or signals for drivers of motor vehicles to stop before crossing the
streets and highways in the city. Any person failing to stop at said stop sign
or signal shall be punishable as provided in section 1-4A-1 of this code. (Ord.
59, 10-1-1934; amd. 2008 Code)
6-1-4: UNLAWFUL VEHICLE OPERATION:
No person shall operate any vehicle in the city in such a manner as to create
or cause unnecessary engine noise, tire squeals, skids, or slides upon
acceleration or stopping, or in such a manner as to stimulate a race or
temporary race or as to cause such vehicle to unnecessarily sway or turn
abruptly. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section shall be
guilty of a petty misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by a fine of not to exceed three hundred dollars ($300.00) or loss of driving
privileges pursuant to Minnesota statutes, or both. (Ord. 82, 4-5-1976; amd.
2008 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: State Regulations Adopted
6-2-2: Method Of Parking
6-2-3: Parking Prohibited In Specified Places
6-2-4: General Parking Restrictions
6-2-5: Parking For Persons With Disabilities
6-2-6: Recreational Vehicle And Trailer Parking
6-2-7: Truck And Machinery Parking
6-2-8: Time Limit Parking And No Parking Zones
6-2-9: Loading Zones
6-2-10: Winter Parking
6-2-11: Enforcement And Penalties
6-2-1: STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED 1 :
The definitions and parking restrictions of Minnesota statutes chapter 168 and
chapter 169 are adopted by reference and shall govern the parking of vehicles
within the city. (Ord. 134, 5-14-2007)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also section 6-1-1 of this title.
6-2-2: METHOD OF PARKING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Angle Parking: The council, by resolution, may designate certain
streets for angle parking and shall mark appropriately the streets so
designated, but such angle parking shall not be indicated upon any federal aid,
state, or county highways within the city unless the appropriate highway
authority has determined that the roadway is of sufficient width to permit
angle parking without interference with the free movement of traffic. On any
such street, every vehicle parked shall be parked with the front of such
vehicle facing the curb or the edge of the traveled portions of the street at
an angle approximately forty five degrees (45Â°) and facing between the painted
or other markings on the curb or street indicating the parking space. No
vehicle, however, shall be parked, at an angle, the length of which is more
than twenty two feet (22').
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Parallel Parking: On all streets not designated for angle parking,
vehicles shall be parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway in
accordance with law. (Ord. 134, 5-14-2007)
6-2-3: PARKING PROHIBITED IN SPECIFIED PLACES:
It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
directions of a police officer or traffic control device, in any of the
following places 1 : (Ord. 134, 5-14-2007; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â On a sidewalk.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â In front of a public or private driveway.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Within an intersection.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Within ten feet (10') of a fire hydrant.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â On a crosswalk.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at an intersection.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Within fifty feet (50') of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Within twenty feet (20') of the driveway entrance to any fire station
and on the side of the street opposite the entrance to any fire station within
seventy five feet (75') of said entrance when properly signposted.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when such
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street (i.e., double parking).
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â In a signposted fire lane.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â On any boulevard.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, parking, or both.
(Ord. 134, 5-14-2007)
Â 
Notes
1 1. MSA Â§ 169.34.
6-2-4: GENERAL PARKING RESTRICTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Alley Parking: No vehicle, except those used by the city for fire or
police work and ambulances used for emergency hospital work, shall be parked or
let stand in any alley for a period exceeding three (3) minutes, except trucks
actually being loaded or unloaded.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Sales And Storage Of Vehicles:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No vehicle shall be parked or let stand on any street or city
parking lot for the purpose of displaying or offering it for sale.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No automobile dealer shall park or let stand a vehicle in a city
parking lot for the purpose of storing it temporarily or permanently.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Maximum Time To Park: No vehicle shall be parked or let stand on any
street or city parking lot for a period longer than twenty four (24) hours.
(Ord. 134, 5-14-2007)
6-2-5: PARKING FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES:
No vehicle shall park or obstruct access to a parking space designated and
reserved for the physically disabled. Such area will be marked with paint and
signposted. Vehicles parked in a space designated and reserved for the
physically disabled will have to display the required certificate, license
plate, or temporary permit 1 . (Ord. 134, 5-14-2007)
Â 
Notes
1 1. MSA Â§Â§ 169.345, 169.346.
6-2-6: RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND TRAILER PARKING:
It shall be unlawful for any person to leave or park a travel trailer
(including those that telescope or fold down), chassis mounted camper, motor
home, recreational vehicle, or any trailer (including boat, utility, and
snowmobile trailers) on any street, right of way, or in a city owned parking
lot in the city for a continuous period in excess of twenty four (24) hours,
except where signs are erected designating the place as a campsite or a mobile
home park. (Ord. 134, 5-14-2007)
6-2-7: TRUCK AND MACHINERY PARKING:
No dump truck, semitractor, trailer, heavy machinery, or tractor- trailer shall
park for longer than two (2) hours on a city street in the city, except when
loading or unloading necessitates a longer period of time. (Ord. 134, 5-14-
2007)
6-2-8: TIME LIMIT PARKING AND NO PARKING ZONES:
The council, by resolution, may designate certain areas of the city as limited
parking or no parking zones and shall mark by appropriate signs any zone so
established. Such zones shall be established wherever necessary for the
convenience of the public or to minimize traffic hazards and to preserve a free
flow of traffic. No person shall park or let stand any vehicle in any limited
parking zone between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:
00) P.M. of any weekday for a longer period than is specified on the signs
marking such zone. No person shall park or let stand any vehicle in a no
parking zone during any period in which parking is prohibited. (Ord. 134, 5-14-
2007)
6-2-9: LOADING ZONES:
The council, by resolution, may establish in each block in congested districts
one or more loading zones and shall mark by appropriate signs any zone so
established. Such zones shall be located at places most convenient for the use
of the public and with regard to traffic conditions in the block. No person
shall, between the hours of eight o'clock (8:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
P.M. of any weekday, park any vehicle in any loading zone except for the
purpose of receiving or discharging passengers or freight and then only for a
period no longer than necessary for the discharge or receipt of such passengers
or freight. (Ord. 134, 5-14-2007)
6-2-10: WINTER PARKING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Snow Emergency: Whenever, in the opinion of the public works
superintendent, an emergency exists in the city, or in a section or sections
thereof, because of snow, freezing rain, sleet, ice, or other natural
phenomenon, which creates or is likely to create hazardous road conditions
impeding, or likely to impede, the free movement of fire, health, police,
emergency, or other vehicular traffic, or the safety and welfare of the
community, the public works superintendent may declare an emergency to exist
for a period of seventy two (72) hours, but the emergency may be sooner
terminated if conditions permit. If the public works superintendent is absent
from the city or is unable to act, the emergency may be declared by the chief
of police or other designee of the public works superintendent.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notice Of Emergency: Notice of such emergency shall be given by radio,
television, or press, which news media shall be requested to cooperate with the
city officials and, when given such notice, shall constitute due and proper
notice. The notice shall specify the hour that the emergency commences, and
there shall be an interval of at least two (2) hours between the first time
that notice is given and the commencement of the emergency.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Parking Prohibitions: During the period of emergency, no vehicle shall
be parked or left standing on any street from one o'clock (1:00) A.M. to seven
o'clock (7:00) A.M. The parking of vehicles directly in front of all night
eating establishments during an emergency between the hours of one o'clock (1:
00) A.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. will not be prohibited if the owner or
operator of the vehicle is inside the eating establishment while parked and is
available to move the vehicle if it is hindering snow removal or street
cleaning operations. If the owner or operator does not remove his vehicle when
requested by a police officer or a city employee engaged in removing snow or
cleaning streets, the vehicle may be removed as provided.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Resumption Of Parking: Parking may be resumed on individual streets in
the area as soon as the snow removal or street cleaning operation is completed
except as may be otherwise restricted by ordinance. Where parking is normally
permitted on only one side of the street, vehicles parked pursuant to the
aforesaid provisions may be parked on that side of the street only. (Ord. 134,
5-14-2007)
6-2-11: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Prima Facie Evidence: The operation, parking or use of a motor vehicle
in violation of the provisions of this chapter shall be prima facie evidence
that said motor vehicle was, at the time of such violation, driven, operated,
parked, and used by the registered owner thereof.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Nuisance Declared: Any vehicle, wherever found, in violation of this
chapter or other city ordinance or the laws of the state is declared to be a
nuisance.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Authority To Remove Vehicles; Costs: A police officer may summarily
abate a nuisance vehicle by: 1) removing said vehicle and storing the same in
an appropriate place; or 2) directing or requesting another person to remove
said vehicle and store it in an appropriate place. The registered owner shall
pay all the administrative, towing, and storage fees, along with the fines
imposed by the city, of said vehicle to the person storing the vehicle before
the registered owner shall be permitted to recover said vehicle.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Penalties: This chapter may be enforced through the city administrative
penalties ordinance 1 . Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the city from
seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of this chapter. Each
violation, and every day in which a violation occurs or continues, shall
constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 134, 5-14-2007)
FR929Â Â Â 6-3.txt
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 4, article B of this code.
CHAPTER 3
BICYCLES
SECTION:
6-3-1: Speed Limit; Riding Through Processions
6-3-2: Riding On, Obstructing Sidewalks Prohibited
6-3-1: SPEED LIMIT; RIDING THROUGH PROCESSIONS:
It shall be unlawful for any person to run or race on bicycles faster than the
posted speed limit in, along or through any streets, alleys or highways or
over, on or upon any public grounds, squares, or other public property or place
within the limits of the City. No person shall so race on any bicycle in such a
manner as to endanger or unreasonably interfere with any person and shall not
ride through any civil, military, or funeral procession. Any person violating
any of the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided in section 1-4A-1 of
this Code. (Ord. 17, 6-1-1899; amd. Ord. 54, 3-17-1924; 2008 Code)
6-3-2: RIDING ON, OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS PROHIBITED:
No person shall hereafter ride or push any bicycle on, over, or along any of
the sidewalks from Juniper to Ash Avenue along Lake Street, and from 2nd Street
North East to 3rd Street North West along Main Avenue; bicycles should be
walked in this area. Bicycles shall not be used in any manner that would
obstruct sidewalks within the corporate limits of the City. Any person
violating this section shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as provided
by section 1-4A-1 of this Code. (Ord. 142, 6-14-2010)
FR929Â Â Â 6-4.txt
CHAPTER 4
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES AND SNOWMOBILES
SECTION:
6-4-1: Definitions
6-4-2: Restricted And Prohibited Operation
6-4-3: Minors
6-4-4: Equipment
6-4-5: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
6-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
All definitions in Minnesota Statutes sections 84.81 and 84.92 are adopted and
incorporated in this chapter as if fully set out herein. As used in this
chapter, the following terms shall have the definitions ascribed to them in
this section:
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV): A motorized, flotation tired vehicle of not less
than three (3) low pressure tires, but not more than six (6) tires, that is
limited in engine displacement of less than eight hundred (800) cubic
centimeters and includes a Class 1 all-terrain vehicle and a Class 2 all-
terrain vehicle, which are defined as follows:
Class 1 All-Terrain Vehicle: An all-terrain vehicle that has a total dry weight
of less than nine hundred (900) pounds.
Class 2 All-Terrain Vehicle: An all-terrain vehicle that has a total dry weight
of nine hundred (900) to one thousand five hundred (1,500) pounds.
OPERATE: To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile or all-
terrain vehicle.
SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled vehicle designated for travel on snow or ice,
steered by skis or runners. (Ord. 122, 1-5-2004; amd. 2008 Code)
6-4-2: RESTRICTED AND PROHIBITED OPERATION:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile or ATV under the
following circumstances:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â On City parks, playgrounds, recreational areas, sliding areas and
skating rinks without written permission to do so by proper public authority.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â On private property of another without written permission to do so by
the owner of said property.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â On any public sidewalk.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â On Main Avenue East or West (Becker County Highway 30), Lake Street
North or South (State Trunk Highway 87), and West Birch Avenue (Becker County
Highway 87), except when crossing the said highways at a ninety degree (90Â°)
angle. Operation on all other streets in the City is permitted in the most
right hand lane which is used for vehicle traffic in the same direction. All
snowmobiles and ATVs must obey all traffic signs and speed limits.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Between the hours of one o'clock (1:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00)
A.M., Sunday through Saturday, within the City limits. (Ord. 122, 1-5-2004)
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â The operation of Class 1 and Class 2 all-terrain vehicles is strictly
prohibited within the corporate City limits, unless approved by the Chief of
Police. (Ord. 143, 6-14-2010)
6-4-3: MINORS:
No person under the age of fourteen (14) may operate a snowmobile on public
property, including streets, alleys and highways, within the City. A person
fourteen (14) years of age and over, but less than eighteen (18) years of age,
may operate a snowmobile only if in possession of a valid snowmobile safety
certificate; a driver's license that has a qualified indicator issued under
Minnesota Statutes section 171.07, subdivision 12; or an identification card
that has a valid indicator issued under Minnesota Statutes section 171.07,
subdivision 12. (Ord. 122, 1-5-2004; amd. 2008 Code)
6-4-4: EQUIPMENT:
All snowmobiles and ATVs operated within the City shall have the following
equipment:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the noise of
operation of the vehicle to a minimum, and no person shall use a muffler
cutout, bypass, or similar device on said vehicles.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Adequate brakes, headlamps and taillamps. (Ord. 122, 1-5-2004)
6-4-5: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor. Administrative penalty provisions of title 1, chapter 4, article B
of this Code also apply. (Ord. 122, 1-5-2004; amd. 2008 Code)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
SECTION:
7-1-1: Deposits On Public Ways
7-1-2: Removal Of Snow, Ice, Dirt And Rubbish From Sidewalks
7-1-3: Repair Of Sidewalks
7-1-4: Driving Over Sidewalks
7-1-5: Use Of Public Ways
7-1-6: Obstructions And Encroachments
7-1-7: Penalty
7-1-1: DEPOSITS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
No person shall throw or deposit, or permit to be thrown or deposited, any
dirt, paper, filth, the sweepings of any house, store, shop, or office, or any
ashes, filthy water, offal, straw, wood, stones, earth, manure, or rubbish of
any kind on or into any street, sidewalk, alley, or public ground in the city.
(Ord. 7, 7-27-1891)
7-1-2: REMOVAL OF SNOW, ICE, DIRT AND RUBBISH FROM SIDEWALKS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Accumulations Prohibited; Nuisance Declared: All snow, ice, dirt, and
rubbish remaining on a public sidewalk more than twenty four (24) hours after
its deposit thereon is hereby determined to be a public nuisance. The owner and
the occupant of any property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use due
diligence to keep such walk safe for pedestrians. No such owner or occupant
shall allow snow, ice, dirt or rubbish to remain on the walk longer than twenty
four (24) hours after its deposit thereon.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Removal By City; Records Kept: The city public works superintendent or
other officials or employees of the city designated by the city council may
remove from all public sidewalks within the city all snow, ice, dirt, and
rubbish as soon as possible beginning twenty four (24) hours after any such
matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. Such
employees or officials shall keep a record showing the cost of such removal
adjacent to each separate lot and parcel and shall deliver such information to
the city clerk-treasurer. (2008 Code)
7-1-3: REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Responsibility Of Owner To Repair: The owner of any property within the
city abutting public sidewalks shall keep the sidewalk in repair and safe for
pedestrians.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Repair Specifications: Repairs shall be made in accordance with
standard specifications approved by the council and on file in the office of
the city clerk-treasurer.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Inspections; Notice To Repair: It shall be the duty of the city public
works superintendent or other officials designated by the city council to make
such inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks within the
city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians. If he finds that any sidewalk
abutting on private property is unsafe and in need of repair, he shall cause a
notice to be served, by certified or registered mail or by personal service,
upon the record owner of the property and the occupant if the owner does not
reside within the city or cannot be found therein, ordering such owner to have
the sidewalk repaired and made safe within thirty (30) days, and stating that
if the owner fails to do so, the city will have such work done, and that the
expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and that if unpaid, the entire cost
thereof will be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Repair By City; Record Of Costs: If the sidewalk is not repaired within
ninety (90) days after receipt of the notice, the city council shall by
resolution order the sidewalk repaired and made safe for pedestrians, all in
accordance with law. A record of the total cost of the repair attributable to
each lot or parcel of property shall be maintained by the city clerk-
treasurer. (2008 Code)
7-1-4: DRIVING OVER SIDEWALKS:
No person shall back or drive any vehicle over, along, or across any sidewalk
in the city, unless such sidewalk has at such place, a suitable plank or other
substantial crossing. (Ord. 7, 7-27-1891; amd. 2008 Code)
7-1-5: USE OF PUBLIC WAYS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Display Of Merchandise; Writing On Pavement:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to use any
street, sidewalk, or other public place as space for the display or sale of
goods or merchandise, or to write or mark any signs or advertisements on any
such pavements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Merchants may apply to the mayor and city council for permission to
hold sidewalk sales on certain days.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Playing Games: It is unlawful to play any games upon any street, alley,
or sidewalk where such games cause unnecessary noise or interfere with traffic
or pedestrians.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Repair Of Vehicles On Public Ways: No person shall, at any time, repair
any vehicle in any city street. (2008 Code)
7-1-6: OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Obstructions: It is unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
cause, create, or maintain any obstruction of any street, alley, sidewalk, or
other public way, except as may be specifically authorized by ordinance or by
the city council.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Encroachments: It is unlawful to erect or maintain any building or
structure which encroaches upon any public street or property.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Drains: It is unlawful to obstruct any drain in any public street or
alley. (2008 Code)
7-1-7: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be punishable as
provided in section 1-4A-1 of this code. (2008 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
7-2-1: Election To Manage Public Rights Of Way
7-2-2: Definitions
7-2-3: Permits Required; Extensions; Delay Penalty
7-2-4: Application For Permit
7-2-5: Issuance Of Permit; Conditions
7-2-6: Denial Of Permit
7-2-7: Permit Fees
7-2-8: Indemnification And Liability
7-2-9: Display Of Permit
7-2-10: Supplementary Applications
7-2-11: Inspections
7-2-12: Work Without Permit
7-2-13: Installation Requirements
7-2-14: Patching And Restoration Of Right Of Way
7-2-15: Mapping Data
7-2-16: Location Of Facilities
7-2-17: Damage To Other Facilities
7-2-18: Vacation Of Right Of Way
7-2-19: Abandoned Facilities
7-2-20: Revocation Of Permits
7-2-21: Appeals
7-2-22: Reservation Of Regulatory And Police Powers
7-2-1: ELECTION TO MANAGE PUBLIC RIGHTS OF WAY:
In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects, pursuant to
this chapter, to manage rights of way within its jurisdiction. (Ord. 131, 5-2-
2006)
7-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Statute Definitions Adopted: The definitions included in Minnesota
statutes section 237.162, Minnesota rules 7819.0100, subparts 1 through 23, and
Minnesota rules 7560.0100, subparts 1 through 12, are hereby adopted by
reference and are incorporated into this chapter as if set out in full, as said
statute and rules may be amended from time to time. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006; amd.
2008 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Director: As used in this chapter, the term "director" shall mean the
city public works superintendent or his designee. (2008 Code)
7-2-3: PERMITS REQUIRED; EXTENSIONS; DELAY PENALTY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Permits Required: Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
person may obstruct or excavate any right of way without first having obtained
the appropriate permit from the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Excavation Permit: An excavation permit is required to excavate that
part of the right of way described in such permit and to hinder free and open
passage over the specified portion of the right of way by placing facilities
described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified therein.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Obstruction Permit: An obstruction permit is required to hinder free
and open passage over the specified portion of right of way by placing
equipment described therein on the right of way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permit Extensions: No person may excavate or obstruct the right of way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless such person:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Makes a supplementary application for another right of way permit
before the expiration of the initial permit; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A new permit or permit extension is granted.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Delay Penalty: In accordance with Minnesota rules 7819.1000, subpart 3,
and notwithstanding subsection B of this section, the city shall establish and
impose a delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right of way excavation,
obstruction, patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established
from time to time by city council resolution. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
7-2-4: APPLICATION FOR PERMIT:
Application for a permit shall contain and will be considered complete only
upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions (a copy of
the application is attached to the ordinance codified herein):
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Each permittee's name, "gopher one" call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
permittee by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the director.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Verifying that the permittee is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the: 1) use and occupancy of the right of way by the permittee, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees; and 2) placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right of way by the permittee, its officers,
agents, employees and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities and collapse of property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the coverages
required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will be
provided as to all such coverages.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Requiring that the director be notified thirty (30) days in
advance of cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage
term.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile liability
coverage, workers' compensation and umbrella coverage established by the
director in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
(Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate
required to be filed under Minnesota statutes section 47.16 as recorded and
certified to by the secretary of state. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota public utilities commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have such certificate
from said commission or other state or federal agency.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Payment of money due the city for:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management costs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Prior obstructions or excavations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city because
of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights of way or any
emergency actions taken by the city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
7-2-5: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Issuance: If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of this
chapter, the director shall issue a permit.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The director may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance of
the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to protect the
health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right of way and
its current use. In addition, a permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state and federal laws, including, but not limited to, Minnesota
statutes sections 216D.01 to 216D.09 ("gopher one" call excavation notice
system) and Minnesota rules chapter 7560.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â As a condition of all applicable permits, permittees employing
trenchless excavation methods, including, but not limited to, horizontal
directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in Minnesota
statutes chapter 216D and Minnesota rules chapter 7560, and shall require
potholing or open cutting over existing underground utilities before
excavating, as determined by the city. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
7-2-6: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and conditions
of this chapter, or if the city determines that the denial is necessary to
protect the health, safety, and welfare, or when necessary to protect the right
of way and its current use. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
7-2-7: PERMIT FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Established: All permit fees shall be established consistent with the
provisions of Minnesota rules 7819.1000.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Excavations: The city shall establish an excavation permit fee in an
amount sufficient to recover the following costs (the fee schedule is attached
to the ordinance codified herein:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The city management costs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Degradation costs, if applicable.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Obstructions: The city shall establish the obstruction permit fee
which shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management costs.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Payment Of Fees: No excavation permit or obstruction permit shall be
issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The city may
allow the applicant to pay such fees within thirty (30) days of billing.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Nonrefundable: Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the
director has revoked for a breach as stated in section 7-2-20 of this chapter
are not refundable.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Application To Franchises: Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right of way user in the franchise. (Ord. 131, 5-2-
2006)
7-2-8: INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY:
By applying for and accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee agrees
to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota
rules 7819.1250. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
7-2-9: DISPLAY OF PERMIT:
Permits issued under this chapter shall be conspicuously displayed or otherwise
available at all times at the indicated work site and shall be available for
inspection by the director. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
7-2-10: SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Limitation On Area: A right of way permit is valid only for the area of
the right of way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work outside
the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any permittee
which determines that an area greater than that specified in the permit must be
obstructed or excavated must, before working in that greater area: 1) make
application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby; and 2) be granted a new permit or permit extension.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Limitation On Dates:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A right of way permit is valid only for the dates specified in the
permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit start date or, except
as provided herein, continue working after the end date. If a permittee does
not finish the work by the permit end date, the permittee must apply for a new
permit for the additional time needed, and receive the new permit or an
extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the previous
permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the permit end
date.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If the obstruction or excavation of the right of way begins later or
ends sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the
director of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
7-2-11: INSPECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Notice Of Completion: When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minnesota rules 7819.1300.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Site Inspection: Permittee shall make the work site available to city
personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Authority Of Director:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â At the time of inspection, the director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well being of the public.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The director may issue an order to the permittee for any work that
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten (10) days
after issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the director
that the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented
within the required time, the director may revoke the permit pursuant to
section 7-2-20 of this chapter. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
7-2-12: WORK WITHOUT PERMIT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Emergency Situations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Each person with facilities in the right of way shall immediately
notify the city of any event regarding its facilities that it considers being
an emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two (2) business days after
the occurrence of the emergency, the owner shall apply for the necessary
permits, pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the
requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for
the actions it took in response to the emergency.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
city will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Nonemergency Situations: Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right of way, must subsequently obtain a permit and, as a penalty, pay double
the normal fee for said permit, pay double all the other fees required by this
chapter, deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the
right of way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter. (Ord.
131, 5-2-2006; amd. 2008 Code)
7-2-13: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right of way shall be done in conformance with Minnesota rules
7819.1100 and other applicable local requirements, insofar as they are not
inconsistent with Minnesota statutes sections 237.162 and 237.163. (Ord. 131,
5-2-2006)
7-2-14: PATCHING AND RESTORATION OF RIGHT OF WAY:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Timing: The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right of way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonable or unreasonable under
this chapter. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Performing Work: Permittee shall patch its own work. The city may
choose either to have the permittee restore the right of way or to restore the
right of way itself.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â City Restoration: If the city restores the right of way, the
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within thirty (30) days of billing. If,
following such restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee's improper
backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the city, within thirty (30) days of
billing, all costs associated with having to correct the defective work.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Permittee Restoration: If the permittee restores the right of way
itself, it shall, at the time of application for an excavation permit, post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota
rules 7819.3000.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Degradation Fee In Lieu Of Restoration: In lieu of right of way
restoration, a right of way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right of way user shall remain responsible for patching, and the
degradation fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these
responsibilities.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Standards: The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minnesota rules 7819.1100. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Duty To Correct Defects: The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee,
upon notification from the director, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the director. Said work shall be
completed within five (5) calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the
director, not including days during which work cannot be done because of
circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonable or unreasonable under this chapter. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006; amd. 2008
Code)
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Failure To Restore: If the permittee fails to restore the right of way
in the manner and to the condition required by the director, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the director,
the director, at his option, may do such work. In that event, the permittee
shall pay to the city, within thirty (30) days of billing, the cost of
restoring the right of way. If the permittee fails to pay as required, the city
may exercise its rights under the construction performance bond. (Ord. 131, 5-
2-2006)
7-2-15: MAPPING DATA:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Information Required: Each permittee shall provide mapping information
required by the city in accordance with Minnesota rules 7819.4000 and
7819.4100.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Service Laterals: All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minnesota rules
7560.0150 subpart 2, shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the city reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the city
evidence of the installed service lateral locations. Compliance with this
subsection and with applicable "gopher one" call state law and Minnesota rules
governing service laterals install after December 31, 2005, shall be a
condition of any city approval necessary for: 1) payments to contractors
working on a public improvement project including those under Minnesota
statutes chapter 429; and 2) city approval of performance under development
agreements, or other subdivision or site plan approval, under Minnesota
statutes chapter 462. The city shall reasonably determine the appropriate
method of providing such information. Failure to provide prompt and accurate
information on the service laterals installed may result in the revocation of
the permit issued for the work or for future permits to the offending permittee
or its subcontractors. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
7-2-16: LOCATION OF FACILITIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Compliance With State Regulations: Placement, location, and relocation
of facilities must comply with applicable laws and with Minnesota rules
7819.3100, 7819.5000 and 7819.5100, to the extent the rules do not limit
authority otherwise available to cities. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Corridors: The city may assign specific corridors within the right of
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right of way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Limitation Of Space: To protect health, safety, and welfare or when
necessary to protect the right of way and its current use, the director shall
have the power to prohibit or the director shall strive to the extent possible
to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right of way, but shall
be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest, the public need
for the particular utility service, the condition of the right of way, the time
of year with respect to essential utilities, the protection of existing
facilities in the right of way, and future city plans for public improvements
and development projects which have been determined to be in the public
interest. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
7-2-17: DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES:
When the city does work in the right of way and finds it necessary to maintain,
support, or move facilities to protect the right of way, the director shall
notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The costs
associated therewith will be billed to that facility owner and must be paid
within thirty (30) days from the date of billing. Each facility owner shall be
responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right of way which
it or its facility damages. Each facility owner shall be responsible for the
cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another caused during the
city's response to an emergency occasioned by that owner's facilities. (Ord.
131, 5-2-2006; amd. 2008 Code)
7-2-18: VACATION OF RIGHT OF WAY:
If the city vacates a right of way that contains facilities, the facility
owner's rights in the vacated right of way are governed by Minnesota rules
7819.3200. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
7-2-19: ABANDONED FACILITIES:
Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right of way shall remove them
from that right of way, if required, in conjunction with other right of way
repair, excavation, or construction, unless the director waives this
requirement. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
7-2-20: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Breach Of Terms: The city reserves its right, as provided herein, to
revoke any right of way permit, without a fee refund, if there is a substantial
breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule or
regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The violation of any material provision of the right of way permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right
of way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right of way permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a permit
extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to reasons
beyond the permittee's control; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to section 7-2-11
of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notice: If the city determines that the permittee has committed a
substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute, ordinance, rule,
regulation or any condition of the permit, the city shall make a written demand
upon the permittee to remedy such violation. The demand shall state that
continued violations might be cause for revocation of the permit. A substantial
breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to place
additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Inadequate Response To Notice; Revocation: Within twenty four (24)
hours of receiving notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city
with a plan, acceptable to the city, which will cure the breach. Permittee's
failure to so contact the city, or the permittee's failure to submit an
acceptable plan, or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved
plan, shall be cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Reimbursement Of City Costs: If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorney fees,
incurred in connection with such revocation. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
7-2-21: APPEALS:
A right of way user that: a) has been denied registration; b) has been denied a
permit; c) has had a permit revoked; d) believes that the fees imposed are
invalid; or e) disputes a determination of the city regarding section 7-2-11 of
this chapter, may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or decision
reviewed, upon written request, by the city council. The city council shall act
on a timely written request at its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision
by the city council affirming the denial, revocation, or fee imposition will be
in writing and supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of
the decision. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006; amd. 2008 Code)
7-2-22: RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS:
A permittee's rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the public. (Ord. 131, 5-2-2006)
CHAPTER 3
TREES
SECTION:
7-3-1: Definitions
7-3-2: Tree Board
7-3-3: Arborists
7-3-4: Street Trees
7-3-5: Tree Care
7-3-6: Topping Trees
7-3-7: Pruning Trees; Corner Clearance; Dead, Diseased Trees
7-3-8: Stump Removal
7-3-9: Interference With Tree Board Prohibited
7-3-10: Council Review; Appeals
7-3-11: Penalty
7-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
PARK TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the city, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
STREET TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on the city
right of way, either side of all streets, avenues, or ways within the city.
(Ord. 105, 7-6-1993)
7-3-2: TREE BOARD:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Created; Appointment: There is hereby created and established a city
tree board, which shall consist of five (5) members, citizens and residents of
the city, who shall be appointed by the mayor, with the approval of the
council.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Terms Of Office; Vacancies: The term of the five (5) persons to be
appointed by the mayor shall be three (3) years; except, that the term of two
(2) of the members appointed to the first board shall be for only one year and
the term of two (2) members of the first board shall be for two (2) years. In
the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member, his
successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Compensation: Members of the board shall serve without compensation.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Officers, Rules And Meetings: The board shall choose its own officers,
make its own rules and regulations and keep a journal of its proceedings. A
majority of the members shall be a quorum for the transaction of business.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Duties And Responsibilities: It shall be the responsibility of the
board to study, investigate, counsel and develop and/or update annually, and
administer a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting,
replanting, removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets
and in other public areas. Such plan will be presented annually to the city
council and, upon its acceptance and approval, shall constitute the official
comprehensive city tree plan for the city. The board, when requested by the
city council, shall consider, investigate, make findings, report and recommend
upon any special matter of question coming within the scope of its work. (Ord.
105, 7-6-1993)
7-3-3: ARBORISTS:
It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to engage in the business or
occupation of pruning, treating or removing street or park trees within the
city without first applying for and procuring a permit. No permit shall be
required of any public service company or city employee doing such work in the
pursuit of his public service endeavors. Before any permit shall be issued,
each applicant shall first file evidence of possession of liability insurance
in the minimum amounts of fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00) for bodily injury
and one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000.00) for property damage,
indemnifying the city or any person injured or damaged resulting from the
pursuit of such endeavors as herein described. (Ord. 105, 7-6-1993)
7-3-4: STREET TREES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Recommended Species: The following list constitutes the recommended
street tree species for the city:
Small Trees Medium Trees Large Trees
Small Trees          Medium Trees              Large Trees
Apricot              Ash, green                Coffeetree, Kentucky
Crabapple, flowering Hackberry                 Maple, silver
Hawthorn (sp.)       Honeylocust (thornless)   Maple, sugar
Pear, Bradford       Linden or Basswood        Oak, bur
Redbud               Mulberry, red (fruitless, Sycamore
                     male)
Soapberry            Oak, English              Sycamore, London plantree
Lilac, Jap. tree     Oak, red                  Cottonwood (cottonless, male)
Peach, flowering     Pagodatree, Japanese
Plum, purpleleaf     Pecan
Serviceberry         Birch, river
                     Osageorange (thornless,
                     male)
                     Persimmon
                     Poplar, white
                     Sassafras
Â 
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Spacing: The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the
three (3) species size classes listed in subsection A of this section, and no
trees may be planted closer together than the following: small trees, thirty
feet (30'); medium trees, forty feet (40'); and large trees, fifty feet (50');
except in special plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Location:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Distance From Curb And Sidewalk: The distance trees may be planted
from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three (3)
species size classes listed in subsection A of this section, and no trees may
be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, two
feet (2'); medium trees, three feet (3'); and large trees, four feet (4').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Distance From Street Corners And Fireplugs: No street tree shall be
planted closer than thirty five feet (35') of any street corner, measured from
the point of nearest intersecting curbs or curb lines. No street tree shall be
planted closer than ten feet (10') of any fireplug.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Near Utilities: No street trees, other than those species listed as
small trees in subsection A of this section, may be planted under or within ten
(10) lateral feet of any overhead utility wire, or over or within five (5)
lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or
other utility. (Ord. 105, 7-6-1993)
7-3-5: TREE CARE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The city shall have the right to plant, prune, maintain and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure public safety
or to preserve or enhance the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The city tree board may remove, or cause, or order to be removed, any
tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or which, by reason of its
nature, is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas lines, water lines,
or other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect
or other pest. This subsection does not prohibit the planting of street trees
by adjacent property owners; provided, that the selection and location of said
trees is in accordance with section 7-3-4 of this chapter. (Ord. 105, 7-6-1993)
7-3-6: TOPPING TREES:
It shall be unlawful, as a normal practice, for any person, firm, or city
department to top any street tree, park tree, or other tree on public property.
"Topping" is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to stubs larger than
three inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown to such a degree so as to
remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by
storms or other causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other
obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted
herefrom at the determination of the city tree board. (Ord. 105, 7-6-1993)
7-3-7: PRUNING TREES; CORNER CLEARANCE; DEAD, DISEASED TREES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right of way within
the city shall prune the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any streetlamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet (8') above the surface of
the street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or
dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the
safety of the public. The city shall have the right to prune any tree or shrub
on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along
the street from a streetlight or interferes with visibility of any traffic
control device or sign 1 .
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The city shall have the right to cause the removal of any dead or
diseased trees on private property within the city when such trees constitute a
hazard to life and property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a
potential threat to other trees within the city. The city tree board will
notify, in writing, the owners of such trees. Removal shall be done by said
owners at their own expense within sixty (60) days after the date of service of
notice. In the event of failure of owners to comply with such provisions, the
city shall have the authority to remove such trees and charge the cost of
removal on the owner's property tax notice. (Ord. 105, 7-6-1993)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-1-4B and sections 10-6-4 and 10-7-8 of this code.
7-3-8: STUMP REMOVAL:
All stumps of street and park trees shall be removed below the surface of the
ground so that the top of the stump shall not project above the surface of the
ground. (Ord. 105, 7-6-1993)
7-3-9: INTERFERENCE WITH TREE BOARD PROHIBITED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
city tree board or any of its agents while engaging in and about the planting,
cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying, or removing of any street trees, park
trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this chapter. (Ord. 105,
7-6-1993)
7-3-10: COUNCIL REVIEW; APPEALS:
The city council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions
of the city tree board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the
city tree board to the city council who may hear the matter and make a final
decision. (Ord. 105, 7-6-1993)
7-3-11: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction or a
plea of guilty, be subject to a fine not to exceed three hundred dollars
($300.00). (Ord. 105, 7-6-1993; amd. 2008 Code)
CHAPTER 4
PARKS
SECTION:
7-4-1: Closing Hours
7-4-1: CLOSING HOURS 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Established: The city council hereby establishes closing hours for all
city public parks. No persons, other than law enforcement personnel and city
employees, may be in or on such property during closed hours without express
permission of the city council, city administrator, or chief of police. All
city parks shall be closed from ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. each evening until
five o'clock (5:00) A.M. the following morning. (Ord. 102, 9-8-1992; amd. Ord.
136, 10-8-2007)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â After Hours Permit: A person or organization wishing to use the city
parks during closed hours must first apply for and receive a permit. Permits
shall be granted pursuant to a procedure established by the city council by
resolution. (Ord. 102, 9-8-1992)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Petty Misdemeanor Violation; Penalty: A violation of this section shall
constitute a petty misdemeanor offense punishable by a maximum penalty of a
three hundred dollar ($300.00) fine. (Ord. 102, 9-8-1992; amd. 2008 Code)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 5-6-1B2 of this code.
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-1-1: Definitions
8-1-2: Connection To System
8-1-3: Service Pipes And Appurtenances
8-1-4: Meters
8-1-5: Water Rates
8-1-6: New Mains
8-1-7: Responsibility For Water Lines And Frozen Pipes
8-1-8: Prohibited Acts And Conditions
8-1-9: Cross Connections
8-1-10: Emergencies
8-1-11: Water Restrictions
8-1-12: Liability For Service
8-1-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the content specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of the terms
used in this chapter shall be as follows:
CITY: The City of Frazee.
CORPORATION STOP: The valve installed on the outside of the water main pipe for
distribution of water.
CURB STOP: The valve located next to the street curb or on the edge of the
premises where no curb has been installed for the purpose of turning water on
or off to said premises.
MUNICIPAL WATER SYSTEM: All facilities for the distribution of water throughout
the City.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
SHALL: Is mandatory.
STANDPIPE: The pipe installed on top of the curb stop to ground level for the
purpose of operating the curb stop.
SUPERINTENDENT: The Public Works Superintendent of the City, or his authorized
deputy, agent, or representative.
WATER LINE TO THE PREMISES: From the outlet side of the corporation stop to the
water meter.
WATER METER: The meter used to measure the amount of water used to said
premises. (Ord. 125, 12-6-2004)
8-1-2: CONNECTION TO SYSTEM:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Connection Required: The owner of all new or existing buildings used
for business and new housing developments and new or existing houses located
within the city shall be required to connect to municipal water at the owner's
expense within ninety (90) days of the date said municipal water is
operational; provided, that said municipal water is within one hundred feet
(100') of said property. All future buildings constructed on property adjacent
to the municipal water shall be required to immediately connect to the
municipal water. If water connections are not being made pursuant to this
subsection, an official ninety (90) day notice shall be served instructing the
affected property owner to make said connection.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Connection Deadline: Existing buildings where water is supplied by a
private water system or private well within the city as of December 31, 2024
that are currently not connected to the municipal water supply system and have
private water supply systems and are within one hundred feet (100') of a
municipal water supply system must connect to the municipal water supply system
at the property owners expense within one year.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Existing buildings on lands annexed into the city after December 31,
2024 that have operable private wells less than five years old and in
compliance with all current codes as of the date of annexation are not required
to be connected to the municipal water supply system until five (5) years after
the date of annexation or until one year after the municipal water supply
system is within one hundred feet (100') of the property, whichever occurs
last. All connections to the municipal water supply system shall be at the
property owner's expense.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Application Deadline: The owner or owners of each and every existing
building located in the city as of December 31, 2024, to which water is
supplied from a private water supply system or private well within the city
that currently are not connected to the municipal water supply system and are
within one hundred feet (100') of the municipal water supply system must make
application for a permit to connect to the municipal water supply system no
later than January 1, 2026. Upon determination of the City Council that it is
not currently feasible to connect the applicant's building to the municipal
water supply system, the applicant may be granted a permit to continue use of
the private water supply system or private well for a maximum of two (2) years.
Prior to the expiration of that permit, the applicant must again apply for a
permit to connect to the municipal water supply system and the same process
will apply. A fee may be charged for theses permits as set by the City Council
by resolution. No more than two (2) permits per parcel will be granted.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Existing private wells sealed: All private water supply systems and
private wells currently located within the city or which become located within
the city by future annexation must either be maintained for use such as
irrigation, or sealed and abandoned at the property owner's expense and in
accordance with the Minnesota Water Well Construction Code or other applicable
state regulations.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â City may make connection. In the event a property owner shall fail to
connect a building used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, or other
purpose to which water is supplied to the municipal water supply system in
compliance with this chapter, a notice shall be mailed to the property owner by
first class mail at the property owner's last known address requiring
compliance with this chapter within ninety (90) days of the date of the notice.
In the event the property owner fails to comply with the chapter and connect
the to municipal water supply system the city may undertake to have said
connection made.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Recovery of cost. The owner of the property which the city has
connected to the municipal water supply system pursuant to the terms of this
chapter is personally liable to the city for the cost of the work, including
administrative costs. As soon as the connection is complete and the costs
determined, the City Administrator shall present the owner of the property with
a demand for reimbursement of those costs, after which the sum shall be
immediately due and payable to the city. Failure to pay shall entitle the city,
on or before September 1 of the year following connection, to assess the cost
against the property as a local improvement pursuant to M.S. Â§Â§ 429.01 et seq.,
as they may be amended from time to time, and collect the same along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments as the City Council
may determine. This right of the city shall be in addition to any other
remedial or enforcement provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Service taps. All service taps up to and including two inches will be
done under pressure. Service taps larger than two inches (2") need not but may
be done under pressure.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Curb box. When a service lateral was installed with a water main
project (out to the curb box), the property owner will connect at the curb box.
If any additional service is needed, the forementioned described service
connection will apply.
Â Â Â JÂ Â Â Code compliance. All service lines, connections, piping, and
appurtenances shall be installed and performed strictly in accordance with the
Minnesota Plumbing Code and be approved by the Water Department. Failure to
install or maintain the same in accord with that code, or failure to have or
permit required inspections shall be grounds for termination of water service.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Application For Service: Any person desiring a connection with the
municipal water system shall apply in writing to the City Administrator on a
form furnished by the Administrator for a permit to make such connection. By
his/her signature, the applicant shall agree to conform to this chapter and to
rules and regulations that may be established by the City as conditions for the
use of water.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Costs: Any person connecting to the Municipal water system shall pay
the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Cost of all excavation and backfilling.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Cost of materials for water services from the water main to the
premises. All material used shall be approved by the Superintendent prior to
installation. The piping material, curb stop, and accessories shall meet one
hundred sixty (160) psi minimum pressure.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Separate Connections Required: Unless special permission is granted by
the Superintendent, all premises shall have a separate and distinct service
connection; and where permission is granted for branch service pipes, each
branch pipe must have its own curb stop and water meter.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Plumbing Work: No one except regular employees of the city water
department or licensed plumbers shall do any plumbing work on any pipe
connected or to be connected to the municipal water system.
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Inspection And Approval: No service line or pipe connection shall be
covered until after it has been inspected under pressure by the superintendent
or person designated for that purpose by the city. When any portion of the pipe
laid is ready to cover, the plumber or contractor shall notify the
superintendent or designated inspector, and the superintendent or inspector
shall determine whether or not all material is of good quality and properly
connected and laid in place in accordance with the provisions hereof and the
plumbing code adopted by the state commissioner of health.
Â Â Â P.Â Â Â Restoration Of Excavated Area: When such line is approved, it may be
covered and the ditch filled. No excavation made by plumbers or contractors in
public ground shall be kept open longer than is absolutely necessary to make
the connection required and, while open, shall be protected by suitable
barriers, guards, lights, or warning devices. Backfilling shall be thoroughly
compacted and left in a condition satisfactory to the street department. All
blacktop repair shall be performed by an authorized contractor. (Ord. 125, 12-
6-2004; amd. 2008 Code; Ord. 178, 1-22-2025)
8-1-3: SERVICE PIPES AND APPURTENANCES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All corporation stops shall be installed on the side of the main water
line with zero leakage. All pipe between the corporation stop and the curb stop
shall be at same depth as the main water line or no less than seven feet six
inches (7'6") below the street surface. All curb stops shall be located within
five feet (5') of the curb or street and alley line where the curb has not been
installed. All curb stop standpipes shall be level with the surrounding
surface. All pipes shall be of heavy duty copper or other material authorized
by the superintendent of no less than three-fourths inch (3/4"). Larger pipe
may be of other material authorized by the superintendent. All repairs or
replacements of service pipes between the curb stop and the building plumbing
shall be made at the expense of the consumer. Any repairs or replacements
between the main and the curb stop, including the curb stop, shall be made at
the expense of the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Check valves are hereby required on all connections to steam boilers or
on any connections deemed by the superintendent to require one. (Ord. 125, 12-
6-2004)
8-1-4: METERS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General Requirements: All meters shall be purchased through the city
for the city's cost by the property owner. The owner is responsible for all
plumbing to the meter. All new meters installed shall be of the remote reader
type and installed as close to the water inlet line as deemed possible, with a
shutoff valve before the meter. The city shall maintain and repair, at its
expense, any meter that has become unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear
and shall replace it if necessary. Where repair or replacement is made
necessary by act or neglect of the owner or occupant of the premises it serves,
any city expense caused thereby shall be a charge against and collected from
the water consumer, and water service may be discontinued until the cause is
corrected and the amount charged is paid.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Lawn Meters: An additional meter may be purchased through the city for
the city's cost by the property owner to be used for watering purposes. The
property owner will only be billed the monthly water base and consumption
charges for water used from the additional meter during the months the second
service is used.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Reading Meters: Meters will be read every month. Authorized employees
of the city water department may legally enter upon any water customer's
premises at a reasonable hour for the purpose of reading water meters. (Ord.
125, 12-6-2004)
8-1-5: WATER RATES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Metered Water Required: All water furnished by the municipal water
system shall be measured by meters, and all meters shall read in number of
cubic feet of water used unless otherwise authorized by the superintendent.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Rates Established: Water rates will include a minimum charge, plus
consumption, based upon per unit consumed. All dwellings that have more than
one unit served from one water meter shall be charged the minimum per unit,
plus consumption. Water, sewer 1 , and garbage 2  rates are set by resolution
of the city council.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Bills For Service; Delinquencies:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Bills for water service charges, sewer service charges 3 , and
refuse service charges 4 Â shall be rendered on a monthly basis succeeding the
period for which the service was rendered and shall be due on the first day of
the month following the date of rendering. Any bill not paid in full at that
time will be considered delinquent. At that time, the city shall notify the
delinquent owner, in writing, regarding the delinquent bill and subsequent
penalty. The penalty shall be computed as ten percent (10%) of the original
bill and shall be increased the same ten percent (10%) for every month the bill
is outstanding.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any person who is twenty (20) days behind on water payment is
subject to discontinuance of service until payment is made in full. The city
administrator shall send a water shutoff notice one week prior to the
discontinuance of water service. Once water is shut off for nonpayment, an
additional fee set by resolution of the city council will be charged to cover
the cost of shutting off and turning on the water.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 444.075, all payments due to
the city from served premises which are more than twenty (20) days past due on
October 15 of each year and have been properly billed to the owner or occupant
of the premises served, shall be certified by the city administrator to the
county auditor by November 15 of each year. The city administrator, in
certifying such charges to the county auditor, shall specify the amount thereof
and description and name of the owner of the premises served. The amount so
certified shall be extended by the county auditor on the tax rolls against such
premises in the same manner as other taxes and paid to and collected by the
county treasurer along with other taxes. (Ord. 125, 12-6-2004; amd. Ord. 176,
8-14-2024)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also chapter 2, article B of this title.
2 2. See also section 8-4-4 of this title.
3 3. See also sections 8-2B-9 and 8-2B-10 of this title.
4 4. See chapter 4 of this title.
8-1-6: NEW MAINS:
All new water mains shall be installed a minimum of eight feet (8') below the
street surface and as per Minnesota department of health rules and regulations.
(Ord. 125, 12-6-2004)
8-1-7: RESPONSIBILITY FOR WATER LINES AND FROZEN PIPES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It shall be the responsibility of the owners of premises on both sides
of the street to pay all costs of new water main installation.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It shall be the responsibility of the owner of said premises to pay all
costs of repairs of the water line to the premises.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â It shall be the city's responsibility to pay all costs for water main
repairs, including the inlet side of the corporation stop.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â It shall be the owner's responsibility to ensure the water line to the
premises does not freeze up. The cost to thaw out the water line to the
premises is charged to the owner or resident of said premises. (Ord. 125, 12-6-
2004)
8-1-8: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â It is hereby declared unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
take any water from the municipal water system except the same be drawn through
a meter installed by the city, or from premises not owned by him or them
without the permission of the owner thereof.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person to turn any curb stop on or off
except a duly authorized employee or with permission from the superintendent.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful to tamper with water meters. If the superintendent
finds evidence that a meter has been tampered with, said person shall pay for
all repairs or a new meter, plus cost of water used in the previous month. If
tampering with meters continues, water service to the premises will be
discontinued.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â It shall be unlawful for any person to tamper with fire hydrants or
hydrant snow markers. (Ord. 125, 12-6-2004)
8-1-9: CROSS CONNECTIONS:
No water pipe of the City water supply shall be connected with any pump, well,
or tank that is connected with any other sources of water supply. When any such
connection is found, the Superintendent shall notify the owner to sever the
connection, and if this is not done immediately, the City shall turn off the
water supply forthwith. Before any new connection to the City system is
permitted, the department shall ascertain that no cross connection will exist
when the new connection is made. (Ord. 125, 12-6-2004)
8-1-10: EMERGENCIES:
The City hereby reserves the right to discontinue service to any or all
customers without notice in case of emergency. Notification to discontinue
service shall be given by the City Public Works Department to make repairs to
the water system when time permits such action. (Ord. 125, 12-6-2004)
8-1-11: WATER RESTRICTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Shortage Of Water; Restricted Hours: Whenever the Council determines
that a shortage of water supply threatens the City, it may, by resolution,
limit the times and hours during which City water may be used for sprinkling,
irrigation, car washing, air conditioning, or other specified uses. After
publication of the resolution, no person shall use, or permit water to be used
in violation of the resolution, and any customer who does so shall be charged a
fee set by resolution of the Council for each day of violation, and the charge
shall be added to the next water bill. If the emergency requires immediate
compliance with terms of the resolution, the Council may provide for the
delivery of a copy of the resolution to the premises of each customer, and any
customer who has received such notice and thereafter uses or permits water to
be used in violation of the resolution shall be subject to the charge provided
herein. Continued violation shall be cause for discontinuance of water service.
(Ord. 125, 12-6-2004)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Mandatory Emergency Water Conservation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Purpose: This subsection B establishes water conservation
restrictions; and the plan will be in effect at any time the Governor declares
by executive order a critical water deficiency, pursuant to Minnesota Statutes
section 103G.291.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Definitions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â CLERK: In statutory cities means the person assigned duties pursuant to
Minnesota Statutes section 412.151; or the City Manager pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes section 412.601 - 412.751 or in charter cities as determined by city
charter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â DEPARTMENT: Means the City Water Department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â EMERGENCY: Means the declaration of a critical water deficiency by the
Governor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â IRRIGATION: Means the watering of shrubs, trees, sod, seeded areas,
gardens, lawns, or any other outdoor vegetation, except outdoor vegetation
utilized for agricultural purposes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â NOTIFICATION TO PUBLIC: Means notification through local media, including
interviews and issuance of news releases.
Â Â Â Â Â Â PUBLIC WATER SUPPLIER: Means the City or other entity that owns, manages,
or operates a public water supply, as defined in Minnesota Statutes section
144.382, subdivision 4.
Â Â Â Â Â Â RECLAIMED WATER: Means water collected from rooftops, paved surfaces, or
other collection devices and all water utilized more than once before re-
entering the natural water cycle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â WATER RECIRCULATION SYSTEM: Means any system which enables a user to
reuse water at least once prior to returning the water to the natural water
cycle.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Application:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â This subsection B applies to all customers of public water
suppliers who own or control water use on any premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â No person shall make, cause, use, or permit the use of water
received from a public water supply for residential, commercial, industrial,
governmental, or any other purpose in any manner contrary to any provision in
this subsection B.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Mandatory emergency conservation measures shall be implemented
based upon the declaration of a critical water emergency by the Governor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Declaration Of Critical Water Deficiency: Upon the declaration of a
critical water deficiency by the Governor, the public water supplier shall
immediately post notice of the emergency declaration at the usual meeting place
of the City Council, or the official City bulletin board. The City shall
provide notification to the public as quickly as possible or through
established water supply plans, emergency response plans or procedures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Mandatory Emergency Water Conservation Measures: Upon declaration of
a water emergency and notification to the public, the following mandatory
restrictions upon nonessential water use shall be enforced:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Outdoor irrigation of yards, gardens, golf courses, parklands,
and other non-agricultural land, except for those areas irrigated with
reclaimed water, is prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Washing or spraying of sidewalks, driveways, parking areas,
tennis courts, patios, or other paved areas with water from any pressurized
source, including garden hoses, except to alleviate immediate health or safety
hazards, is prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The outdoor use of any water-based play apparatus connected to a
pressurized source is prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Restaurants and other food service establishments are prohibited
from serving water to their customers, unless water is specifically requested
by the customer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Operation of outdoor misting systems used to cool public areas is
prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The filling of swimming pools, fountains, spas, or other exterior
water features is prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â The washing of automobiles, trucks, trailers, and other types of
mobile equipment is prohibited, except at facilities equipped with wash water
recirculation systems, and for vehicles requiring frequent washing to protect
public health, safety, and welfare.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Variances: The City Clerk or their designee, is authorized to grant
variances to this subsection B where strict application of its provisions would
result in serious hardship to a customer. A variance may be granted only for
reasons involving health or safety. An applicant may appeal the denial of a
variance within five (5) days of the decision by submitting a written appeal to
the City Clerk. The City Council shall hear the appeal at the next City Council
meeting. The decision of the City Council is final.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Violation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Violations shall be determined and cited by the City Clerk or
his/her designee. A violator may appeal the citation within five (5) days of
its issuance by submitting a written appeal to the City. The City Council shall
hear the appeal at the next City Council meeting. The decision of the City
Council is final. Violators may be granted an administrative waiver if evidence
is provided that equipment failure was the cause of the violation. A letter
from a qualified vendor or equipment invoice will be required to show proof of
equipment failure.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Upon discovery of a first violation, the violator shall be
issued, either personally or by mail, a warning letter that sets forth the
violation and which shall describe the remedy and fines for future violations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Upon subsequent violations at the same location, the violator
shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
violation and shall describe the remedy. Fines shall be added to the monthly
water bill of the owner or current occupant of the premises where the violation
occurred. The imposition of the fine shall in no way limit the right of the
City to pursue other legal remedies.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Enforcement: The City Clerk or his/her designee is authorized to
designate City employees or law enforcement personnel to enforce the provisions
of this subsection B. (Ord. 150, 5-14-2018, eff. 5-24-2018)
8-1-12: LIABILITY FOR SERVICE:
The owner shall be liable for the cost of water, sewer 1 , and garbage service
supplied to the owner's property, whether the owner is occupying the property
or not. Any charges unpaid shall be a lien upon the property and shall give the
City recourse under subsection
8-1-5C3 of this chapter. (Ord. 125, 12-6-2004)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 8-2B-9F of this title.
CHAPTER 2
SEWER SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2-1: Definitions
8-2-2: Use Of Public Sewers
8-2-2-1: Use Required
8-2-2-2: Discharges Into Public System
8-2-2-3: Preliminary Treatment, Flow Equalization, Interceptors
8-2-2-4: Measurements, Tests And Analyses
8-2-2-5: Capacity For New Systems
8-2-2-6: Special Agreements
8-2-3: Private Sewage Disposal Systems
8-2-4: Building Sewers And Connections
8-2-5: Main And Lateral Sewer Construction
8-2-6: Damage To System Prohibited
8-2-7: Powers And Authority Of Inspectors
8-2-8: Violations; Penalties
8-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings set out in this section, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise:
BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20Â°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter. Laboratory procedures shall be in accordance with the latest edition of
"Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater".
BUILDING DRAIN: That part of the lower horizontal piping of a drainage system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning five
feet (5') outside the inner face of the building wall.
BUILDING SEWER: The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal; also called house connection.
COD (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND): The quantity of oxygen utilized in the chemical
oxidation of organic matter, expressed in milligrams per liter, as determined
in accordance with standard laboratory procedures as set out in the latest
edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater".
CITY: The area within the corporate boundaries of the city of Frazee, as
presently established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a
future time. The term "city", when used herein, may also be used to refer to
the city council and its authorized representatives.
COMBINED SEWER: A sewer originally designated to receive both surface water
runoff and sewage.
GARBAGE: Solid waste resulting from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking and dispensing of food and from the handling, storage or sale of meat,
fish, fowl, fruit, vegetables or condemned food.
INDUSTRIAL WASTES: The solid, liquid, or gaseous wastes resulting from an
industrial or manufacturing process, trade or business, or from the
development, recovery, or processing of natural resources.
NPDES PERMIT (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT): The
system for issuing, conditioning and denying permits for the discharge of
pollutants from point sources into the navigable waters, the contiguous zone,
and the oceans by the environmental protection agency pursuant to the federal
water pollution control act of 1972, sections 402 and 405.
NATURAL OUTLET: Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body
of surface or ground water.
NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTES: Wastes which are characterized by two hundred
fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) BOD, and two hundred eighty five
milligrams per liter (285 mg/l) suspended solids.
OTHER WASTES: Garbage, municipal refuse, decayed wood, sawdust, shavings, bark,
lime, sand, ashes, oil, tar, chemicals, offal, and other substances except
sewage and other wastes.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
municipal corporation, governmental unit, or group.
pH: The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams per
liter of solution.
PROCESS WATER: Any water used in the manufacturing, preparation or production
of goods, materials or food. Process water is an industrial waste.
PUBLIC SEWER: Any sewer owned or operated by a unit or agency of government.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground water are not intentionally admitted.
SANITARY WASTE: The liquid and water carried wastes discharged from sanitary
plumbing facilities.
SEWAGE OR WASTEWATER: The water carried waste products from residences, public
buildings, institutions, industrial establishments or other buildings including
the excrements or other discharge from the bodies of human beings or animals,
together with such ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
SEWER: A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage, industrial wastes or other waste
liquids.
SEWER SYSTEM: Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, force mains and all
other devices and appliances appurtenant thereto, used for collecting or
conducting sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes to a point of ultimate
disposal.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial waste which, in
concentration of any given constituent, or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for
any period of duration longer than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5)
times the average twenty four (24) hour concentration of flows during the
normal operation.
STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN: A sewer which carries storm or surface water and
drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial waste, other than unpolluted
cooling or process waters.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS: Solids that either float on the surface of or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering in accordance with the latest edition of "Standard Methods
For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater".
UNPOLLUTED WATER: Clean water uncontaminated by industrial wastes, other
wastes, or any substance which renders such water unclean or noxious or impure
so as to be actually or potentially harmful or detrimental or injurious to the
public health, safety or welfare; to domestic, commercial, industrial or
recreational uses; or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish, or other aquatic
life.
WASTEWATER FACILITIES: The structures, equipment, or processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS OR TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of devices and
structures for treatment of wastewater, industrial waste and sludge; sometimes
used as synonymous for "wastewater treatment plant" or "waste treatment plant"
or "water pollution control plant" or "sewage treatment plant". (Ord. 96, 10-5-
1987)
8-2-2: USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS:
8-2-2-1: USE REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Discharge Into Natural Outlets: It shall be unlawful to discharge to
any natural outlet within the city or any area under the jurisdiction of the
city any sewage or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Private Systems: Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful
to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage if adequate and feasible
city facilities are available.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Connection To Sewer System Required:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The owner of any building or property which is located within the
city and from which wastewater is discharged shall be required to connect to a
public sewer at his expense within ninety (90) days of the date said public
sewer is operational; provided, that said public sewer is within sixty feet
(60') of the structure generating the wastewater, and such public sewer is
located in a public right of way or easement for sewer purposes adjacent to the
property. All future buildings constructed on property adjacent to the public
sewer shall be required to immediately connect to the public sewer. If sewer
connections are not being made pursuant to this subsection, an official ninety
(90) day notice shall be served instructing the affected property owner to make
said connection. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under subsection C1 of this section, the city
may undertake to have said connection made and shall assess the cost thereof
against the benefited property. Such assessment shall be a lien against said
property. Such assessment, when levied, shall bear interest at the legal rate
for local improvements and shall be certified to the county auditor and shall
be collected and remitted to the city in the same manner as assessments for
local improvements. The rights of the city shall be in addition to any remedial
or enforcement provisions of this chapter. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987; amd. 2008 Code)
8-2-2-2: DISCHARGES INTO PUBLIC SYSTEM:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Storm And Surface Water:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, any storm water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage,
waste from on site disposal systems or unpolluted cooling or process water to
any sanitary sewer except as permitted by the city. No person may discharge
sump pump or footing drain water into the public sanitary sewer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Storm water and all other unpolluted water shall be discharged to a
storm sewer; except, that unpolluted cooling or process water shall only be so
discharged upon approval by the city. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged, directly or indirectly, any of the following described substances
to any public sewer:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any wastewater treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create
any hazard in the wastewater treatment works. A "toxic pollutant" shall
include, but not be limited to, any pollutant identified pursuant to section
307A of the federal clean water act. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Any water or waste having the pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the wastewater treatment works.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Solid or viscous substances, either whole or ground, in quantities
or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in the sewers, or
other interference with the proper continuation of the wastewater facilities,
but not limited to ashes, cinders, disposable diapers, glass grinding or
polishing wastes, stone cuttings or polishing wastes, sand, mud, straw,
shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground garbage,
whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails, sanitary napkins,
paper dishes, cups, milk containers and other paper products.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or substances which, either
singly or by interaction with other wastes, are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance or repairs.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Restricted Discharges:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged, directly or
indirectly, the following described substances to any public sewer unless, in
the opinion of the city, such discharge will not harm the wastewater
facilities, nor cause obstruction to the flow in sewers, nor otherwise endanger
life, limb, or public property, nor constitute a nuisance. In forming its
opinion as to the acceptability of the wastes, the city may give consideration
to such factors as the quantities of the subject wastes in relation to flows
and velocities in the sewers, materials or construction of the sewers, nature
of the wastewater treatment process, capacity of the wastewater treatment
plant, the city's NPDES permit, and other pertinent factors. The city may make
such determinations either on a general basis or as to discharges from
individual users or specific discharges, and may prohibit certain discharges
from individual users because of unusual concentrations or combinations which
may occur. The substances prohibited are:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Any liquid or vapor having a temperature in excess of one hundred
fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150Â°F) (65Â°C).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of one hundred milligrams per liter (100 mg/l) or
containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures
between thirty two (32) and one hundred fifty degrees Fahrenheit (150Â°F) (0 and
65Â°C).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Any garbage that has not been ground or comminuted to such degree
that all particles will be carried freely in suspension under flows normally
prevailing in the public sewers, with no particles greater than one-half inch
(1/2") in any dimension.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Any water or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Any water or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances which constitute a nuisance or hazard to the structures,
equipment, or personnel of the wastewater works, or which interfere with the
treatment required to meet the requirements of the state or federal government,
or any other public agency with proper authority to regulate the discharge from
the wastewater treatment plant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or
concentration that they are not in compliance with regulations issued by the
appropriate authority having control over their use or may cause damage or
hazards to the treatment works or personnel operating said treatment works.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Any water or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Materials which exert or cause:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Unusual concentrations of suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, fuller's earth, lime slurries, and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride or sodium sulfate).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye
wastes and vegetable tanning solutions).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements
in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the wastewater
treatment works.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes
constituting a slug.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of the NPDES permit, or requirements of
other governmental agencies having jurisdiction over discharge from the
wastewater treatment plant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If any water or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged, directly or indirectly, to the public sewers, which water or wastes
do not meet the standards set out in or promulgated under this subsection, or
which, in the jurisdiction of the city, may have a deleterious effect upon the
treatment works, processes, equipment, or receiving waters, or which otherwise
create a hazard to life, or constitute a public nuisance, the city may take all
or any of the following steps:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Refuse to accept the discharges.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for the discharge
to the public sewers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Require payment to cover the added cost of handling or treating
the wastes. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
8-2-2-3: PRELIMINARY TREATMENT, FLOW EQUALIZATION, INTERCEPTORS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The design and installation of the plant and equipment for pretreatment
or equalization of flows shall be subject to the review and approval of the
city, and subject to the requirements of 40 CFR 403, entitled "Pretreatment
Standards", and the Minnesota pollution control agency.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Grease, oil and mud interceptors shall be provided when they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease
in excessive amounts, as specified in subsection 8-2-2-2C1b of this section
8-2-2, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients; except,
that such interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or
dwelling units. All interceptors shall be a type and capacity approved by the
city and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Where preliminary treatment, flow equalization, or interceptors are
required for any water or waste, they shall be effectively operated and
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective condition by the owner at
his expense and shall be available for inspection by the city at all reasonable
times. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
8-2-2-4: MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
structure, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. Such structure and equipment, when required, shall be constructed at
the owner's expense in accordance with plans approved by the city and shall be
maintained by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of water
and waste to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with 40 CFR 136, "Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures For The
Analysis Of Pollutants", the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The
Examination Of Water And Wastewater" and shall be determined at the control
structure provided or upon suitable samples taken at said control structure. In
the event that no special structure has been required, the control structure
shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer
from the point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be
carried out by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effluent
constituents and their effect upon the treatment works and to determine the
existence of hazards of life, health and property. Sampling methods, location,
times, duration and frequencies are to be determined on an individual basis
subject to approval by the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying
industrial wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide
laboratory measurements, tests and analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate
compliance with this chapter and any special conditions for discharge
established by the city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the
discharge. The number, type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses
to be performed by the owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry
must supply a complete analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge
to assure that there is compliance with federal, state and local standards. The
owner shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the
city at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the city. The owner
shall bear the expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by
the city. At such times as deemed necessary, city reserves the right to take
measurements and samples for analysis by an outside laboratory. (Ord. 96, 10-5-
1987)
8-2-2-5: CAPACITY FOR NEW SYSTEMS:
New connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited unless
sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities, including, but
not limited to, capacity for flow, BOD, and suspended solids. (Ord. 96, 10-5-
1987)
8-2-2-6: SPECIAL AGREEMENTS:
No statement contained in this section 8-2-2 shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangements between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern, in accordance with applicable ordinances and any
supplemental agreements with the city. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
8-2-3: PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS:
Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of section
8-2-2-1 of this chapter, the building sewer shall be connected to a private
wastewater disposal system complying with the rules and regulations of 6 MCAR
4.8040 entitled "Individual Sewage Treatment System Standards" or the
requirements of the city or other regulatory agencies, whichever is more
restrictive. No new private sewer systems or sewer system extensions shall be
constructed within the city without first obtaining written approval of the
system plan and the materials to be used in the construction of said system.
(Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
8-2-4: BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Contractors:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â License Required: It is unlawful for any person to engage in the
work or business of installing private sewer service lines and appurtenances
for others without a license therefor from the city. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Application For License; Fee And Term: Any person desiring to engage
in such work shall make application to the city on forms to be supplied by the
city, together with a fee in the amount as set by resolution of the city
council. All licenses issued shall be for one calendar year only, and each
renewal shall be made by application, together with an annual fee as set by
resolution of the city council. A plumber licensed by the state commissioner of
health shall pay no fee to the city, but shall show evidence of the state
license before the city issues a license. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Agreement For Liability: Each applicant for license shall sign an
agreement on such form as may be delivered by the city agreeing to pay the city
the actual cost of repair for any damage caused to the city sewer system by the
applicant, or by any of his employees or agents. This agreement shall accompany
the license application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Insurance: Each applicant shall accompany his application with a
certificate of insurance in a company acceptable to the city showing public
liability insurance coverage with limits of at least one hundred thousand
dollars ($100,000.00) per person, two hundred fifty thousand dollars
($250,000.00) per occurrence, and ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) for
property damage. Such certificate shall specifically state that such insurance
covers underground construction operations and shall contain a provision that
the coverage afforded under the policies will not be canceled or materially
changed until at least fifteen (15) days' prior written notice has been given
to the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permit To Connect: No person, unless authorized by a written permit
from the city, shall make, install, repair, alter, disturb, uncover, open or
break any sewer connection to the sanitary sewer system of the city. Permits
for connection of a new sewer service or repairs to an existing service shall
be issued by the city after consideration of the application for such permit
with regard to compliance with this chapter. Permits shall be issued in the
following manner: (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Application For Permit; Fee: Application for a permit to perform
work on a sewer service connection within the city shall be made on a form
supplied by the city by the person or firm who will be performing such work to
the city, along with a fee as set by resolution of the city council for the
installation of a new connection. The city may waive the fee requirements for
repair work. The person or firm performing such work shall be licensed by the
city to perform such work.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Bond: After approval of the permit application by the city, the
applicant shall furnish to the city a performance bond in the amount of one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00). The performance bond shall be for the good and
faithful performance of all work on public and private property relative to the
work being performed. The bond shall be payable to the city and the owner of
the property on which such work is being performed. The bond shall warrant the
work for a period of one year from the date of completion. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987;
amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Issuance Of Permit: The city administrator shall issue a permit for
the work after the application is approved and the bond is received.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Separate Building Sewers Required: A separate and independent building
sewer shall be provided for every building, except where two (2) or more
buildings are situated on one parcel such that the parcel may not be
subdivided. Such joint use private sewer may be extended to the rear building
or buildings and the whole considered as one joint use private sewer, provided
the buildings are the property of a single owner. Special variances will be
considered by the city.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Use Of Old Building Sewers: Old building sewers may be used in
connection with new buildings only when they are found, upon examination and
testing by the city, to meet all the requirements of this chapter.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Unused Private Systems: Unused septic tanks, cesspools, leaching pits
and similar devices and structures shall be backfilled or made safe and
unusable in a manner acceptable to the city.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Construction And Connection Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The size, slope, alignment and materials of construction of a
building sewer and the method used in excavating, placing of the pipe,
jointing, testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the
requirements of the building code and plumbing code, or other applicable rules
and regulations. In the absence of code provisions, or in amplification
thereof, the materials and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications
of the "Water Pollution Control Federation (WPCF) Manual Of Practice No. 9" and
the "American Society For Testing Materials (ASTM) Standards" shall apply.
(Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which
any building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, said
drain shall be provided with a lifting device by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The construction of the building sewer and its connection into the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the state plumbing code, the
sewer specifications included herein, and other applicable rules, regulations
and procedures adopted by the city. All such construction shall be made
gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the city prior to installation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Employees of the city shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the city when the work is ready for final inspection, and no underground
portions shall be covered before the final inspection is complete. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the city or its
representative.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Excavations: All excavations for building sewer installations shall be
adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from
hazards. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed
during the course of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the
city.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Surface Water Runoff Prohibited: No person shall make connection of
roof downspouts, roof drains, exterior foundation drains, areaway drains, or
other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a building sewer or building
drain which, in turn, is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary
sewer.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Liability For Costs And Expenses: All costs and expenses incidental to
the installation and connection to the building sewer or repairs to an existing
connection shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify and hold
harmless the city from any loss or damage to the public sewer that may,
directly or indirectly, be occasioned by the installation of the building
sewer. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
8-2-5: MAIN AND LATERAL SEWER CONSTRUCTION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person, unless authorized, shall uncover, make any connection with
or opening into, use, alter, or disturb any sanitary or storm sewer within the
city or any part of the city wastewater facilities.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No sanitary or storm sewers shall be constructed in the city (except
house or building service sewers) except by the city or by others in accordance
with plans and specifications approved by a professional engineer. No such
sewers shall be constructed or considered to be part of the public sewer system
unless accepted by the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction, methods to be
used in excavation, placing of pipe, jointing, testing, backfilling and other
work connected with the construction of sewers shall conform to the
requirements of the city. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
8-2-6: DAMAGE TO SYSTEM PROHIBITED:
No person shall maliciously, wilfully, or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which
is part of the wastewater facilities. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
8-2-7: POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Duly authorized employees of the city shall be permitted to enter all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Those employees
shall have no authority to inquire into processes including metallurgical,
chemical, oil, refining, ceramic, paper, or other industries except as is
necessary to determine the kind and source of the discharge to the public
sewer. While performing the necessary work on private property as referred to
in this subsection, the authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Duly authorized employees of the city shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds easements for the purpose of,
but not limited to, inspection, observation, maintenance and construction of
public sewers. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
8-2-8: VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Notice Of Violation: Any person found to be violating any provisions of
this chapter shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the time period stated in such
notice, permanently cease all violations. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties: Any person who shall continue any
violation beyond the time limit provided for in the written notice shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof, shall be fined in an amount
as provided in section 1-4A-1 of this code for each violation. Each day in
which any such violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
Administrative penalty provisions of title 1, chapter 4, article B of this code
also apply. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Liability For Costs: Any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned by the city by reason of such violation. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
ARTICLE A. INDUSTRIAL WASTES
SECTION:
8-2A-1: General Industry Requirements
8-2A-2: Discharge Levels
8-2A-3: Monitoring
8-2A-4: Pretreatment
8-2A-5: Enforcement And Penalties
8-2A-1: GENERAL INDUSTRY REQUIREMENTS:
This chapter controls the materials which can be discharged to the municipal
sanitary sewer system. The industries must provide, operate, and maintain
adequate pretreatment facilities as necessary to prevent damage, plugging,
etc., from their process waste to the city wastewater pumping system, and to
prevent loading of the city wastewater treatment facility in excess of the
design criteria. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
8-2A-2: DISCHARGE LEVELS:
The loading level shall be controlled to the following limits, which shall be
based on analysis of a twenty four (24) hour flow- proportionate composite
sample:
Â 
Biochemical oxygen demand, 5 day 630 mg/l
Suspended solids                 500 mg/l
Grease and oil                   100 mg/l
Â 
(Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
8-2A-3: MONITORING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Monitoring Facilities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling, and flow
measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems shall be
provided and operated by all industrial users. The monitoring facility should
normally be situated on the user's premises, but the city may, when such a
location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the
facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and located so
that it will not be constricted by landscaping or parked vehicles.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â There shall be ample room in or near such sampling manhole or
facility to allow accurate sampling and compositing of samples for analysis.
The facility and sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all
times in a safe and properly operating condition at the expense of the user.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling and
monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with the city
requirements and all applicable local construction standards and
specifications. Construction shall be completed within ninety (90) days
following notification by the city, unless a time extension is otherwise
granted by the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Inspection And Sampling: The city shall inspect the facilities of any
user to ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all
requirements are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where
wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the city ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, records examination, or in the performance of any of their duties.
The city, MPCA, and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user's property
such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling, inspection, compliance
monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in
force which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into
the premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with any security
guards so that, upon presentation of suitable identification, the city, MPCA,
and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of
performing their specific responsibilities. (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987)
8-2A-4: PRETREATMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as required to
comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all national
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user's expense.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the city for review, and shall be acceptable
to the public works superintendent before construction of the facility. The
review of such plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user
from responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
effluent acceptable to the city under the provisions of this chapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the user's initiation of
the changes.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards shall be
made available by the city to officials of the EPA or MPCA, upon request. (Ord.
96, 10-5-1987)
8-2A-5: ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Suspension Of Service And/Or Discharge Permit:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The city may suspend the wastewater treatment service of a user and/
or wastewater discharge permit (after informal notice to the discharger) when
such suspension is necessary, in the opinion of the city, in order to stop an
actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an eminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, to the
environment, or to the wastewater disposal system, or would cause the city to
violate any condition of its NPDES or state disposal system permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop the
discharge. In the event of a failure of the user to comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the city shall take such steps as deemed necessary, including
immediate severance of the sewer connection, to prevent or minimize damage to
the wastewater disposal system or endangerment to any individuals. The city
shall reinstate the wastewater discharge permit and/or the wastewater treatment
service upon proof of the elimination of the noncomplying discharge. A detailed
written statement submitted by the user describing the causes of the slug or
accidental discharge and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence
shall be submitted to the city within fifteen (15) days of the date of
occurrence.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Revocation Of Permit: The city may revoke the permit of any user which
fails to factually report the wastewater constituents and characteristics of
his discharge; which fails to report significant changes in wastewater
constituents or characteristics; which refuses reasonable access to the user's
premises for the purpose of inspection of monitoring; or for violation of
conditions of its permit, this chapter, or applicable state and federal
regulations.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Notice Of Violation: Whenever the city finds that any person has
violated or is violating this chapter, wastewater discharge permit, or any
prohibition, limitation or requirement contained herein, the city may serve
upon such person a written notice stating the nature of the violation. Within
thirty (30) days of the date of the notice, unless a shorter time frame is
necessary due to the nature of the violation, a plan for the satisfactory
correction thereof shall be submitted to the city by the user.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Penalties: Any user who is found to have violated an order of the city
council or who has failed to comply with any provision of this article, and the
orders, rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder, shall be fined not
less than one hundred dollars ($100.00) nor more than one thousand dollars
($1,000.00) for each offense. Each day on which a violation shall occur or
continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense. In addition to the
penalties provided herein, the city may recover reasonable attorney fees, court
costs, court reporter fees, and other expenses of litigation by an appropriate
action against the person found to have violated this article, or the orders,
rules, regulations, and permits issued hereunder.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Liability For Costs Of Damages: Any user violating any of the
provisions of this article or who has a discharge which causes a deposit,
obstruction, damage, or other impairment to the city wastewater disposal system
shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage caused by the
violation or discharge. The city may add to the user's charges and fees the
costs assessed for any cleaning, repair, or replacement work caused by the
violation or discharge. Any refusal to pay the assessed costs shall constitute
a violation of this article.  (Ord. 96, 10-5-1987; amd. 2008 Code; Ord. 174, 1-
22-2025)
ARTICLE B. SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM
SECTION:
8-2B-1: Definitions
8-2B-2: Establishment Of System
8-2B-3: User Classes
8-2B-4: Operation, Maintenance And Replacement Costs
8-2B-5: Determination Of Unit Costs
8-2B-6: User Charges
8-2B-7: Recovery Of Local Construction Costs
8-2B-8: Revenues
8-2B-9: Administration
8-2B-10: Penalties
8-2B-11: Effect Of Provisions
8-2B-1: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of the terms
used in this article shall be as hereafter designated:
ADMINISTRATION COSTS: Those fixed costs attributable to administration of the
wastewater treatment works (i.e., billing and associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs).
BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND OR BOD5: The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five (5) days at twenty degrees Celsius (20Â°C), expressed in milligrams per
liter.
CITY: The area within the corporate boundaries of the city of Frazee, as
presently established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a
future time. When used herein, the term city may also refer to the city council
or its authorized representative.
COMMERCIAL USER: Any place of business which discharges sanitary waste as
distinct from industrial wastewater.
COMMERCIAL WASTEWATERS: Domestic wastewater emanating from a place of business
as distinct from industrial wastewater.
DEBT SERVICE CHARGE: A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct said facilities.
EXTRA STRENGTH WASTE: Wastewater having a BOD and/or TSS greater than domestic
waste as defined herein and not otherwise classified as an incompatible waste.
GOVERNMENTAL USER: Users which are units, agencies, or instrumentalities of the
federal, state, or local government discharging normal domestic strength
wastewater.
INCOMPATIBLE WASTE: Waste that, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
INDUSTRIAL USERS OR INDUSTRIES: A. 1. Entities that discharge into a publicly
owned wastewater treatment works, liquid wastes resulting from the processes
employed in industrial or manufacturing processes, or from the development of
any natural resources. These are identified in the "Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, Office Of Management And Budget", as amended, and
supplemental under one of the following divisions:
Division A. Agriculture, forestry and fishing.
Division B. Mining.
Division D. Manufacturing.
Division E. Transportation, communications, electric, gas, and sanitary sewers.
Division I. Services.
2. For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be considered to
have the following characteristics:
a. BOD5: Less than two hundred fifty milligrams per liter (250 mg/l).
b. Suspended solids: Less than two hundred eighty five milligrams per liter
(285 mg/l).
B. Any nongovernmental user of a publicly owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by
interaction with other wastes, to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER: The liquid processing wastes from an industrial
manufacturing process, trade, or business including, but not limited to, all
standard industrial classification manual divisions A, B, D, E and I
manufacturers as distinct from domestic wastewater.
INSTITUTIONAL USER: Users, other than commercial, governmental, industrial or
residential users, discharging primarily normal domestic strength wastewater
(e.g., nonprofit organizations).
NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTEWATER: Wastewater that is primarily produced by
residential users, with BOD5 concentrations not greater than two hundred fifty
milligrams per liter (250 mg/l) and suspended solids concentrations not greater
than two hundred eighty five milligrams per liter (285 mg/l) in accordance with
this chapter regulating the use of public sewers for the city.
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE: Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works throughout the design or
useful life, whichever is longer, of the treatment works, and at the level of
performance for which the treatment works were constructed. Operation and
maintenance includes "replacement".
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS: Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
PUBLIC WASTEWATER COLLECTION SYSTEM: A system of sanitary sewers owned,
maintained, operated and controlled by the city.
REPLACEMENT: Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories, or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which such works were designed and constructed.
REPLACEMENT COSTS: Expenditures for replacement.
RESIDENTIAL USER: A user of the treatment facilities whose premises or building
is used primarily as a residence for one or more persons, including dwelling
units such as detached and semidetached housing, apartments, and mobile homes;
and which discharges primarily normal domestic strength sanitary wastes.
SANITARY SEWER: A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water carried wastes
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions,
together with minor quantities of ground, storm, and surface waters which are
not admitted intentionally.
SEWER SERVICE CHARGE: The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service, and other sewer related
charges, that are billed periodically to users of the city wastewater treatment
facilities.
SEWER SERVICE FUND: A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes, intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditures of
the "sewer service fund" will be for operation, maintenance and replacement
costs, and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
treatment.
SHALL; MAY: "Shall" is mandatory; "may" is permissive.
SLUG: Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds, for any period of duration longer
than fifteen (15) minutes, more than five (5) times the average twenty four
(24) hour concentration of flows during normal operation, and shall adversely
affect the collection system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment
works.
STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION MANUAL: Office of management and budget,
1972.
SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) OR TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS): The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in "Standard Methods For The Examination Of Water And Wastewater",
latest edition, and referred to as nonfilterable residue.
TOXIC POLLUTANT: The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants as defined in standards issued pursuant to section 307(a) of the
federal clean water act, which, upon exposure to or assimilation into any
organism, will cause adverse effects.
USER CHARGE: A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the user's
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
USERS: Those residential, commercial, governmental, institutional and
industrial establishments which are connected to the public sewer collection
system.
WASTEWATER: The spent water of a community; also referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions, together with any ground water, surface water and storm water
that may be present.
WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS OR TREATMENT WORKS: An arrangement of any devices,
facilities, structures, equipment, or processes owned or used by the city for
the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or structures
necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers; outfall
sewers; collection sewers; pumping, power, and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions, and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from such treatment. (Ord. 97, 10-5-1987; amd.
2008 Code)
8-2B-2: ESTABLISHMENT OF SYSTEM:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The city hereby establishes a sewer service charge system whereby all
revenue collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities will be
used to offset all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance and
replacement and for debt service on capital expenditure incurred in
constructing the wastewater treatment works.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation, maintenance
and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the users proportionate
contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Each user shall pay debt service charges to retire local capital costs
as determined by the city council.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be determined and fixed in the sewer service charge system
developed according to the provisions of this article. The sewer service charge
system, developed with the assistance of the consulting engineer, shall be
adopted by resolution upon enactment of this article, shall be published in the
local newspaper, and shall be effective upon publication. Subsequent changes in
sewer service rates and charges shall be adopted by council resolution and
shall be published in the local newspaper.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Revenues collected for sewer service shall be deposited in a separate
fund known as the sewer service fund. Income from revenues collected will be
expended to offset the cost of operation, maintenance and equipment replacement
for the facility and to retire the debt for capital expenditure.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Sewer service charges and the sewer service fund will be administrated
in accordance with the provisions of section
8-2B-9 of this article. (Ord. 97, 10-5-1987)
8-2B-3: USER CLASSES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Users of the city wastewater treatment works shall be identified as
belonging to one of the following user classes:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Residential.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Commercial.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Institutional/governmental.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Industrial.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The allocation of users to these categories for the purpose of
assessing user charges and debt service charges shall be the responsibility of
the city clerk-treasurer.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Allocation of users to user classes shall be based on the substantive
intent of the definitions of these classes contained in section 8-2B-1 of this
article. (Ord. 97, 10-5-1987)
8-2B-4: OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT COSTS:
Each user shall pay operation, maintenance, and replacement costs in proportion
to the user's proportionate contribution of wastewater flows and loadings to
the treatment plant, with the minimum rate for loadings of BOD and TSS being
the rate established for concentrations of two hundred fifty milligrams per
liter (250 mg/l) BOD and two hundred eighty five milligrams per liter (285 mg/
l) TSS (i.e., "normal domestic strength wastewater" as defined in section 8-2B-
1 of this article. Those industrial users discharging segregated normal
domestic strength wastewater only can be classified as commercial users for the
purpose of rate determination. (Ord. 97, 10-5-1987)
8-2B-5: DETERMINATION OF UNIT COSTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â For purposes of determining proportionate surcharges, unit costs for
treatment of flow, BOD, and TSS shall be determined and fixed annually in the
sewer service charge system according to the following procedure:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Determine the annual OM&R budget.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Allocate total annual OM&R costs to flow, BOD, and TSS
proportionately, according to the costs of collection and treatment of flow,
BOD, and TSS.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Divide the OM&R costs attributable to flow, BOD and TSS,
respectively, by the total annual billable volume and loadings of flow, BOD and
TSS to arrive at unit costs.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â For purposes of determining surcharges, the following definitions of
unit costs shall apply:
Â Â Â UF = Unit cost for treatment of flow in $/kgal
Â Â Â Ubod = Unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lb
Â Â Â Utss = Unit cost for treatment of TSS in $/lb
(Ord. 97, 10-5-1987; amd. 2008 Code)
8-2B-6: USER CHARGES 1 :
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Normal Domestic Strength Users:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Calculating Billable Flows And Loading:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Measurement Of Wastewater Volume: The charges assessed
residential users and those users of other classes discharging normal domestic
strength wastewater shall be established proportionately according to billable
wastewater volume. Billable wastewater volume shall be calculated as follows:
(Ord. 97, 10-5-1987)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Residential Users: Billable wastewater volume for residential
users shall be calculated on the basis of metered water usage. The monthly
billable wastewater volume shall be equal to the monthly metered water usage.
The city may require residential users to install water meters for the purpose
of determining billable wastewater volume.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Nonresidential Users:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A)Â Â Â The billable wastewater volume of nonresidential users may
be determined in the same manner as for residential users; except, that if the
city determines that there are significant seasonal variations in the metered
water usage of nonresidential users resulting in a proportionate increase (or
decrease) in wastewater volume, then billable wastewater volume shall be: 1)
calculated on the basis of monthly metered water usage as recorded throughout
the year; or 2) calculated on the basis of wastewater flow meters. (Ord. 97,
10-5-1987; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B)Â Â Â The city may, at its discretion, require nonresidential
users to install such additional water meters or wastewater flow meters as may
be necessary to determine billable wastewater volume.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Determination Of Loadings From Metered Water Usage: The billable
amounts of BOD and TSS will be calculated from the volume of metered water
usage, as determined above, where the billable quantities will be those
attributable to wastewater at a concentration of two hundred fifty milligrams
per liter (250 mg/l) BOD and two hundred eighty five milligrams per liter (285
mg/l) TSS (i.e., normal strength wastewater).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Determination Of Charges: User charges for normal domestic strength
users shall be determined as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Calculation Of Unit Costs For Treatment Of Normal Domestic
Strength Wastewater:
Â Â Â Un = UF + [(Ubod) (2.085)]
Where:
Â 
Un    = Unit cost of operation, maintenance and replacement to treat normal
        domestic strength, in $/kgal
Uf    = Unit cost for treatment of flow in $/kgal
Ubod  = Unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lb
2.085 = Lbs. of BOD in 1 kgal of normal domestic strength wastewater
Â 
b. Calculation Of User Charge For Normal Domestic Strength Wastewater:
Â Â Â Uc = Un x Bwv
Where:
Â 
Uc  = User charge
Un  = Unit cost for operation, maintenance and replacement to treat normal
      domestic strength, in $/kgal
Bwv = Billable wastewater volume of the particular user in kgal
Â 
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Greater Than Normal Domestic Strength Users:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Calculating Billable Flows And Loadings:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Calculation Of Billable Flows: The billable amount of flow will
be calculated from the volume of metered waster usage or, at the discretion of
the city, from the measurement of effluent flow at the user's point of
discharge. Measurements shall be according to a regular program prescribed by
the city. (Ord. 97, 10-5-1987)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Calculation Of Billable Loadings:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The billable amounts of BOD and TSS will be calculated by the
measurement of these wastes according to a program prescribed by the city in
keeping with the latest edition of "Standard Methods For The Examination Of
Water And Wastewater" and in accordance with this chapter. (Ord. 97, 10-5-1987;
amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â To ensure compliance with subsection
8-2B-2C of this article, the following procedures shall be followed in
determining average loadings per billing period for industrial users:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (A) When a particular reading indicates concentrations greater
than or equal to normal domestic strength, the actual reading shall be entered
into the average for billing purposes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (B) When a particular reading indicates concentrations less than
normal domestic strength, normal domestic strength shall be entered into the
average for billing purposes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Determination Of Charges:
Â Â Â Uc = [Un x Bwv] + [Ubod x K x Bwv (Cbod-Nbod)] + [Utss x K x Bwv (Ctss-
Ntss)]
Â Â Â Where:
Uc   = User charge
Un   = Unit cost for the treatment of normal domestic strength wastewater
Bwv  = Billable wastewater volume of the particular user in kgal
Ubod = Unit cost for treatment of BOD in $/lb
K    = .00834 (conversion factor)
Cbod = User concentration of BOD in mg/l
Nbod = 250 mg/l (concentration of BOD in normal domestic strength wastes)
Utss = Unit cost for treatment of TSS in $/lb
Ctss = User concentration of TSS in mg/l
Ntss = 285 mg/l (concentration of TSS in normal domestic strength wastes)
Â 
(Ord. 97, 10-5-1987)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 8-1-5B of this title.
8-2B-7: RECOVERY OF LOCAL CONSTRUCTION COSTS:
Local construction costs for the wastewater treatment facility may be recovered
through a special assessment as described in appendix B attached to the
ordinance codified herein. (Ord. 97, 10-5-1987)
8-2B-8: REVENUES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Sewer Service Fund:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The city hereby establishes a sewer service fund as an income fund
to receive all revenues generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement and
construction of the wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special
charges, fees, and assessments intended to retire construction debt.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The city also establishes the following accounts as income and
expenditure accounts within the sewer service fund:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Operation and maintenance account.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Equipment replacement account.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Debt retirement account.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Funds Separate And Apart:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the city
clerk-treasurer separate and apart from all other funds of the city. Funds
received by the sewer service fund shall be transferred to the operation and
maintenance account, the equipment replacement account, and the debt retirement
account in accordance with state and federal regulations and the provisions of
this article.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient to
ensure adequate replacement throughout the design or useful life, whichever is
longer, of the wastewater facility shall be held separate and apart in the
equipment replacement account and dedicated to offset replacement costs.
Interest income generated by the equipment replacement account shall remain in
the equipment replacement account.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient for
operation and maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the operation and
maintenance account. (Ord. 97, 10-5-1987)
8-2B-9: ADMINISTRATION 1 :
The sewer service charge and sewer service fund shall be administrated
according to the following provisions:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â System Of Accounts: The city administrator shall maintain a proper
system of accounts suitable for determining the operation and maintenance,
equipment replacement and debt retirement costs of the treatment works, and
shall furnish the city council with a report of such costs annually in the
city's financial report.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Annual Review: The city council shall annually determine whether or not
sufficient revenue is generated for the effective operation, maintenance,
replacement and management of the treatment works, and whether sufficient
revenue is being generated for debt retirement. The council will also determine
whether the user charges are distributed proportionately to each user in
accordance with subsection
8-2B-2B of this article and section 204(b)(2)(A) of the federal water pollution
control act, as amended. The city shall thereafter, but not later than the end
of the year, reassess and, as necessary, revise this article to ensure the
proportionality of the user charge and to ensure the sufficiency of funds to
maintain the capacity and performance to which the facilities were constructed,
and to retire the construction debt.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Annual Notice Of Operation, Maintenance And Replacement Costs: In
accordance with federal and state requirements, each user will be notified
annually in conjunction with a regular billing of the portion of the sewer
service charge attributable to operation, maintenance and replacement.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Records Kept: In accordance with federal and state requirements, the
city administrator shall be responsible for maintaining all records necessary
to document compliance with this article.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Bills For Service; Delinquencies 2 : Bills for sewer service charges
shall be rendered on a monthly basis succeeding the period for which the
service was rendered and shall be due on the first day of the month following
the date of rendering. Any bill not paid in full at that time will be
considered delinquent. At that time, the city shall notify the delinquent
owner/occupant in writing regarding the delinquent bill and subsequent penalty.
The penalty shall be computed as ten percent (10%) of the original bill and
shall be increased the same ten percent (10%) for every month the bill is
outstanding. A penalty not to exceed twenty five dollars ($25.00) may also be
attached to delinquent bills at the discretion of the city.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Liability For Service 3 : The owner of the premises shall be liable to
pay for the service to such premises, and the service is furnished to the
premises by the city only upon the condition that the owner of the premises is
liable therefor to the city.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Additional Costs: Any additional costs caused by discharges to the
treatment works of toxins or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of
restoring wastewater treatment services, cleanup and restoration of the
receiving waters and environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the
discharger(s) of said wastes, at no expense to the city. (Ord. 97, 10-5-1987;
amd. Ord. 125, 12-6-2004; Ord. 176, 8-14-2024)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See also section 8-1-5 of this title.
2 2. See also subsection 8-1-5C of this title.
3 1. See also section 8-1-12 of this title.
8-2B-10: PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Lien 1 : Each and every sewer service charge levied by and pursuant to
this article is hereby made a lien upon the lot or premises served, and all
such charges which are, on November 15 of each year, past due and delinquent
shall be certified to the county auditor as taxes or assessments on the real
estate. Nothing in this article shall be held or construed as in any way
stopping or interfering with the right of the city to levy as taxes or
assessments against any premises affected any delinquent or past due sewer
service charges. (Ord. 97, 10-5-1987; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Civil Suit: As an alternative to levying a lien, the city may, at its
discretion, file suit in a civil action to collect such amounts as are
delinquent and due against the occupant, owner, or user of the real estate, and
shall collect as well all attorney fees incurred by the city in filing the
civil action. Such attorney fees shall be fixed by order of the court.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Interest: In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and
chargeable to recording notices of the lien or filing a civil action, the owner
or user of the real estate being serviced by the treatment works shall be
liable for interest upon all unpaid balances at the rate of ten percent (10%)
per annum. (Ord. 97, 10-5-1987)
Â 
Notes
1 2. See also subsection 8-1-5C3 of this title.
8-2B-11: EFFECT OF PROVISIONS:
This article shall take precedence over any terms or conditions of agreements
or contracts which are inconsistent with the requirements of section 204(b)(1)
(A) of the federal water pollution control act and federal regulation 40 CFR
(code of federal regulations) 35.2140 of the environmental protection agency's
grant regulations. (Ord. 97, 10-5-1987)
CHAPTER 3
STORM WATER UTILITY
SECTION:
8-3-1: Purpose
8-3-2: Definitions
8-3-3: Utility Established
8-3-4: Fees
8-3-5: Billing And Payment
8-3-6: Disposition Of Revenues
8-3-7: Appeals
8-3-1: PURPOSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The purpose of this chapter is for the efficient, economic and safe
operation of a storm water system for the protection of the health, safety and
general welfare of the residents of the city.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The system, as constructed heretofore, has been financed and paid for
through the imposition of special assessments and ad valorem taxes. In addition
to these funding sources, it is now necessary and desirable to provide an
alternative method of recovering some or all of the future costs of improving,
establishing, enlarging, replacing, repairing, maintaining, and operating the
system through the imposition of charges as provided in this chapter. (Ord.
128, 10-10-2005)
8-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, the following words or phrases
have the meanings given in this section:
RUNOFF EQUIVALENT FACTOR (REF): Rates and charges for the use and availability
of the system are to be determined through the use of a "runoff equivalent
factor". For the purposes of this chapter one REF is defined as the ratio of
the average volume of surface water runoff generated by one acre of a
particular land use, to the average volume of runoff generated by one acre of
typical single-family residential land, during a standard 1-year rainfall
event.
STANDARDIZED ACREAGE: For the purpose of calculating storm water drainage
charges, all developed parcels shall be considered to have an acreage of one
acre.
STORM WATER UTILITY RATE: The monthly rate charged against one acre of land
having an REF of one (1.0). (Ord. 128, 10-10-2005)
8-3-3: UTILITY ESTABLISHED:
A municipal storm water utility is hereby established and shall be operated as
a public utility pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 444.075 from which
revenues will be derived subject to the provisions of this chapter and
Minnesota statutes. (Ord. 128, 10-10-2005)
8-3-4: FEES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Land Use Classifications:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Storm water drainage fees shall be determined by multiplying the REF
for a parcel's land use by the parcel's acreage and then multiplying the
resulting product by the storm water utility rate. The REF values for the
various land uses are as follows:
Â 
Classification Typical Land Uses                                      REF
1              Residential single-family, duplex, townhomes and       Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.0
               condominiums
2              Schools and nursing homes                              Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.0
3              Commercial, apartments, and trailer parks              Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.0
4              Churches and industrial                                Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.0
5              Vacant land (e.g., undeveloped land, agricultural land Â Â Â 0Â Â Â .0
               without a dwelling)
Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Other land uses not listed in the foregoing table shall be
classified by the city council by assigning them to the classes most nearly
like the listed uses from the standpoint of impervious coverage and runoff
produced.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Rate Determination: The storm water utility rate shall be determined by
the city council on an annual basis in the same manner as for other utilities,
and shall be charged to all parcels not listed as exempt in subsection C of
this section.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Exemption: Public rights of way shall be exempt from storm water
utility fees. (Ord. 128, 10-10-2005)
8-3-5: BILLING AND PAYMENT:
Storm water utility charges shall be computed and billed periodically with, and
included as a charge on, bills issued by the city for water and sewer services
1 . If a parcel of land subject to the storm water utility is not served by
other utilities, a separate bill shall be issued on a monthly basis. All
charges shall be subject to the following penalties and remedies for
delinquencies:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â All storm water utility charges shall be due on the date specified by
the city for the respective amount and shall be delinquent thereafter.
Delinquent accounts will be charged a late fee of ten percent (10%) of the
amount past due. The late charge will be added to the bill effective the first
day of each month of the delinquency. The city shall attempt to collect
delinquent accounts promptly.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 444.075, the clerk-treasurer
shall prepare an assessment roll each year providing for assessment of any
delinquent accounts against the respective properties served. The assessment
roll shall be delivered to the council for adoption on or before the regular
city council meeting in November of each year for certification to the county
auditor for collection along with taxes. The city shall also have the right to
bring a civil action or to take other legal remedies to collect unpaid
delinquent accounts. (Ord. 128, 10-10-2005)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See section 8-1-5 of this title.
8-3-6: DISPOSITION OF REVENUES:
All fees collected for the storm water utility shall be placed in a fund for
storm water purposes. Revenues shall be used to pay for the construction,
reconstruction, repair, enlargement, improvement, or other obtainment and the
maintenance, operation and use of the facilities, and all other purposes as
permitted by Minnesota statutes section 444.075. (Ord. 128, 10-10-2005)
8-3-7: APPEALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Request For Appeal: If a property owner or person responsible for
paying for the storm water utility fee believes that a particular assigned fee
is incorrect, such person may request, in writing, that the fee be recomputed.
Such request shall be made within thirty (30) days of the mailing of the
billing in question, and shall immediately be addressed by appropriate city
staff. If the property owner is not in agreement with the city staff's
determination of the fee, he or she may appeal the determination in writing by
making a request for a hearing to the storm water utility board of appeals
within fourteen (14) days of the staff's determination. The city council shall
act as the storm water utility board of appeals. (Ord. 128, 10-10-2005)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Hearing: A hearing before the board of appeals shall be scheduled to
occur within forty five (45) days of receiving the property owner's request for
a hearing. Notice of the hearing must be served on the property owner at least
fourteen (14) days in advance unless a shorter time is accepted by all parties.
Service of the notice shall be by first class mail and will be complete upon
mailing. The property owner shall have the burden of proving that the storm
water utility fee for his or her property is incorrect. (Ord. 128, 10-10-2005;
amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Judicial Review: The property owner may obtain judicial review of the
decision of the board of appeals by proceeding pursuant to a writ of certiorari
in the appropriate court. (Ord. 128, 10-10-2005)
CHAPTER 4
SOLID WASTE DISPOSAL AND COLLECTION
SECTION:
8-4-1: Purpose
8-4-2: Definitions
8-4-3: Collection And Disposal Requirements
8-4-4: Fees
8-4-5: Enforcement
8-4-1: PURPOSE:
The city council finds that it is in the best interest of the health and safety
of the residents of the city to mandate that all persons in the city be
required to use the solid waste disposal system set forth in this chapter.
Disposal of solid waste through this system will help to ensure that solid
waste is disposed of properly and promptly and will help to avoid the potential
health and safety risks to residents and persons in the city caused by improper
disposal or lack of disposal of solid waste. (Ord. 123, 6-7-2004)
8-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and terms shall have the
meanings set out in this section, unless the context specifically indicates
otherwise:
BULKY WASTE: Inorganic waste material from a source, other than construction
debris or hazardous waste, with a weight or volume greater than appropriate for
allowance in the waste containers. Bulky waste includes large appliances and
furniture. Bulky waste does not include tires, batteries, waste oil or yard
waste.
COMMERCIAL: Any retail business, service establishment, office, multi-family
dwelling or apartment building, wholesale business, manufacturing and warehouse
or storage buildings.
CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS: Inorganic waste material resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair or demolition operations.
DISPOSAL: Transporting of solid waste to a disposal facility licensed and
approved by all applicable governmental entities, including, but not
necessarily limited to, the county of Becker and the state of Minnesota.
GARBAGE: Any organic waste normally produced from the handling and preparation
of foods and decayed and spoiled food from any source. Garbage does not include
yard waste or any inorganic rubbish.
HAZARDOUS WASTE: All waste designated as hazardous by the United States
environmental protection agency or appropriate state of Minnesota agency.
PERSON: Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
municipal corporation, governmental unit, or group.
RESIDENTIAL: All single-family dwellings or buildings used for and as single-
family residences or dwelling places on a permanent or seasonal basis.
RUBBISH: Inorganic materials such as packaging products, cans, bottles, paper,
ashes, sweepings and other similar inorganic waste.
SOLID WASTE: Waste materials in a solid or semiliquid state including, but not
limited to, garbage, rubbish, yard waste, bulky waste, construction debris and
hazardous waste.
YARD WASTE: Organic plant materials collected from yards or gardens including
leaves, grass clippings, vines, stalks and tree branches. (Ord. 123, 6-7-2004)
8-4-3: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS:
Persons generating, possessing or having control or ownership of solid waste in
the city shall collect and dispose of that waste only as provided in this
chapter.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Residential Garbage And Rubbish: All residential garbage and rubbish
generated or present within the city shall be collected and disposed of
according to the requirements of this chapter. The city may contract with
private solid waste collection businesses to provide this service, and all
persons generating, possessing or having control or ownership of residential
garbage and rubbish in the city shall collect and dispose of that waste
according to the terms of any such contract then in effect. Each property where
residential garbage or rubbish is generated shall have located on the property
an on site collection facility or container adequate to enclose and contain all
of the garbage and rubbish generated on the property during the period of time
between disposal dates. Persons generating, possessing or having control or
ownership of residential garbage and rubbish shall pay for disposal pursuant to
the garbage utility service fee set by resolution of the city council.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Commercial Garbage And Rubbish: All commercial garbage and rubbish
generated or present within the city shall be collected and disposed of by the
persons generating, possessing or having control or ownership of such waste
promptly, at least once every seven (7) days, and said persons shall not allow
such waste to become a nuisance. Each property where commercial garbage or
rubbish is generated shall have located on the property an on site collection
facility or container adequate to enclose and contain all of the garbage and
rubbish generated on the property during the period of time between disposal
dates. Commercial garbage and rubbish need not be disposed of by use of the
city garbage utility service. Persons generating, possessing or having control
or ownership of such waste may, but are not required to, independently contract
and pay for disposal services for such waste with the private solid waste
collection business used by the city.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Yard Waste, Bulky Waste And Construction Debris: Yard waste, bulky
waste and construction debris generated or present within the city shall be
disposed of by the persons generating, possessing or having control or
ownership of such waste promptly, and such waste shall not be allowed to become
a nuisance. Yard waste, bulky waste and construction debris shall not be
disposed of by use of the city garbage utility service. Persons generating,
possessing or having control or ownership of such waste may, but are not
required to, independently contract and pay for disposal services for such
waste with the private solid waste collection business used by the city.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Hazardous Waste: Hazardous waste generated or present within the city
shall be disposed of by the persons generating, possessing or having control or
ownership of such waste promptly and according to all rules and regulations of
the United States environmental protection agency, the appropriate state of
Minnesota agency or the county. (Ord. 123, 6-7-2004)
8-4-4: FEES 1 :
The city council may establish appropriate utility fees by resolution for use
of the city garbage utility service for the disposal of garbage and rubbish as
required herein. (Ord. 123, 6-7-2004)
Â 
Notes
  1. See also subsection 8-1-5B of this title; see subsection 8-1-5C of this
1 title for bills and payment provisions; see section 8-1-12 of this title for
  liability for service.
8-4-5: ENFORCEMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Notice Of Violation; Failure To Comply: In the event a person
generating, possessing or having control or ownership of solid waste in the
city fails to collect and dispose of that waste as provided in this chapter,
the city shall mail to such person at such person's last known address a notice
requiring compliance with this chapter within three (3) days of said notice.
Failure to comply with this notice within the time allowed shall constitute a
separate misdemeanor offense for each day of noncompliance past the three (3)
days, punishable as provided by law. (Ord. 123, 6-7-2004; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Collection Of Delinquent Charges: In the event a person generating,
possessing or having control or ownership of residential solid waste in the
city fails to pay the garbage utility service fee when due, collection of that
fee and all delinquent fees shall be as provided by law. (Ord. 123, 6-7-2004)
TITLE 9
BUILDING AND DEVELOPMENT
CHAPTER 1
BUILDING CODE
SECTION:
9-1-1: State Building Code Adopted
9-1-2: Application, Administration And Enforcement
9-1-3: Permits And Fees
9-1-4: Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
9-1-1: STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED:
The Minnesota state building code, as adopted by the commissioner of
administration pursuant to Minnesota statutes chapters 16B.59 to 16B.75,
including all of the amendments, rules and regulations established, adopted and
published from time to time by the Minnesota commissioner of administration
through the building codes and standards division, is hereby adopted by
reference with the exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically
adopted in this chapter. The Minnesota state building code is hereby
incorporated in this chapter as if fully set out herein. (Ord. 127, 8-8-2005)
9-1-2: APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The application, administration, and enforcement of the building code
shall be in accordance with the Minnesota state building code. The building
code shall be enforced within the extraterritorial limits permitted by
Minnesota statutes section 16B.62, subdivision 1. (Ord. 127, 8-8-2005; amd.
2008 Code)
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The building code enforcement agency of the city shall be the city
clerk-treasurer.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The building code shall be enforced by the Minnesota certified building
official designated by the city to administer the building code, as per
Minnesota statutes section 16B.65, subdivision 1. (Ord. 127, 8-8-2005)
9-1-3: PERMITS AND FEES:
The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as authorized in
Minnesota statutes section 16B.62, subdivision 1. Permit fees shall be assessed
for work governed by the building code in accordance with the fee schedule
adopted by the city and as adjusted from time to time by resolution. In
addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued for work
governed by the building code in accordance with Minnesota statutes section
16B.70. (Ord. 127, 8-8-2005)
9-1-4: MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
A violation of the building code is a misdemeanor, as per Minnesota statutes
section 16B.69, punishable as provided by law and/or by the city administrative
penalty ordinance 1 . (Ord. 127, 8-8-2005)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See title 1, chapter 4, article B of this code.
CHAPTER 2
RENTAL UNITS
SECTION:
9-2-1: Findings And Purpose
9-2-2: Definitions
9-2-3: Registration Required
9-2-4: Application For Registration
9-2-5: Annual Registration; Renewals
9-2-6: Rental Unit Density Limit
9-2-7: Background Investigations And Crime-Free Lease Addendum
9-2-8: Fees And Charges
9-2-9: Posting Registration
9-2-10: Transfer Of Property
9-2-11: Location Of Owner Or Manager
9-2-12: Occupancy Register Required
9-2-13: Maintenance Standards
9-2-14: Inspections; Action
9-2-15: Conduct On Registered Premises
9-2-16: Tenant's Right To Seek Police And Emergency Assistance
9-2-17: Failure To Grant Registration; Revocation, Suspension Or Failure To
Renew Registration
9-2-18: Summary Action
9-2-19: Public Records
9-2-20: Notices
9-2-21: Applicable Laws
9-2-22: Exemptions
9-2-23: Enforcement; Misdemeanor Violation; Penalties
9-2-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The City Council finds that the operation of residential rental units
is a business enterprise and rental unit owners are responsible to take such
reasonable steps as are necessary to ensure that the citizens who occupy such
rental units, as well as neighboring properties, may pursue the quiet enjoyment
of the normal activities of life in surroundings that are safe, secure and
sanitary, free from nuisances and annoyances, and free from unreasonable fears
about safety of persons and property.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The City Council finds that there is a need for periodic Municipal
inspection of residential rental units in the City to ensure that such units
meet City and State Safety, Health, Fire and Zoning Codes and to promote the
public health, safety and welfare of the community at large and the residents
of rental units within the City.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The City Council finds that a Municipal registration program is
appropriate to effectively enforce residential rental unit maintenance
standards and correct or prevent law violations, nuisances and other
disturbances and disorders involving residential rental units within the City.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The City Council finds that an effective means of implementing the
foregoing findings is registration of all residential rental units within the
City and inspection of such units from time to time as determined appropriate
in the exercise of discretion by the Administrator and in response to
complaints involving such units. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
ADMINISTRATOR: The City Administrator, or such person as the City Administrator
designates, to carry out the responsibilities of the Administrator as provided
by this chapter.
DWELLING: Any building or other permanent or temporary structure, including a
manufactured or mobile home, which is wholly or partly used, or intended to be
used, for living or sleeping by human occupants.
LOCAL PROPERTY MANAGER: A natural person residing within fifty (50) miles of
the City who is authorized by the rental unit owner to make decisions for the
owner about rental, occupancy and maintenance of the rental unit.
REGISTRATION HOLDER: A person or entity to whom registration for a rental unit
is issued under this chapter.
RENT, LEASE, LET OR SUBLET: The leasing of a rental unit to a nonowner for a
fixed or nonfixed period of time, and shall include lease to buy, unrecorded
contract for deed, installment sales, purchases and other similar arrangements
whereby nonpayment of a periodic payment means the occupants may be evicted
without the necessity of either a statutory mortgage foreclosure procedure, a
statutory termination of contract for deed procedure, or a statutory
repossession procedure.
RENTAL PROPERTY: Any rental unit and the real property upon which it is
located.
RENTAL UNIT OR RESIDENTIAL RENTAL UNITS: Any house, apartment, condominium,
townhouse, manufactured home, mobile home, mobile or manufactured home lot,
room, or group of rooms constituting or located within a dwelling and forming a
single habitable unit.
SHALL AND MUST; SHOULD AND MAY:"Shall" and "must", as used in this chapter, are
each mandatory. "Should" and "may", as used in this chapter, are each
permissive or directory. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018; amd. Ord. 172, 1-22-2025)
9-2-3: REGISTRATION REQUIRED:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â No person or entity may hereafter occupy, allow to be occupied or rent,
lease, let or sublet a rental unit to another person or entity for occupancy
unless that rental unit is registered for occupancy pursuant to a valid and
current rental unit registration issued by the City Council or Administrator.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â No person or entity may charge, accept, or retain rent for any rental
unit unless the rental unit has a valid and current registration.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â An unregistered rental unit shall be considered a new rental unit and
must comply with all applicable Federal, State and local codes and ordinances
to be eligible for a registration.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Any person or entity having an ownership interest in any rental unit,
upon a second violation of this section, shall be ineligible to hold or have an
interest in a rental unit registration for a period of two (2) years. (Ord.
151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-4: APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION:
Any person or entity desiring to rent, let, lease or sublet any rental unit
shall apply for registration by using forms furnished by the Administrator for
that purpose. The forms must provide information required by the Administrator,
including the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Name, address, phone number (and email and fax number, if available) of
the property owner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All partnerships, corporations, limited liability companies or other
recognized business associations that own a rental unit to be registered under
this chapter shall submit, upon the request of the Administrator, the name and
address of all partners, shareholders or interest holders. If requested by the
Administrator, information regarding the names and addresses of all partners,
shareholders or interest holders must be submitted in a sworn affidavit.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Name, address, phone number (and email and fax number, if available) of
a designated local property manager, if applicable.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The street address of the rental property.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The number of sleeping rooms within the rental unit.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â The name, address, phone number (and email and fax number, if
available) of the person authorized to make, or order made, repairs or services
for the property if in violation of City or State Codes, if the person is
different than the owner or local property manager.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â No rental registration shall be issued or renewed unless the owner has
paid all Property Taxes assessed to the rental property and the rental property
is not delinquent in any other obligations to the City. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-5: ANNUAL REGISTRATION; RENEWALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Registration shall be required annually and be issued prior to the
renewal date. The City will annually mail registration renewal forms to rental
unit owners or their designated local property managers at least ninety (90)
days prior to expiration. Failure of the City to mail a renewal form and
failure of an owner or local property manager to receive a renewal form does
not excuse or waive the registration required by this chapter. Completed
registration renewal forms, containing all required information, must be
delivered to the Administrator at least sixty (60) days prior to expiration of
the existing registration. The City may issue registration renewals prior to
the renewal date of each successive year. If by the renewal date a registration
has not been renewed, a reinstatement fee for each rental unit will be charged.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â A person or entity who is operating a rental unit after the
registration has expired is operating an unregistered rental unit. (Ord. 151,
9-10-2018)
9-2-6: RENTAL UNIT DENSITY LIMIT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â In the Single and Two-Family Residential (R-1) Zoning District, no more
than ten percent (10%) of the lots on any block shall be eligible to obtain a
rental unit registration, unless a temporary rental unit registration is
granted by the City Council, as provided herein. Table 1 indicates how many
lots per block are eligible for a rental unit registration based on the number
of lots that exist in a block.
Â Â Â Table 1
Â 
Lots/Block Rental Units Allowed
6-15       1
16-25      2
26-35      4
36-45      4
46-55      5
Â 
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The following guidelines shall apply to determine eligible blocks and
lots.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â For the purposes of this section, a block shall be defined as an
area of land containing a minimum of six (6) lots within the Single and Two-
Family Residential (R-l) Zoning District that is enclosed within the perimeter
of streets, watercourses, public parks, municipally owned lots, and/or city
boundaries, as depicted in the map attached to Ordinance 157, which is hereby
adopted by reference as if laid out fully herein. The City Council hereby
adopts the attached map that depicts the boundary of blocks for establishing
the number of lots in a block. The map may be amended by City Council
resolution and without public hearing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â This section shall apply to legally conforming lots of record and
legally nonconforming lots of record. For the purposes of this section, a lot
of record may also be referred to as a lot or property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â If a block contains more than one type of zoning district, only lots
within the Single and Two-Family Residential (R-1) Zoning District shall be
included in the calculation of the total number of lots per block.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Legal nonconforming rental units shall be allowed to continue,
provided the legal nonconforming use complies with the Zoning Ordinance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Commercial or industrial uses located in the Single and Two-Family
Residential (R-1) Zoning District shall not be included in the calculation of
the total number of lots per block.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â If the number of rental units meets or exceeds the permitted number of
rental units on a defined block on the effective date of this section, no
additional rental unit registrations shall be approved for that block, unless a
temporary rental unit registration is granted by the City Council, as provided
herein. Existing rental unit registrations may be renewed; however, should a
rental unit registration not be renewed, or if the rental unit registration is
revoked or lapses, the rental unit registration shall not be reinstated unless
it is in conformance with this section and other applicable sections of this
code.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â If the number of rental units meets or exceeds the permitted number of
rental units on a defined block on the effective date of this section, a
property owner may request a temporary rental unit registration to allow an
additional rental unit for that block. The City Council may grant or deny a
temporary rental unit registration at its sole discretion. Circumstances
justifying consideration of a temporary rental unit registration may include
such situations as the homeowner's deployment for military purposes or the
property is listed for sale and the owner and the owner's family are not
residing at the property. Persons requesting a temporary rental unit
registration must make an annual application to the City. No property owner
shall hold a temporary rental unit registration for the same property for more
than two (2) consecutive years. (Ord. 157, 7-13-2020)
9-2-7: BACKGROUND INVESTIGATIONS AND CRIME-FREE LEASE ADDENDUM:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The Police Department may conduct criminal history/background
investigations on prospective tenants upon request by the owner or local
property manager of the rental unit. Each request must be on a form approved or
provided by the Police Department.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The Minnesota Crime-Free Lease Addendum, or its equivalent, should be
used as part of all rental agreements or leases. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018; amd.
Ord. 157, 7-13-2020)
9-2-8: FEES AND CHARGES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Registration-Related Fees: The fees for rental unit registration,
registration renewal, reinstatement, and inspection shall be in the amount as
established by the City's fee schedule.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Taxes, Assessments, Utility Fees, And Other Charges: The property owner
shall be solely responsible for the payment of all real estate taxes, special
assessments, City utility fees, and other City charges associated with the
rental unit as they become due and payable. Past due real estate taxes, special
assessments, City utility fees, and other City charges associated with a rental
unit shall be grounds for denying a registration application, revoking or
suspending a registration, or denying a renewal registration.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Billing: Effective January 1, 2020, the City will only bill the
property owner for utility-related services provided to the rental unit.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Payment Required: No registration shall be issued or renewed for a
rental unit unless all required registration-related fees have been paid and
there are no outstanding real estate taxes, special assessments, City utility
fees, and other City charges associated with the rental unit. (Ord. 151, 9-10-
2018; Ord. 154, 12-9-2019)
9-2-9: POSTING REGISTRATION:
Each rental unit registration holder must post the rental unit registration in
a conspicuous spot near the front entry to the rental unit in a public
corridor, hallway or lobby; must retain a copy of the rental unit registration
on file; and must be able to produce said copy upon demand. Failure to post the
registration and keep the registration posted is a misdemeanor, but is not
grounds for termination of registration. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-10: TRANSFER OF PROPERTY:
Every new owner of a rental unit, whether fee owner or contract purchaser,
shall furnish to the Administrator the new owner's name, address, phone number
(and email and fax number, if available) and the name, address, phone number
(and email and fax number, if available) of the new owner's designated local
property manager before taking possession of the rental property upon closing
the transaction. No new registration fee is to be required of the new owner
during the year in which such possession takes place; provided, that the
previous owner has paid all registration fees and has complied with all
requirements of this chapter and any violations of Health, Zoning, Fire or
Safety Codes of the City. If the new owner contemplates any change in the type
of occupancy as originally registered, a new registration application will be
required. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-11: LOCATION OF OWNER OR MANAGER:
Each rental unit must have an owner, or local property manager designated by
the owner, who resides within fifty (50) miles of the City. (Ord. 151, 9-10-
2018)
9-2-12: OCCUPANCY REGISTER REQUIRED:
Every registration holder shall keep, or cause to be kept, a current register
of occupancy for each rental unit that provides the legal names of all adult
occupants and the number of occupants under eighteen (18) years of age. The
register shall be available for review by the Administrator or their authorized
representatives at all reasonable times. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-13: MAINTENANCE STANDARDS:
Every rental unit must be maintained in compliance with the Building Code,
dwelling maintenance standards, nuisance ordinance and noise ordinance of the
City, State Nuisance Statutes, State Building Codes, State Fire Code,
respectively, as now in force and hereafter amended, revised or replaced, and
in compliance with all other standards, ordinances, laws and regulations
governing use, occupancy, construction and maintenance of property and conduct
of persons on that property. Rental unit registration does not constitute
certification of compliance with such codes, standards, ordinances or statutes
by the City. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-14: INSPECTIONS; ACTION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Authority: Personnel directed by the Administrator are hereby
authorized to make inspections reasonably necessary for the enforcement of this
chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Right Of Access: All persons authorized herein to inspect shall have
the authority to enter, at all reasonable times, any rental property,
registered or required to be registered, for the purpose of enforcing this
chapter. Such inspections shall be made at such frequencies as the
Administrator shall deem appropriate and necessary. All registration holders
shall, as a condition of registration, consent to such inspections.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Rental Unit Inspections: The City shall provide reasonable advance
notice to the owner, or the local property manager, prior to entry into any
rental unit for the purpose of inspection. The owner shall be responsible for
scheduling the inspection and notifying any existing tenant of the rental unit
inspection. The owner of the rental unit or their representative shall be
present at the inspection. All registration holders shall, as a condition of
registration, consent to such entries for inspection. If any owner, local
property manager or tenant fails or refuses to permit entry to a rental unit
under its control for an inspection pursuant to this section, the City may
pursue any remedy at law or under this Code, including, but not limited to,
charging a reinspection fee, securing an administrative search warrant for the
rental unit, denying a registration application, revoking or suspending a
registration, or denying a renewal registration. Upon completion of a rental
unit inspection, the City shall provide a completed copy of the inspection
report to the rental unit owner or their designated local property manager.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Notice Of Violation: Written notice of a violation of this chapter may
be given to the registration holder by first class mail directed to the address
of the registration holder as shown by the Administrator's registration
application file. Said notice may contain a compliance order stating that
compliance with this chapter shall be made immediately, and in that case, the
notice shall advise the registration holder that the property may be
reinspected in not less than fifteen (15) days.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Appeals: A registration holder may appeal to the City Council the
requirements of any compliance order. Such appeal shall be requested by
submitting a written notice of appeal to the Administrator within fifteen (15)
days of the date of issuance of the compliance order. Enforcement of the
compliance order shall be stayed during the appeals process. The appeal will be
heard by the City Council at its next meeting, occurring at least fifteen (15)
days after the filing of the notice of appeal, at which time the registration
holder, local property manager for the registration holder, or an attorney
representing them, may appear and make a presentation to the City Council.
After the hearing, the Council may uphold, reverse, or modify the requirements
of the compliance order based upon the provisions of this chapter and upon the
protection of the public health, sanitation, safety or general welfare of the
community at large or the residents of rental units within the City. The City
Council shall issue written findings and determination within thirty one (31)
days of the hearing.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Compliance: No rental registration shall be issued or renewed by the
City unless the rental property complies with all applicable Federal, State and
local codes, ordinances and regulations. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018; amd. Ord. 172,
1-22-2025)
9-2-15: CONDUCT ON REGISTERED PREMISES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Disorderly Premises: It is the responsibility of the registration
holder to require and ensure that occupants of the registered premises conduct
themselves in such a manner as to not cause the premises to be disorderly or to
be used, occupied or maintained in violation of law, code, statute or
ordinance. For purposes of this section, a rental unit is disorderly and in
violation of law, code, statute or ordinance when any of the following
activities occurs in, on or at the registered premises:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Drug-related illegal activity occurring in or near the rental
dwelling unit. Drug-related illegal activity means the illegal possession or
constructive possession, manufacture, sale, distribution, purchase, use or
possession with intent to manufacture, sell or distribute a controlled
substance, as defined in the Controlled Substance Act (21 USC section 802), or
possession of drug paraphernalia per Minnesota Statutes section 152.092.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any act of violence or threat of violence including, but not limited
to, the discharge of firearms, prostitution, intimidation or any other act that
otherwise jeopardizes the health, safety or welfare of the owner, agent,
manager, other tenants, tenant's family members, guests or neighboring property
owners.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.75 through section 609.76
(prohibiting gambling).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.321 through section 609.324
(prohibiting prostitution and acts relating thereto).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 152.01 et seq., which prohibits the
unlawful sale or possession of controlled substances.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 340A.401, which prohibits the unlawful
sale of alcoholic beverages.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 340A.503, which prohibits the underage
use of alcoholic beverages.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Title 4, chapter 1 of this Code, which prohibits nuisances.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 97B.021, Minnesota Statutes, section
97B.045, Minnesota Statutes, section 609.66 through section 609.67 and
Minnesota Statutes, section 624.712 through section 624.716 prohibiting the
unlawful possession, transportation, sale or use of a weapon.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.72, which prohibits disorderly
conduct, when the violation disturbs the peace and quiet of the occupants of at
least one unit on the licensed premises or other premises, other than the unit
occupied by the person(s) committing the violation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.185 through section 609.205, which
prohibit murder and manslaughter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.221 through section 609.2231, which
prohibit assault.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.342 through section 609.3451, which
prohibit criminal sexual conduct.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.52, which prohibits theft.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.561 through section 609.5632, which
prohibit arson.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 16.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.582, which prohibits burglary.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 17.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.595, which prohibit damage to
property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 18.Â Â Â Laws relating to contributing to the need for protection or
services or delinquency of a minor as defined in Minnesota Statutes, section
260C et seq.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 19.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.33, relating to owning, leasing,
operating, managing, maintaining or conducting a disorderly house or inviting
or attempting to invite others to visit or remain in a disorderly house.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 20.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.50, which prohibits obstructing the
legal process.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 21.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.713, which prohibits terroristic
threats.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 22.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.715, which prohibits presence of
unlawful assembly.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 23.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.71, which prohibits riot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 24.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, sections 609.226, 347.52, 347.542, relating to
dangerous dogs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 25.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.78, which prohibits interfering
with "911" phone calls.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 26.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 243.166 (Predatory Offender
Registration).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 27.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.229 (crime committed for benefit of
a gang).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 28.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.26, subdivision 1(8) (causing or
contributing to a child being a runaway).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 29.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.903 (racketeering).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 30.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.53 (possession of stolen property).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 31.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.749 which prohibits a violation of
a restraining order or order for protection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 32.Â Â Â Minnesota Statutes, section 609.255 (false imprisonment) and
Minnesota Statutes, section 609.25 (kidnapping).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 33.Â Â Â Conduct which constitutes a violation of any other Federal, State
or local code, ordinance or regulation which is reasonably likely to annoy,
harass or threaten the tenants, occupants, guests or visitors of rental units,
or residents, occupants, guests or visitors of neighboring properties.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Enforcement And Administration: Personnel directed by the Administrator
shall be responsible for the enforcement and administration of this section.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Violations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Upon determination that a registered premises was involved in a
violation of subsection A of this section, the City shall notify the
registration holder by first class mail of the violation, direct the
registration holder to take steps to prevent further violations, and issue a
fine of up to two hundred dollars ($200.00) to the registration holder. The
fine shall be paid within fifteen (15) days after notification is issued. If
the registration holder fails to pay the fine, the registration for the
individual registered premises may be denied, revoked, suspended, or not
renewed by the City Council, as provided in section 9-2-17 of this chapter. The
registration holder may appeal the violation determination, as provided in
subsection C4 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Upon a second violation within twelve (12) months of subsection A of
this section involving the registered premises, the City shall notify the
registration holder by first class mail of the violation and require the
registration holder to submit a written report of the action taken to prevent
further violations on the premises, as well as issue a fine of up to four
hundred dollars ($400.00) to the registration holder. The written report shall
be submitted to the Administrator within fifteen (15) days of request of the
report and shall detail all actions taken by the registration holder in
response to all notices regarding violations to subsection A of this section
within the preceding twelve (12) months. The fine shall be paid within fifteen
(15) days after notification is issued. If the registration holder fails to
comply with the requirements, the registration for the individual registered
premises may be denied, revoked, suspended, or not renewed by the City Council,
as provided in section
9-2-17 of this chapter. The registration holder may appeal the violation
determination, as provided in subsection C4 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â If a third or subsequent violation of subsection A of this section
occurs at the registered premises within twelve (12) months after any two (2)
previous instances for which notices were sent to the registration holder
regarding the same registered premises, the registration for the individual
registered premises may be denied, revoked, suspended, or not renewed by the
City Council, as provided in section
9-2-17 of this chapter. The registration holder may appeal the violation
determination, as provided in subsection C4 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Any registration holder aggrieved by a violation of this section
shall have the right to appeal the determination to the City Council. Such
appeal shall be requested by submitting a written notice of appeal to the
Administrator within fifteen (15) days after notification is issued. During the
appeals process, the deadline for any requirements shall be stayed. The appeal
will be heard by the City Council at its next meeting, occurring at least
fifteen (15) days after the filing of the notice of appeal, at which time the
registration holder, local property manager for the registration holder, or an
attorney representing them, may appear and make a presentation to the City
Council. After the hearing, the Council may uphold, reverse, or modify the
determination based upon the provisions of this chapter and upon the protection
of the public health, sanitation, safety or general welfare of the community at
large or the residents of rental units within the City. The City Council shall
issue written findings and determination within thirty one (31) days of the
hearing. If the City Council upholds the original determination, the
registration holder shall be notified by first class mail of any outstanding
requirements and be provided fifteen (15) days from the date of the
notification to complete said requirements. If the registration holder fails to
comply with the requirements, the registration for the individual registered
premises may be denied, revoked, suspended, or not renewed by the City Council,
as provided in section
9-2-17 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â No adverse registration action may be imposed where the violation of
this section occurred during the pendency of unlawful detainer eviction
proceedings brought under Minnesota Statutes, section 504B, within thirty (30)
days of notice given by the registration holder to a tenant to vacate the
premises at which the violation occurred, or when a court has refused to order
a tenant's eviction. Unlawful detainer eviction proceedings or a notice to
vacate the premises will not, however, bar adverse registration action unless
diligently pursued by the registration holder. Action to deny, revoke, suspend
or not renew registration for violation of this section may be postponed or
dismissed by the City Council at any time if it appears to the Council that the
registration holder has taken appropriate remedial action.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â The standard of proof to be used in determinations as to conduct
constituting violations under this section is a fair preponderance of evidence
in support of such a determination. It is not necessary that criminal charges
be brought to support a determination of violation of this section, nor shall
the fact of dismissal or acquittal of such a criminal charge operate as a bar
to adverse registration action.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â For the purpose of this chapter, a violation under this section
includes violations by the rental unit renters or occupants, or by their
visitors or guests, in or at the rental property, including anywhere on the
property grounds and premises of an apartment building, home or mobile home
park at which the rental unit is situated. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-16: TENANT'S RIGHT TO SEEK POLICE AND EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE:
The registration holder or registration holder's agents, representatives or
employees shall not bar or limit a tenant's right to call for police or
emergency assistance. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-17: FAILURE TO GRANT REGISTRATION; REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR FAILURE TO
RENEW REGISTRATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â City Rights:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The City reserves the right to not register a rental unit unless it
complies with the requirements of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any registration issued under this chapter is subject to the right,
which is hereby expressly reserved by the City, to deny, suspend, revoke or not
to renew the same should the registration holder or his agents, employees,
representatives or lessees, directly or indirectly, fail to comply with the
requirements of this chapter or operate or maintain the rental property
contrary to the provisions of this chapter or any other ordinance of the City
or any special permit issued by the City, or the laws of the State. Provided,
however, registration shall not be denied, suspended, revoked or not renewed if
the registration holder complies with a compliance order or orders in a
reasonably timely manner as determined by the City Council.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notice Requirements: The City Council shall notify the applicant that
registration has been denied, or the registration holder that registration is
being suspended, revoked or not renewed. The suspension, revocation or
nonrenewal shall occur thirty five (35) days after the date of the notification
order, or at such later date as set out in the notification.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Vacation Of Affected Rental Units: When a rental unit registration has
been denied, suspended, revoked, or not renewed, the City Council shall order
the affected rental units vacated, giving occupants a reasonable time to
arrange new housing and to move their possessions. A notice of the order shall
be mailed to each of the occupants and prominently posted at the affected
rental units. The notice shall clearly indicate the date upon which occupants
must vacate.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Appeals:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A determination by the City Council to deny, suspend, revoke or not
renew registration of a rental unit may be appealed to the City Council by
filing with the Administrator a written notice of appeal within fifteen (15)
days of the date on which the City Council mails such determination to the
applicant or registration holder. In that event, the appeal will be heard by
the City Council at its next meeting occurring at least fifteen (15) days after
the filing of the notice of appeal.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â At any appeal of a determination by the City Council under this
chapter, the registration holder or applicant, local property manager for the
registration holder or applicant, or an attorney representing them, may appear
and make a presentation to the City Council. After the hearing, the Council may
uphold, reverse or modify the decision based upon the provisions of this
chapter and upon the protection of the public health, sanitation, safety or
general welfare of the community at large or the residents of rental units
within the City. The City Council shall issue written findings and
determination within thirty one (31) days of the hearing.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Effect Of Revocation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Any person or entity who has had an interest in a registration
revoked pursuant to this section shall be ineligible from obtaining any new
rental unit registrations for a period of three (3) years.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any person or entity who has had an interest in two (2) or more
registrations revoked pursuant to this section shall be ineligible to hold or
have an interest in a rental unit registration for a period of five (5) years.
(Ord. 151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-18: SUMMARY ACTION:
As a condition of receiving rental unit registration, each registration holder
is presumed to agree and consent that when the conduct of any registration
holder or registration holder's agent, representative, employee or lessee, or
the condition of the rental unit or the property in or on which it is located,
is detrimental to the public health, sanitation, safety and general welfare of
the community at large or residents of the rental units so as to constitute a
nuisance, fire hazard, or other unsafe or dangerous condition and thus give
rise to an emergency, the City Council shall have the authority to summarily
condemn or close individual rental units or such areas of the rental dwelling
as the Council deems necessary. Notice of summary condemnation shall be posted
at the units or areas affected and shall describe the units or areas affected.
No person shall remove the posted notice, other than personnel directed by the
Administrator. Any person aggrieved by the decision shall follow the procedure
set out in this chapter; however, the date of the hearing may be expedited with
the consent of the registration holder. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-19: PUBLIC RECORDS:
All records, files and documents pertaining to rental unit registration and
rental unit inspections may be obtained by the Administrator and will be
available to the public as allowed, permitted or required by State law or City
ordinance. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-20: NOTICES:
Whenever a notice is required to be sent to or served upon the registration
holder or occupants of a rental unit under this chapter, notice shall be deemed
sufficient if sent by first class mail to the address listed in the most recent
registration application for the rental unit. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-21: APPLICABLE LAWS:
Registration holders are subject to all of the ordinances of the City and State
relating to rental dwellings, and this chapter shall not be construed or
interpreted to supersede or limit any other applicable ordinance or law. (Ord.
151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-22: EXEMPTIONS:
This chapter does not apply to campus dormitory and campus residence units
owned, operated or managed by a governmental entity or agency, hospital units
or rooms, nursing homes, retirement homes or other similar rental spaces which
are otherwise registered by the State or the City. (Ord. 151, 9-10-2018)
9-2-23: ENFORCEMENT; MISDEMEANOR VIOLATION; PENALTIES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Nothing in this chapter prevents the City from taking enforcement
action under any of its Fire, Housing, Zoning, Health, Safety or other Codes or
ordinances and State laws for violations thereof, or from seeking injunctive
relief and criminal prosecution for violations of any ordinance, code or law.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Nothing contained in this chapter prevents the City from seeking
injunctive relief against a property owner or designated property manager who
fails to comply with the terms and conditions of this chapter or from obtaining
an order closing such rental units for violations of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Violation of this chapter is a misdemeanor. Each separate day on which
a continuing violation occurs is a separate violation. Administrative penalty
provisions of title 1, chapter 4, article B of this Code also apply. (Ord. 151,
9-10-2018)
CHAPTER 3
SHORELAND MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
9-3-1: Statute Authority
9-3-2: Policy
9-3-3: Jurisdiction
9-3-4: Compliance Required
9-3-5: Interpretation And Application
9-3-6: Definitions
9-3-7: Administration And Enforcement
9-3-8: Shoreland Classification System And Land Use Districts
9-3-9: Zoning And Water Supply/Sanitary Provisions
9-3-9-1: Lot Area And Width Standards
9-3-9-2: Placement, Design And Height Of Structures
9-3-9-3: Shoreland Alterations
9-3-9-4: Placement And Design Of Roads, Driveways And Parking Areas
9-3-9-5: Storm Water Management
9-3-9-6: Special Provisions
9-3-9-7: Conditional Uses
9-3-9-8: Water Supply And Sewage Treatment
9-3-10: Nonconformities
9-3-11: Subdivision And Platting Provisions
9-3-12: Planned Unit Developments (PUDs)
9-3-1: STATUTE AUTHORITY:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and policies contained in
Minnesota statutes chapters 103A through 113, Minnesota rules parts 6120.2500
to 6120.3900, and the planning and zoning enabling legislation in Minnesota
statutes chapter 462. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994; amd. 2008 Code)
9-3-2: POLICY:
The uncontrolled use of shorelands of the city affects the public health,
safety and general welfare not only by contributing to pollution of public
waters, but also by impairing the local tax base. Therefore, it is in the best
interests of the public health, safety and welfare to provide for the wise
subdivision, use and development of shorelands of public waters. The
legislature of Minnesota has delegated responsibility to local governments of
the state to regulate the subdivision, use and development of the shorelands of
public waters and thus preserve and enhance the quality of surface waters,
conserve the economic and natural environmental values of shorelands, and
provide for the wise use of waters and related land resources. This
responsibility is hereby recognized by the city. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
9-3-3: JURISDICTION:
The provisions of this chapter shall apply to the shorelands of the public
water bodies as classified in section 9-3-8 of this chapter. Pursuant to
Minnesota rules parts 6120.2500 to 6120.3900, no lake, pond, or flowage less
than ten (10) acres in size in the city or twenty five (25) acres in size in
unincorporated areas need be regulated in this chapter. A body of water created
by a private user where there was no previous shoreland may, at the discretion
of the city council, be exempt from this chapter. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
9-3-4: COMPLIANCE REQUIRED:
The use of any shoreland of public waters; the size and shape of lots; the use,
size, type and location of structures on lots; the installation and maintenance
of water supply and waste treatment systems; the grading and filling of any
shoreland area; the cutting of shoreland vegetation; and the subdivision of
land shall be in full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
9-3-5: INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Minimum Requirements: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall
be liberally construed in favor of the city council and shall not be deemed a
limitation or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
9-3-6: DEFINITIONS:
Unless specifically defined in this section, words or phrases used in this
chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meanings as they have
in common usage and so as to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
For the purpose of this chapter, the words "must" and "shall" are mandatory and
not permissive. All distances, unless otherwise specified, shall be measured
horizontally.
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY: Any building or improvement subordinate to a
principal use which, because of the nature of its use, can reasonably be
located at or greater than normal structure setbacks.
BLUFF: A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff, or embankment having the
following characteristics (an area with an average slope of less than 18
percent over a distance of 50 feet or more shall not be considered part of the
bluff):
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Part or all of the feature is located in a shoreland area;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The slope rises at least twenty five feet (25') above the ordinary high
water level of the water body;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point twenty five
feet (25') or more above the ordinary high water level averages thirty percent
(30%) or greater; and
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â The slope must drain toward the water body.
BLUFF IMPACT ZONE: A bluff and land located within twenty feet (20') from the
top of a bluff.
BOATHOUSE: A structure designed and used solely for the storage of boats or
boating equipment.
BUILDING LINE: A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high water level
at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
COMMERCIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS: Typically, uses that provide transient,
short term lodging spaces, rooms, or parcels, and their operations are
essentially service oriented. For example, hotel/motel accommodations, resorts,
recreational vehicle and camping parks, and other primarily service oriented
activities are commercial planned unit developments.
COMMERCIAL USE: The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental, or trade of products, goods, and services.
COMMISSIONER: The commissioner of the department of natural resources.
CONDITIONAL USE: A land use or development, as defined by ordinance, that would
not be appropriate generally but may be allowed with appropriate restrictions,
as provided by official controls, upon a finding that certain conditions as
detailed in the zoning ordinance exist, the use or development conforms to the
comprehensive land use plan of the city, and the use is compatible with the
existing neighborhood.
DECK: A horizontal, unenclosed platform, with or without attached railings,
seats, trellises, or other features, attached or functionally related to a
principal use or site and at any point extending more than three feet (3')
above ground.
DUPLEX, TRIPLEX, AND QUAD: A dwelling structure on a single lot, having two
(2), three (3), and four (4) units, respectively, being attached by common
walls, and each unit equipped with separate sleeping, cooking, eating, living,
and sanitation facilities.
DWELLING SITE: A designated location for residential use by one or more persons
using temporary or movable shelter, including camping and recreational vehicle
sites.
DWELLING UNIT: Any structure or portion of a structure or other shelter
designed as short or long term living quarters for one or more persons,
including rental or timeshare accommodations such as motel, hotel, and resort
rooms and cabins.
EXTRACTIVE USE: The use of land for surface or subsurface removal of sand,
gravel, rock, industrial minerals, other nonmetallic minerals, and peat not
regulated under Minnesota statutes sections 93.44 to 93.51.
FOREST LAND CONVERSION: The clear cutting of forested lands to prepare for a
new land use other than reestablishment of a subsequent forest stand.
GUEST COTTAGE: A structure used as a dwelling unit that may contain sleeping
spaces and kitchen and bathroom facilities in addition to those provided in the
primary dwelling unit on a lot.
HARDSHIP: The same as that term is defined in Minnesota statutes chapter 462.
HEIGHT OF BUILDING: The vertical distance between the highest adjoining ground
level at the building or ten feet (10') above the lowest ground level,
whichever is lower, and the highest point of a flat roof or average height of
the highest gable of a pitched or hipped roof.
INDUSTRIAL USE: The use of land or buildings for the production, manufacture,
warehousing, storage, or transfer of goods, products, commodities, or other
wholesale items.
INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING: The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row, or block.
LOT: A parcel of land designated by plat, metes and bounds, registered land
survey, auditor's plot, or other accepted means and separated from other
parcels or portions by said description for the purpose of sale, lease, or
separation.
LOT WIDTH: The shortest distance between lot lines measured at the midpoint of
the building line.
NONCONFORMITY: Any legal use, structure or parcel of land already in existence,
recorded, or authorized before the adoption of official controls or amendments
thereto that would not have been permitted to become established under the
terms of the official controls as now written, if the official controls had
been in effect prior to the date it was established, recorded or authorized.
ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL: The boundary of public waters and wetlands, and
shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ordinary high water level is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel. For reservoirs and flowages, the ordinary high water level is the
operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A type of development characterized by a unified site
design for a number of dwelling units or dwelling sites on a parcel, whether
for sale, rent, or lease, and also usually involving clustering of these units
or sites to provide areas of common open space, density increases, and a mix of
structure types and land uses. These developments may be organized and operated
as condominiums, timeshare condominiums, cooperatives, full fee ownership,
commercial enterprises, or any combination of these, or cluster subdivisions of
dwelling units, residential condominiums, townhouses, apartment buildings,
campgrounds, recreational vehicle parks, resorts, hotels, motels, and
conversions of structures and land uses to these uses.
PUBLIC WATERS: Any waters as defined in Minnesota statutes section 103G.005,
subdivision 15.
RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT: A use where the nature of residency is
nontransient and the major or primary focus of the development is not service
oriented. For example, residential apartments, manufactured home parks,
timeshare condominiums, townhouses, cooperatives, and full fee ownership
residences would be considered as residential planned unit developments. To
qualify as a residential planned unit development, a development must contain
at least five (5) dwelling units or sites.
SEMIPUBLIC USE: The use of land by a private, nonprofit organization to provide
a public service that is ordinarily open to some persons outside the regular
constituency of the organization.
SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT: The preservation and management of areas
unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such as
shallow soils over ground water or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive soils,
steep slopes, susceptibility to flooding, or occurrence of flora or fauna in
need of special protection.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage treatment
system, or other facility and an ordinary high water level, sewage treatment
system, top of a bluff, road, highway, property line, or other facility.
SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM: A septic tank and soil absorption system or other
individual or cluster type sewage treatment system as described and regulated
in section 9-3-9-8 of this chapter.
SEWER SYSTEM: Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, and force main, and all
other construction, devices, appliances, or appurtenances used for conducting
sewage or industrial waste or other wastes to a point of ultimate disposal.
SHORE IMPACT ZONE: Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it, at a setback of fifty percent (50%) of
the structure setback.
SHORELAND: Land located within the following distances from public waters: one
thousand feet (1,000') from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond, or
flowage; and three hundred feet (300') from a river or stream, or the landward
extent of a floodplain designated by ordinance on a river or stream, whichever
is greater. The limits of shorelands may be reduced whenever the waters
involved are bounded by topographic divides which extend landward from the
waters for lesser distances and when approved by the commissioner.
SIGNIFICANT HISTORIC SITE: Any archaeological site, standing structure, or
other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the National Register
of Historic Places or is listed in the State Register of Historic Sites, or is
determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of
Minnesota statutes section 307.08. A historic site meets these criteria if it
is presently listed on either register or if it is determined to meet the
qualifications for listing after review by the Minnesota state archaeologist or
the director of the Minnesota Historical Society. All unplatted cemeteries are
automatically considered to be significant historic sites.
STEEP SLOPE: Land where agricultural activity or development is either not
recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site's
soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available county soil surveys
or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Where specific information is not available, steep slopes are
lands having average slopes over twelve percent (12%), as measured over
horizontal distances of fifty feet (50') or more, that are not bluffs.
STRUCTURE: Any building or appurtenance, including decks, except aerial or
underground utility lines, such as sewer, electric, telephone, telegraph and
gas lines, towers, poles, and other supporting facilities.
SUBDIVISION: Land that is divided for the purpose of sale, rent, or lease,
including planned unit developments.
SURFACE WATER ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE: The use of land for commercial purposes,
where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral part of the
normal conductance of business. Marinas, resorts, and restaurants with
transient docking facilities are examples of such use.
TOE OF THE BLUFF: The lower point of a fifty foot (50') segment with an average
slope exceeding eighteen percent (18%).
TOP OF THE BLUFF: The higher point of a fifty foot (50') segment with an
average slope exceeding eighteen percent (18%).
VARIANCE: The same as that term is defined or described in Minnesota statutes
chapter 462.
WATER ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY: A small, aboveground building
or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks, and retaining walls,
which, because of the relationship of its use to a surface water feature,
reasonably needs to be located closer to public waters than the normal
structure setback. Examples of such structures and facilities include
boathouses, gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pump houses, and detached
decks.
WETLAND: A surface water feature classified as a wetland in the United States
"Fish And Wildlife Service Circular No. 39" (1971 edition). (Ord. 106, 12-19-
1994; amd. 2008 Code)
9-3-7: ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â City To Administer And Enforce: The city is responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Building Permit: A permit is required for the construction of buildings
or building additions (and including such related activities as construction of
decks and signs), the installation and/or alteration of sewage treatment
systems, and those grading and filling activities not exempted by section 9-3-
9-3 of this chapter. Application for a permit shall be made to the zoning
administrator on the forms provided. The application shall include the
necessary information so that the zoning administrator can determine the site's
suitability for the intended use and that a compliant sewage treatment system
will be provided. Permits shall stipulate that any identified nonconforming
sewage treatment system, as defined by section 9-3-9-8 of this chapter, shall
be reconstructed or replaced in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Certificate Of Zoning Compliance: The zoning administrator shall issue
a certificate of zoning compliance for each activity requiring a permit as
specified in subsection B of this section. This certificate will specify that
the use of land conforms to the requirements of this chapter. Any use,
arrangement, or construction at variance with that authorized by permit shall
be deemed a violation of this chapter and shall be punishable as provided in
subsection F of this section. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Variances:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Variances may only be granted in accordance with Minnesota statutes
chapter 462. A variance may not circumvent the general purposes and intent of
this chapter. No variance may be granted that would allow any use that is
prohibited in the zoning district in which the subject property is located.
Conditions may be imposed in the granting of a variance to ensure compliance
and to protect adjacent properties and the public interest. In considering a
variance request, the board of appeals and adjustments must also consider
whether the property owner has reasonable use of the land without the variance,
whether the property is used seasonally or year round, whether the variance is
being requested solely on the basis of economic considerations, and the
characteristics of development on adjacent properties. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994;
amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The board of appeals and adjustments shall hear and decide requests
for variances in accordance with the rules that it has adopted for the conduct
of business 1 . When a variance is approved after the department of natural
resources has formally recommended denial in the hearing record, the
notification of the approved variance required in subsection E2 of this section
shall also include the board of appeals and adjustment's summary of the public
record/testimony and the findings of fact and conclusions which supported the
issuance of the variance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â For existing developments, the application for variance must clearly
demonstrate whether a conforming sewage treatment system is present for the
intended use of the property. The variance, if issued, must require
reconstruction of a nonconforming sewage treatment system.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Notifications To Department Of Natural Resources:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Copies of all notices of any public hearings to consider variances,
amendments, or conditional uses under this chapter must be sent to the
commissioner or the commissioner's designated representative and postmarked at
least ten (10) days before the hearings. Notices of hearings to consider
proposed subdivisions/plats must include copies of the subdivision/plat.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A copy of approved amendments and subdivisions/plats, and final
decisions granting variances or conditional uses under this chapter, must be
sent to the commissioner or the commissioner's designated representative and
postmarked within ten (10) days of final action.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Misdemeanor Violation; Penalty: Any violation of the provisions of this
chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including violations
of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants of variances
or conditional uses) shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as
defined by law. Violations of this chapter can occur regardless of whether or
not a permit is required for a regulated activity pursuant to subsection B of
this section. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
Â 
Notes
1 1. See subsection 2-1-6D and title 10, chapter 3 of this code.
9-3-8: SHORELAND CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM AND LAND USE DISTRICTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Shoreland Classification System: The public waters of the city have
been classified below consistent with the criteria found in Minnesota rules
part 6 and the protected waters inventory map for Becker County, Minnesota. The
shoreland area for the water bodies listed in this subsection shall be as
defined in section
9-3-6 of this chapter, definition of "shoreland", and as shown on the official
zoning map.
Â 
Lakes                                   Protected Waters Inventory ID Number
Natural environment      none           Â 
Recreational development Albertson Lake Â 
Â                        Town Lake      Â 
General development      none           Â 
Â 
Â 
Rivers And Streams                   Legal Description
Remote rivers       none             Â 
Forested rivers     none             Â 
Transition rivers   none             Â 
                                     From southern line of section 12 of
Agricultural rivers Otter Tail River Burlington Township to Otter Tail County
                                     line and beyond
Urban rivers        none             Â 
Tributary streams   none             Â Â Â 1
Â 
Note:
1.Â Â Â All protected watercourses in the city shown on the protected waters
inventory map for the county, a copy of which is hereby adopted by reference,
not given a classification as a river shall be considered "tributary".
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Land Use Districts:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Criteria For Designation: The land use districts in subsection B2 of
this section and the delineation of land use district boundaries on the
official zoning map must be consistent with the goals, policies, and objectives
of the comprehensive land use plan (when available) and the following criteria,
considerations, and objectives:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â General considerations and criteria for all land uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Preservation of natural areas;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Present ownership and development of shoreland areas;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Shoreland soil types and their engineering capabilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Topographic characteristics;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Vegetative cover;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â In-water physical characteristics, values, and constraints;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Recreational use of the surface water;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â Road and service center accessibility;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â Socioeconomic development needs and plans as they involve
water and related land resources;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (10)Â Â Â The land requirements of industry which, by its nature,
requires location in shoreland areas; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (11)Â Â Â The necessity to preserve and restore certain areas having
significant historical or ecological value.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Factors and criteria for planned unit developments:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Existing recreational use of the surface waters and likely
increases in use associated with planned unit developments;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Physical and aesthetic impacts of increased density;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Suitability of lands for the planned unit development
approach;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Level of current development in the area; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Amounts and types of ownership of undeveloped lands.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Descriptions Of Districts: The land use districts provided below,
and the allowable land uses therein for the given classifications of water
bodies shall be properly delineated on the official zoning map for the
shorelands of the city. These land use districts are in conformance with the
criteria specified in Minnesota rules part 6120.3200, subpart 3:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Lakes:
Land Use Districts General Development Recreational      Natural Environmental
For Lakes          Lakes               Development Lakes Lakes
                                      General     Recreational Natural
Land Use Districts For Lakes          Development Development  Environmental
                                      Lakes       Lakes        Lakes
Special Protection District Uses
Â Â Â Agricultural cropland and pasturP           P            P
Â Â Â Agricultural feedlots           C           C            C
Â Â Â Extractive use                  C           C            C
Â Â Â Forest management               P           P            P
Â Â Â Mining of metallic minerals and P           P            P
peat
Â Â Â Parks and historic sites        C           C            C
Â Â Â Sensitive resource management   P           P            P
Â Â Â Single residential              C           C            C
Residential District Uses
Â Â Â Duplex, triplex, quad residentiaP           P            C
Â Â Â Extractive use                  C           C            C
Â Â Â Forest management               P           P            P
Â Â Â Mining of metallic minerals and P           P            P
peat
Â Â Â Parks and historic sites        C           C            C
Â Â Â Semipublic                      C           C            C
Â Â Â Single residential              P           P            P
High Density Residential District Uses
Â Â Â Duplex, triplex, quad residentiaP           P            P
Â Â Â Forest management               P           P            P
Â Â Â Parks and historic sites        C           C            C
Â Â Â Residential planned unit        C           C            C
developments
Â Â Â Semipublic                      C           C            C
Â Â Â Single residential              P           P            P
Â Â Â Surface water oriented commerciaC1          C            C
Water Oriented Commercial District Uses
Â Â Â Commercial planned unit         C           C            C
development2
Â Â Â Forest management               P           P            P
Â Â Â Parks and historic sites        C           C            C
Â Â Â Public, semipublic              C           C            C
Â Â Â Surface water oriented commerciaP           P            C
General Use District Uses
Â Â Â Commercial                      P           P            C
Â Â Â Commercial planned unit         C           C            C
development2
Â Â Â Extractive use                  C           C            C
Â Â Â Forest management               P           P            P
Â Â Â Industrial                      C           C            N
Â Â Â Mining of metallic minerals and P           P            P
peat
Â Â Â Parks and historic sites        C           C            C
Â Â Â Public, semipublic              P           P            C
Â 
Notes:
1.Â Â Â As accessory to a residential planned unit development.
2.Â Â Â Limited expansion of a commercial planned unit development involving up to
6 additional dwelling units or sites may be allowed as a permitted use,
provided the provisions of section 9-3-12 of this chapter are satisfied.
Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Rivers And Streams:
Land Use Districts For Remote Forested Transition Agricultural Urban Tributary
Rivers And Streams
Land Use Districts For Rivers And     Remote Forested Transition Agricultural Urban Tributary
Streams
Special Protection District Uses
Â Â Â Agricultural cropland and pasturP      P        P          P            P     P
Â Â Â Agricultural feedlots           C      C        C          C            C     C
Â Â Â Extractive use                  C      C        C          C            C     C
Â Â Â Forest management               P      P        P          P            P     P
Â Â Â Mining of metallic minerals and P      P        P          P            P     P
peat
Â Â Â Parks and historic sites        C      C        C          C            C     C
Â Â Â Sensitive resource management   P      P        P          P            P     P
Â Â Â Single residential              C      C        C          C            C     C
Residential District Uses
Â Â Â Duplex, triplex, quad residentiaC      C        C          C            P     C
Â Â Â Extractive use                  C      C        C          C            C     C
Â Â Â Forest management               P      P        P          P            P     P
Â Â Â Mining of metallic minerals and P      P        P          P            P     P
peat
Â Â Â Parks and historic sites        C      C        C          C            C     P
Â Â Â Semipublic                      C      C        C          C            C     P
Â Â Â Single residential              P      P        P          P            P     P
High Density Residential Uses
Â Â Â Duplex, triplex, quad residentiaP      P        P          P            P     P
Â Â Â Forest management               P      P        P          P            P     P
Â Â Â Parks and historic sites        C      C        C          C            C     C
Â Â Â Residential planned unit        C      C        C          C            C     C
developments
Â Â Â Semipublic                      C      C        C          C            C     C
Â Â Â Single residential              P      P        P          P            P     P
Â Â Â Surface water oriented commerciaC1     C        C          C            C     C
Water Oriented Commercial Uses
Â Â Â Commercial planned unit         C      C        C          C            C     C
development1
Â Â Â Forest management               P      P        P          P            P     P
Â Â Â Parks and historic sites        C      C        C          C            C     C
Â Â Â Public, semipublic              C      C        C          P            P     P
Â Â Â Surface water oriented commerciaC      C        C          C            C     C
General Use District Uses
Â Â Â Commercial                      C      C        C          C            P     C
Â Â Â Commercial planned unit         C      C        C          C            C     C
development2
Â Â Â Extractive use                  C      C        C          C            C     C
Â Â Â Forest management               P      P        P          P            P     P
Â Â Â Industrial                      N      C        N          N            C     C
Â Â Â Mining of metallic minerals and P      P        P          P            P     P
peat
Â Â Â Parks and historic sites        C      C        C          C            C     C
Â Â Â Public, semipublic              C      C        C          C            P     C
Â 
Notes:
1.Â Â Â As accessory to a residential planned unit development.
2.Â Â Â Limited expansion of a commercial planned unit development involving up to
6 additional dwelling units or sites may be allowed as a permitted use,
provided the provisions of section
9-3-12 of this chapter are satisfied.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Use And Upgrading Of Inconsistent Districts:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The land use districts adopted in title 10 of this code, as they
apply to shoreland areas, and their delineated boundaries on the official
zoning map, are not consistent with the land use district designation criteria
specified in subsection B2 of this section. These inconsistent land use
district designations may continue until revisions are proposed to change
either the land use district designation within an existing land use district
boundary shown on the official zoning map or to modify the boundary of an
existing land use district shown on the official zoning map.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â When a revision is proposed to an inconsistent land use district
provision, the following additional criteria and procedures shall apply:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Lakes: When a revision to a land use district designation on
a lake is considered, the land use district boundaries and use provisions
therein for all the shoreland areas within the jurisdiction of this chapter on
said lake must be revised to make them substantially compatible with the
framework in subsections B1 and B2 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Rivers And Streams: When a revision to a land use district
designation on a river or stream is proposed, the land use district boundaries
and the use provisions therein for all shoreland on both sides of the river or
stream within the same classification within the jurisdiction of this chapter
must be revised to make them substantially compatible with the framework in
subsections B1 and B2 of this section. If the same river classification is
contiguous for more than a five (5) mile segment, only the shoreland for a
distance of two and one-half (2.5) miles upstream and downstream, or to the
class boundary if closer, need be evaluated and revised.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â When an interpretation question arises about whether a specific
land use fits within a given "use" category, the interpretation shall be made
by the board of appeals and adjustments. When a question arises as to whether a
land use district's boundaries are properly delineated on the official zoning
map, this decision shall be made by the city council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â When a revision is proposed to an inconsistent land use district
provision by an individual party or landowner, this individual party or
landowner will only be responsible to provide the supporting and/or
substantiating information for the specific parcel in question. The city
council will direct the zoning administrator to provide such additional
information for this water body as is necessary to satisfy subsections B3a and
B3b of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The city council must make a detailed finding of fact and
conclusion when taking final action that this revision, and the upgrading of
any inconsistent land use district designations on said water body, are
consistent with the enumerated criteria and use provisions of this subsection.
(Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
9-3-9:Â Â Â ZONING AND WATER SUPPLY/SANITARY PROVISIONS:
9-3-9-1: LOT AREA AND WIDTH STANDARDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Lakes: The lot area (in square feet) and lot width standards (in feet)
for single, duplex, triplex and quad residential lots created after the
effective date hereof for the lake and river/stream classifications are the
following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Unsewered Lakes:
 Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
 Area Width    Area Width
        Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
        Area    Width Area    Width
Natural Environment
Single  80,000  200   80,000  200
Duplex  120,000 300   160,000 400
Triplex 160,000 400   240,000 600
Quad    200,000 500   320,000 800
Recreational Development
Single  40,000  150   40,000  150
Duplex  80,000  225   80,000  265
Triplex 120,000 300   120,000 375
Quad    160,000 375   160,000 490
General Development
Single  20,000  100   40,000  150
Duplex  40,000  180   80,000  265
Triplex 60,000  260   120,000 375
Quad    80,000  340   160,000 490
Â 
2. Sewered Lakes:
 Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
 Area Width    Area Width
        Riparian Lots Nonriparian Lots
        Area    Width Area   Width
Natural Environment
Single  40,000  125   20,000 125
Duplex  70,000  225   35,000 220
Triplex 100,000 325   52,000 315
Quad    120,000 425   65,000 410
Recreational Development
Single  20,000  75    15,000 75
Duplex  35,000  135   26,000 135
Triplex 50,000  195   38,000 190
Quad    65,000  255   49,000 245
General Development
Single  15,000  75    10,000 75
Duplex  26,000  135   17,500 135
Triplex 38,000  195   25,000 190
Quad    49,000  255   32,500 245
Â 
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Rivers And Streams: There are no minimum lot size requirements for
rivers and streams. The lot width standards for single, duplex, triplex and
quad residential developments for the six river/stream classifications are:
(Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
Â 
        Â      Â        Â          Â            Urban And Urban And Tributary
        Remote Forested Transition Agricultural Tributary Sewer
                                                No Sewer
Single  300    200      250        150          100       75
Duplex  450    300      375        225          150       115
Triplex 600    400      500        300          200       150
Quad    750    500      625        375          250       190
Â 
(Ord. 106, 12-19-1994; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Additional Special Provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Residential subdivisions with dwelling unit densities exceeding
those in the tables in subsections A and B of this section can only be allowed
if designed and approved as residential planned unit developments under section
9-3-12 of this chapter. Only land above the ordinary high water level of public
waters can be used to meet lot area standards, and lot width standards must be
met at both the ordinary high water level and at the building line. The sewer
lot area dimensions in subsection A2 of this section can only be used if
publicly owned sewer system service is available to the property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Subdivision of duplexes, triplexes, and quads on natural environment
lakes must also meet the following standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Each building must be set back at least two hundred feet (200')
from the ordinary high water level;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Each building must have common sewage treatment and water systems
in one location and serve all dwelling units in the building;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Watercraft docking facilities for each lot must be centralized in
one location and serve all dwelling units in the building; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â No more than twenty five percent (25%) of a lake's shoreline can
be in duplex, triplex, or quad developments.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â One guest cottage may be allowed on lots meeting or exceeding the
duplex lot area and width dimensions presented in subsections A and B of this
section, provided the following standards are met:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â For lots exceeding the minimum lot dimensions of duplex lots, the
guest cottage must be located within the smallest duplex sized lot that could
be created including the principal dwelling unit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A guest cottage must not cover more than seven hundred (700)
square feet of land surface and must not exceed fifteen feet (15') in height;
and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â A guest cottage must be located or designed to reduce its
visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation,
topography, increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Lots intended as controlled accesses to public waters or as
recreation areas for use by owners of nonriparian lots within subdivisions are
permissible and must meet or exceed the following standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â They must meet the width and size requirements for residential
lots, and be suitable for the intended uses of controlled access lots;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â If docking, mooring, or over water storage of more than six (6)
watercraft is to be allowed at a controlled access lot, then the width of the
lot (keeping the same lot depth) must be increased by the percent of the
requirements for riparian residential lots for each watercraft beyond six (6),
consistent with the following table:
Â 
Controlled Access Lot Frontage Requirements
Ratio Of Lake Size To Shore Length  Required Increase In Frontage (Percent)
(Acres/Mile)
Â Â Â Less than 100                 25
Â Â Â 100 - 200                     20
Â Â Â 201 - 300                     15
Â Â Â 301 - 400                     10
Â Â Â Greater than 400              5
Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â They must be jointly owned by all purchasers of lots in the
subdivision or by all purchasers of nonriparian lots in the subdivision who are
provided riparian access rights on the access lot; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Covenants or other equally effective legal instruments must be
developed that specify which lot owners have authority to use the access lot
and what activities are allowed. The activities may include watercraft
launching, loading, storage, beaching, mooring, or docking. They must also
include other outdoor recreational activities that do not significantly
conflict with general public use of the public water or the enjoyment of normal
property rights by adjacent property owners. Examples of the nonsignificant
conflict activities include swimming, sunbathing, or picnicking. The covenants
must limit the total number of vehicles allowed to be parked and the total
number of watercraft allowed to be continuously moored, docked, or stored over
water, and must require centralization of all common facilities and activities
in the most suitable locations on the lot to minimize topographic and
vegetation alterations. They must also require all parking areas, storage
buildings, and other facilities to be screened by vegetation or topography as
much as practical from view from the public water, assuming summer, leaf-on
conditions. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
9-3-9-2: PLACEMENT, DESIGN AND HEIGHT OF STRUCTURES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Placement Of Structures On Lots: When more than one setback applies to
a site, structures and facilities must be located to meet all setbacks. Where
structures exist on the adjoining lots on both sides of a proposed building
site, structure setbacks may be altered without a variance to conform to the
adjoining setbacks from the ordinary high water level, provided the proposed
building site is not located in a shore impact zone or in a bluff impact zone.
Structures shall be located as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Structure And On Site Sewage System Setbacks (In Feet) From Ordinary
High Water Level:
                         Setbacks 1
Classes Of Public Waters Structures        Sewage Treatment System
                         Unsewered Sewered
                                  Setbacks 1
Classes Of Public Waters          Structures          Sewage Treatment System
                                  Unsewered Sewered
Lakes
Natural environment               Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 150
Recreational development          Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 75
General development               Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 50
Rivers
Remote                            Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 150
Forested and transition           Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 100
Agriculture, urban, and tributary Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 75
Â 
Note:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â One water oriented accessory structure designed in accordance with
subsection B of this section may be set back a minimum distance of 10 feet from
the ordinary high water level.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Additional Structure Setbacks: The following additional structure
setbacks apply, regardless of the classification of the water body:
Â 
Setback From:                                                    Setback
                                                                 (In Feet)
Top of bluff                                                     30
Unplatted cemetery                                               50
Right of way line of federal, state, or county highway           50
Right of way line of city road, public street, or other roads or 20
streets not classified
Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Bluff Impact Zones: Structures and accessory facilities, except
stairways and landings, must not be placed within bluff impact zones.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Uses Without Water Oriented Needs: Commercial, industrial, public
and semipublic uses without water oriented needs must be located on lots or
parcels without public waters frontage, or if located on lots or parcels with
public waters frontage, must either be set back double the normal ordinary high
water level setback or be substantially screened from view from the water by
vegetation or topography, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Design Criteria:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â High Water Elevations: Structures must be placed in accordance with
any floodplain regulations applicable to the site. Where these controls do not
exist, the elevation to which the lowest floor, including basement, is placed
or floodproofed must be determined as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â For lakes, by placing the lowest floor at a level at least three
feet (3') above the highest known water level, or three feet (3') above the
ordinary high water level, whichever is higher; (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â For rivers and streams, by placing the lowest floor at least
three feet (3') above the flood of record, if data are available. If data are
not available, by placing the lowest floor at least three feet (3') above the
ordinary high water level, or by conducting a technical evaluation to determine
effects of proposed construction upon flood stages and flood flows and to
establish a flood protection elevation. Under all three (3) approaches,
technical evaluations must be done by a qualified engineer or hydrologist
consistent with Minnesota rules parts 6120.5000 to 6120.6200 governing the
management of floodplain areas. If more than one approach is used, the highest
flood protection elevation determined must be used for placing structures and
other facilities; and (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Water oriented accessory structures may have the lowest floor
placed lower than the elevation determined in this subsection B1 if the
structure is constructed of flood resistant materials to the elevation,
electrical and mechanical equipment is placed above the elevation and, if long
duration flooding is anticipated, the structure is built to withstand ice
action and wind driven waves and debris.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Water Oriented Accessory Structures: Each lot may have one water
oriented accessory structure not meeting the normal structure setback in
subsection A of this section if this water oriented accessory structure
complies with the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The structure or facility must not exceed ten feet (10') in
height, exclusive of safety rails, and cannot occupy an area greater than two
hundred fifty (250) square feet. Detached decks must not exceed eight feet (8')
above grade at any point;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The setback of the structure or facility from the ordinary high
water level must be at least ten feet (10');
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The structure or facility must be treated to reduce visibility,
as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands, by vegetation,
topography, increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but must not be
enclosed or used as a storage area;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The structure or facility must not be designed or used for human
habitation and must not contain water supply or sewage treatment facilities;
and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â As an alternative for general development and recreational
development water bodies, water oriented accessory structures used solely for
watercraft storage, and including storage of related boating and water oriented
sporting equipment, may occupy an area up to four hundred (400) square feet,
provided the maximum width of the structure is twenty feet (20') as measured
parallel to the configuration of the shoreline.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Stairways, Lifts, And Landings: Stairways and lifts are the
preferred alternative to major topographic alterations for achieving access up
and down bluffs and steep slopes to shore areas. Stairways and lifts must meet
the following design requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Stairways and lifts must not exceed four feet (4') in width on
residential lots. Wider stairways may be used for commercial properties, public
open space recreational properties, and planned unit developments;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area. Landings larger than thirty two
(32) square feet may be used for commercial properties, public open space
recreational properties, and planned unit developments;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, lifts, or
landings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Stairways, lifts, and landings may be either constructed above
the ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground, provided they are
designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil erosion;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Stairways, lifts, and landings must be located in the most
visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Facilities such as ramps, lifts, or mobility paths for physically
handicapped persons are also allowed for achieving access to shore areas;
provided, that the dimensional and performance standards of subsections B3a to
B3e of this section are complied with in addition to the requirements of
Minnesota rules chapter 1340.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Significant Historic Sites: No structure may be placed on a
significant historic site in a manner that affects the values of the site
unless adequate information about the site has been removed and documented in a
public repository.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Steep Slopes: The zoning administrator must evaluate possible soil
erosion impacts and development visibility from public waters before issuing a
permit for construction of sewage treatment systems, roads, driveways,
structures, or other improvements on steep slopes. When determined necessary,
conditions must be attached to issued permits to prevent erosion and to
preserve existing vegetation screening of structures, vehicles, and other
facilities as viewed from the surface of public waters, assuming summer, leaf-
on vegetation.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Height Of Structures: All structures in city residential districts,
except churches and nonresidential agricultural structures, must not exceed
twenty five feet (25') in height. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
9-3-9-3: SHORELAND ALTERATIONS:
Alterations of vegetation and topography will be regulated to prevent erosion
into public waters, fix nutrients, preserve shoreland aesthetics, preserve
historic values, prevent bank slumping, and protect fish and wildlife habitat.
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Vegetation Alterations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Vegetation alteration necessary for the construction of structures
and sewage treatment systems and the construction of roads and parking areas
regulated by section 9-3-9-4 of this section 9-3-9 are exempt from the
vegetation alteration standards that follow.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Removal or alteration of vegetation, except for agricultural and
forest management uses as regulated in subsections 9-4-9-6B and C,
respectfully, of this section
9-3-9, is allowed subject to the following standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and bluff impact
zones and on steep slopes is not allowed. Intensive vegetation clearing for
forest land conversion to another use outside of these areas is allowable as a
conditional use if an erosion control and sedimentation plan is developed and
approved by the soil and water conservation district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â In shore and bluff impact zones and on steep slopes, limited
clearing of trees and shrubs and cutting, pruning, and trimming of trees is
allowed to provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling site and to
accommodate the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access
paths, livestock watering areas, beach and watercraft access areas, and
permitted water oriented accessory structures or facilities; provided, that:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The screening of structures, vehicles, or other facilities as
viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not
substantially reduced;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Along rivers, existing shading of water surfaces is
preserved; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The above provisions are not applicable to the removal of
trees, limbs, or branches that are dead, diseased, or pose safety hazards.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Topographic Alterations/Grading And Filling:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Work Covered By Construction Permit: Grading and filling and
excavations necessary for the construction of structures, sewage treatment
systems, and driveways under validly issued construction permits for these
facilities do not require the issuance of a separate grading and filling
permit. However, the grading and filling standards in this subsection must be
incorporated into the issuance of permits for construction of structures,
sewage treatment systems, and driveways.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Public Roads And Parking Areas: Public roads and parking areas are
regulated by section 9-3-9-4 of this section
9-3-9.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Permit Required: Notwithstanding subsections B1 and B2 of this
section, a grading and filling permit will be required for:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The movement of more than ten (10) cubic yards of material on
steep slopes or within shore or bluff impact zones; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The movement of more than fifty (50) cubic yards of material
outside of steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Considerations And Conditions: The following considerations and
conditions must be adhered to during the issuance of construction permits,
grading and filling permits, conditional use permits, variances and subdivision
approvals:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Grading or filling in any type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 wetland
must be evaluated to determine how extensively the proposed activity would
affect the following functional qualities of the wetland. This evaluation must
also include a determination of whether the wetland alteration being proposed
requires permits, reviews, or approvals by other local, state, or federal
agencies such as a watershed district, the Minnesota department of natural
resources, or the United States army corps of engineers. The applicant will be
so advised of the following functional qualities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Storage of surface runoff to prevent or reduce flood damage;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Fish and wildlife habitat;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Recreational use;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Shoreline or bank stabilization; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Noteworthiness, including special qualities such as historic
significance, critical habitat for endangered plants and animals, or others;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that
ensures only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest
time possible;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary, for
temporary bare soil coverage, and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before
they reach any surface water feature must be used;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil
and water conservation districts and the United States soil conservation
service;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes must be
reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and must not
create finished slopes of thirty percent (30%) or greater;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff impact
zones; (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public
waters must first be authorized by the commissioner under Minnesota statutes
section 103G.405; (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994; amd. 2008 Code)
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated grading of
the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the finished
slope does not exceed three feet (3') horizontal to one foot (1') vertical, the
landward extent of the riprap is within ten feet (10') of the ordinary high
water level, and the height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level
does not exceed three feet (3').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Connections To Public Waters: Excavations where the intended purpose
is connection to a public water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons, and
harbors, must be controlled by local shoreland controls. Permission for
excavations may be given only after the commissioner has approved the proposed
connection to public waters. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
9-3-9-4: PLACEMENT AND DESIGN OF ROADS, DRIVEWAYS AND PARKING AREAS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Public and private roads and parking areas must be designed to take
advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve maximum screening
from view from public waters. Documentation must be provided by a qualified
individual that all roads and parking areas are designed and constructed to
minimize and control erosion to public waters consistent with the field office
technical guides of the local soil and water conservation district, or other
applicable technical materials.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Roads, driveways, and parking areas must meet structure setbacks and
must not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones, when other reasonable
and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist, they may
be placed within these areas and must be designed to minimize adverse impacts.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Public and private watercraft access ramps, approach roads, and access
related parking areas may be placed within shore impact zones, provided the
vegetative screening and erosion control conditions of this section are met.
For private facilities, the grading and filling provisions of subsection 9-3-9-
3B of this section 9-3-9 must be met. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
9-3-9-5: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT:
The following general and specific storm water standards shall apply:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General Standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â When possible, existing natural drainageways, wetlands, and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter, and retain storm
water runoff before discharge to public waters.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, and erosion
potential, and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be
stabilized and protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to
retain sediment on the site.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â When development density, topographic features, and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle storm water
runoff using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed
facilities such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes,
waterways, and ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using
surface drainage, vegetation, and infiltration rather than buried pipes and
manmade materials and facilities.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Specific Standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Impervious surface coverage of lots must not exceed twenty five
percent (25%) of the lot area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â When constructed facilities are used for storm water management,
documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that they are designed
and installed consistent with the field office technical guide of the local
soil and water conservation district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â New constructed storm water outfalls to public waters must provide
for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface debris
before discharge. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
9-3-9-6: SPECIAL PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Standards For Commercial, Industrial, Public, And Semipublic Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Surface water oriented commercial uses and industrial, public, or
semipublic uses with similar needs to have access to and use of public waters
may be located on parcels or lots with frontage on public waters. Those uses
with water oriented needs must meet the following standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits, setbacks, and
other zoning standards in this chapter, the uses must be designed to
incorporate topographic and vegetative screening of parking areas and
structures;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Uses that require short term watercraft mooring for patrons must
centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions of navigation
and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use signs
and lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject to the
following general standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs may
be placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety
messages may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or under a
permit issued by the county sheriff;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore impact
zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to convey
needed information. They must only convey the location and name of the
establishment and the general types of goods or services available. The signs
must not contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices,
must not be located higher than ten feet (10') above the ground, and must not
exceed thirty two (32) square feet in size. If illuminated by artificial
lights, the lights must be shielded or directed to prevent illumination out
across public waters; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Other outside lighting may be located within the shore impact
zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate potential
safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent direct
illumination out across public waters. This does not preclude use of
navigational lights.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Uses without water oriented needs must be located on lots or parcels
without public waters frontage or, if located on lots or parcels with public
waters frontage, must either be set back double the normal ordinary high water
level setback or be substantially screened from view from the water by
vegetation or topography, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Agriculture Use Standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General cultivation farming, grazing, nurseries, horticulture, truck
farming, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting are permitted uses if steep
slopes and shore and bluff impact zones are maintained in permanent vegetation
or operated under an approved conservation plan (resource management systems)
consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil and water
conservation district or the United States soil conservation service, as
provided by a qualified individual or agency. The shore impact zone for parcels
with permitted agricultural land uses is equal to a line parallel to and fifty
feet (50') from the ordinary high water level.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Animal feedlots must meet the following standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â New feedlots must not be located in the shoreland of watercourses
or in bluff impact zones and must meet a minimum setback of three hundred feet
(300') from the ordinary high water level of all public waters basins; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Modifications or expansions to existing feedlots that are located
within three hundred feet (300') of the ordinary high water level or within a
bluff impact zone are allowed if they do not further encroach into the existing
ordinary high water level setback or encroach on bluff impact zones.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Forest Management Standards: The harvesting of timber and associated
reforestation must be conducted consistent with the provisions of the
"Minnesota Nonpoint Source Pollution Assessment-Forestry" and the provisions of
"Water Quality In Forest Management - Best Management Practices In Minnesota".
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Extractive Use Standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Site Development And Restoration Plan: An extractive use site
development and restoration plan must be developed, approved, and followed over
the course of operation of the site. The plan must address dust, noise,
possible pollutant discharges, hours and duration of operation, and anticipated
vegetation and topographic alterations. It must also identify actions to be
taken during operation to mitigate adverse environmental impacts, particularly
erosion, and must clearly explain how the site will be rehabilitated after
extractive activities end.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Setbacks For Processing Machinery: Processing machinery must be
located consistent with setback standards for structures from ordinary high
water levels of public waters and from bluffs.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Mining Of Metallic Minerals And Peat: Mining of metallic minerals and
peat, as defined in Minnesota statutes sections 93.44 to 93.51, shall be a
permitted use, provided the provisions of Minnesota statutes sections 93.44 to
93.51 are satisfied. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
9-3-9-7: CONDITIONAL USES:
Conditional uses allowable within shoreland areas shall be subject to the
review and approval procedures, and criteria and conditions for review of
conditional uses established communitywide. The following additional evaluation
criteria and conditions apply within shoreland areas:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Evaluation Criteria: A thorough evaluation of the water body and the
topographic, vegetation, and soils conditions on the site must be made to
ensure:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of public
waters, both during and after construction;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed from
public waters is limited;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The site is adequate for water supply and on site sewage treatment;
and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The types, uses, and numbers of watercraft that the project will
generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate these watercraft.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Conditions Attached To Conditional Use Permits: The city council, upon
consideration of the criteria listed in subsection A of this section and the
purposes of this chapter, shall attach such conditions to the issuance of the
conditional use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this
chapter. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Increased setbacks from the ordinary high water level;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Limitations on the natural vegetation to be removed or the
requirement that additional vegetation be planted; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Special provisions for the location, design, and use of structures,
sewage treatment systems, watercraft launching and docking areas, and vehicle
parking areas. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
9-3-9-8: WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE TREATMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Water Supply: Any public or private supply of water for domestic
purposes must meet or exceed standards for water quality of the Minnesota
department of health and the Minnesota pollution control agency.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Sewage Treatment: Any premises used for human occupancy must be
provided with an adequate method of sewage treatment, as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Publicly owned sewer systems must be used where available.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â All private sewage treatment systems must meet or exceed the
Minnesota pollution control agency's standards for individual sewage treatment
systems contained in the document titled "Individual Sewage Treatment Systems
Standards, Chapter 7080", a copy of which is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â On site sewage treatment systems must be set back from the ordinary
high water level in accordance with the setbacks contained in subsection
9-3-9-2A of this section
9-3-9.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â All proposed sites for individual sewage treatment systems shall be
evaluated in accordance with the criteria in this subsection B4. If the
determination of a site's suitability cannot be made with publicly available,
existing information, it shall then be the responsibility of the applicant to
provide sufficient soil borings and percolation tests from on site field
investigations. Evaluation criteria is as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Depth to the highest known or calculated ground water table or
bedrock.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Soil conditions, properties, and permeability.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Slope.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The existence of lowlands, local surface depressions, and rock
outcrops.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Nonconforming sewage treatment systems shall be regulated and
upgraded in accordance with subsection 9-3-10C of this chapter. (Ord. 106, 12-
19-1994)
9-3-10: NONCONFORMITIES:
All legally established nonconformities as of the effective date hereof may
continue, but they will be managed according to applicable state statutes and
other regulations of the city for the subjects of alterations and additions,
repair after damage, discontinuance of use, and intensification of use; except,
that the following standards will also apply in shoreland areas:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Construction On Nonconforming Lots Of Record:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Lots of record in the office of the county recorder on the effective
date hereof that do not meet the requirements of section 9-3-9-1 of this
chapter may be allowed as building sites without variances from lot size
requirements, provided the use is permitted in the zoning district, the lot has
been in separate ownership from abutting lands at all times since it became
substandard, was created compliant with official controls in effect at the
time, and sewage treatment and setback requirements of this chapter are met.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A variance from setback requirements must be obtained before any
use, sewage treatment system, or building permit is issued for a lot. In
evaluating the variance, the board of appeals and adjustments shall consider
sewage treatment and water supply capabilities or constraints of the lot and
shall deny the variance if adequate facilities cannot be provided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â If, in a group of two (2) or more contiguous lots under the same
ownership, any individual lot does not meet the requirements of section 9-3-9-
1 of this chapter, the lot must not be considered as a separate parcel of land
for the purposes of sale or development. The lot must be combined with the one
or more contiguous lots so they equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting
the requirements of section 9-3-9-1 of this chapter as much as possible.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Additions/Expansions To Nonconforming Structures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â All additions or expansions to the outside dimensions of an existing
nonconforming structure must meet the setback, height, and other requirements
of section 9-3-9 of this chapter. Any deviation from these requirements must be
authorized by a variance pursuant to subsection 9-3-7D of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Deck additions may be allowed without a variance to a structure not
meeting the required setback from the ordinary high water level if all of the
following criteria and standards are met:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The structure existed on the date the structure setbacks were
established;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A thorough evaluation of the property and structure reveals no
reasonable location for a deck meeting or exceeding the existing ordinary high
water level setback of the structure;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The deck encroachment toward the ordinary high water level does
not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the existing setback of the structure from
the ordinary high water level or does not encroach closer than thirty feet
(30'), whichever is more restrictive; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The deck is constructed primarily of wood and is not roofed or
screened.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Nonconforming Sewage Treatment Systems:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A sewage treatment system not meeting the requirements of section
9-3-9-8 of this chapter must be upgraded, at a minimum, at any time a permit or
variance of any type is required for any improvement on, or use of, the
property. For the purposes of this provision, a sewage treatment system shall
not be considered nonconforming if the only deficiency is the sewage treatment
system's improper setback from the ordinary high water level. (Ord. 106, 12-19-
1994)
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The city council has, by formal resolution, notified the
commissioner of its program to identify nonconforming sewage treatment systems.
The city will require upgrading or replacement of any nonconforming system
identified by this program within a reasonable period of time which will not
exceed two (2) years. Sewage systems installed according to this chapter as
adopted under Minnesota statutes section 103G.505, in effect at the time of
installation, may be considered as conforming unless they are determined to be
failing; except, that systems using cesspools, leaching pits, seepage pits, or
other deep disposal methods, or systems with less soil treatment area
separation above ground water than required by the Minnesota pollution control
agency's chapter 7080 for design of on site sewage treatment systems, shall be
considered nonconforming. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994; amd. 2008 Code)
9-3-11: SUBDIVISION AND PLATTING PROVISIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Land Suitability: Each lot created through subdivision, including
planned unit developments authorized under section 9-3-12 of this chapter, must
be suitable in its natural state for the proposed use with minimal alteration.
Suitability analysis by the city shall consider susceptibility to flooding,
existence of wetlands, soil and rock formations with severe limitations for
development, severe erosion potential, steep topography, inadequate water
supply or sewage treatment capabilities, near shore aquatic conditions
unsuitable for water based recreation, important fish and wildlife habitat,
presence of significant historic sites, or any other feature of the natural
land likely to be harmful to the health, safety, or welfare of future residents
of the proposed subdivision or of the community.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Consistency With Other Controls: Subdivisions must conform to all
official controls of the city. A subdivision will not be approved where a later
variance from one or more standards in official controls would be needed to use
the lots for their intended purpose. In areas not served by publicly owned
sewer and water systems, a subdivision will not be approved unless domestic
water supply is available and a sewage treatment system consistent with
sections 9-3-9-2 and 9-3-9-8 of this chapter can be provided for every lot.
Each lot shall meet the minimum lot size and dimensional requirements of
section 9-3-9-1 of this chapter, including at least a minimum contiguous lawn
area that is free of limiting factors sufficient for the construction of two
(2) standard soil treatment systems. Lots that would require use of holding
tanks must not be approved. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Information Requirements: Sufficient information must be submitted by
the applicant for the city to make a determination of land suitability. The
information shall include at least the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The topographic contours at ten foot (10') intervals or less from
United States geological survey maps or more accurate sources, showing limiting
site characteristics;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Adequate soils information to determine suitability for building and
on site sewage treatment capabilities for every lot from the most current
existing sources or from field investigations such as soil borings, percolation
tests, or other methods;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Information regarding adequacy of domestic water supply; extent of
anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations; near shore aquatic
conditions, including depths, types of bottom sediments, and aquatic
vegetation; and proposed methods for controlling storm water runoff and
erosion, both during and after construction activities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Location of 100-year floodplain areas and floodway districts from
existing adopted maps or data; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â A line or contour representing the ordinary high water level, the
"toe" and the "top" of bluffs, and the minimum building setback distances from
the top of the bluff and the lake or stream. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994; amd. 2008
Code)
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Dedications: When a land or easement dedication is a condition of
subdivision approval, the approval must provide easements over natural drainage
or ponding areas for management of storm water and significant wetlands.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Platting: All subdivisions that create five (5) or more lots or parcels
that are two and one-half (21/2) acres or less in size shall be processed as a
plat in accordance with Minnesota statutes chapter 505. No permit for
construction of buildings or sewage treatment systems shall be issued for lots
created after these official controls were enacted unless the lot was approved
as part of a formal subdivision.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Controlled Access Or Recreational Lots: Lots intended as controlled
accesses to public waters or for recreational use areas for use by nonriparian
lots within a subdivision must meet or exceed the sizing criteria in subsection
9-3-9-1C of this chapter. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
9-3-12: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS (PUDs):
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Types Of PUDs Permissible: Planned unit developments (PUDs) are allowed
for new projects on undeveloped land, redevelopment of previously built sites,
or conversions of existing buildings and land. The land use districts in which
they are an allowable use are identified in the land use district descriptions
in subsection 9-3-8B of this chapter and the official zoning map.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Processing PUDs: Planned unit developments must be processed as a
conditional use; except, that an expansion to an existing commercial PUD
involving six (6) or less new dwelling units or sites since the effective date
hereof is permissible as a permitted use, provided the total project density
does not exceed the allowable densities calculated in the density evaluation
procedures in subsection E of this section. Approval cannot occur until the
environmental review process (EAW/EIS) is complete.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Application For PUD: The applicant for a PUD must submit the following
documents prior to final action being taken on the application request:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A site plan and/or plat for the project showing locations of
property boundaries, surface water features, existing and proposed structures
and other facilities, land alterations, sewage treatment and water supply
systems (where public systems will not be provided), and topographic contours
at ten foot (10') intervals or less. When a PUD is a combined commercial and
residential development, the site plan and/or plat must indicate and
distinguish which buildings and portions of the project are residential,
commercial, or a combination of the two (2).
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â A property owners' association agreement (for residential PUDs) with
mandatory membership, and all in accordance with the requirements of subsection
F of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent easements or other
instruments that: a) properly address future vegetative and topographic
alterations, construction of additional buildings, beaching of watercraft, and
construction of commercial buildings in residential PUDs; and b) ensure the
long term preservation and maintenance of open space in accordance with the
criteria and analyses specified in subsection F of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â When necessary, a master plan/drawing describing the project and the
floor plan for all commercial structures to be occupied.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Those additional documents as requested by the city council and/or
the zoning administrator that are necessary to explain how the PUD will be
designed and will function.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Site Suitable Area Evaluation: Proposed new or expansions to existing
planned unit developments must be evaluated using the following procedures and
standards to determine the suitable area for the dwelling unit/dwelling site
density evaluation in subsection E of this section:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The project parcel must be divided into tiers by locating one or
more lines approximately parallel to a line that identifies the ordinary high
water level at the following intervals, proceeding landward:
Â 
Shoreland Tier Dimensions
                                       Unsewered (Feet) Sewered (Feet)
General development lakes - first tier 200              200
General development lakes - second and 267              200
additional tiers
Recreational development lakes         267              267
Natural environment lakes              400              320
All river classes                      300              300
Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The suitable area within each tier is next calculated by excluding
from the tier area all wetlands, bluffs, or land below the ordinary high water
level of public waters. This suitable area and the proposed project are then
subjected to either the residential or commercial planned unit development
density evaluation steps to arrive at an allowable number of dwelling units or
sites.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Residential And Commercial PUD Density Evaluation: The procedures for
determining the "base" density of a PUD and density increase multipliers are as
follows. Allowable densities may be transferred from any tier to any other tier
further from the water body, but must not be transferred to any other tier
closer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Residential PUD "Base" Density Evaluation: The suitable area within
each tier is divided by the single residential lot size standard for lakes or,
for rivers, the single residential lot width standard times the tier depth,
unless the city council has specified an alternative minimum lot size for
rivers which shall then be used to yield a base density of dwelling units or
sites for each tier. Proposed locations and numbers of dwelling units or sites
for the residential planned unit developments are then compared with the tier,
density, and suitability analyses herein and the design criteria in subsection
F of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Commercial PUD "Base" Density Evaluation:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Determine the average inside living area size of dwelling units
or sites within each tier, including both existing and proposed units and
sites. Computation of inside living area sizes need not include decks, patios,
stoops, steps, garages, or porches and basements, unless they are habitable
space.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Select the appropriate floor area ratio from the following table:
Commercial Planned Unit Development
Floor Area Ratios
Public Waters Classes
                    Sewered general    Second and
                    development lakes; additional tiers on
Â                   first tier on      unsewered general   Â 
Â                   unsewered general  development lakes;  Natural environment
Â                   development lakes; recreational        lakes and remote
1Average unit floor urban,             development lakes;  river segments
area (square feet)  agricultural,      transition and
                    tributary river    forested river
                    segments           segments
Commercial Planned Unit Development
Floor Area Ratios
Public Waters Classes
                    Sewered general    Second and
                    development lakes; additional tiers on
Â                   first tier on      unsewered general   Â 
Â                   unsewered general  development lakes;  Natural environment
Â                   development lakes; recreational        lakes and remote
1Average unit floor urban,             development lakes;  river segments
area (square feet)  agricultural,      transition and
                    tributary river    forested river
                    segments           segments
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 20Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â .010
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 30Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â .012
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 40Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â .014
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 50Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â .016
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 60Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â .019
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 70Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â .021
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 80Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â .023
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 90Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â .025
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 1,Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â .027
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 1,Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â .029
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 1,Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â .032
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 1,Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â .034
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 1,Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â .036
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 1,Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â ÂÂ Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â .038
Â 
Note:
Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â For average unit floor areas less than shown, use the floor area ratios
listed for 200 square feet. For areas greater than shown, use the ratios listed
for 1,500 square feet. For recreational camping areas, use the ratios listed at
400 square feet. Manufactured home sites in recreational camping areas shall
use a ratio equal to the size of the manufactured home, or if unknown, the
ratio listed for 1,000 square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Multiply the suitable area within each tier by the floor area
ratio to yield total floor area for each tier allowed to be used for dwelling
units or sites.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Divide the total floor area by tier computed in subsection E2c of
this section by the average inside living area size determined in subsection
E2a of this section. This yields a base number of dwelling units and sites for
each tier.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Proposed locations and numbers of dwelling units or sites for the
commercial planned unit development are then compared with the tier, density
and suitability analyses herein and the design criteria in subsection F of this
section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Density Increase Multipliers:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Increases to the dwelling unit or dwelling site base densities
previously determined are allowable if the dimensional standards in section 9-
3-9 of this chapter are met or exceeded and the design criteria in subsection F
of this section are satisfied. The allowable density increases in subsection
E3b of this section will only be allowed if structure setbacks from the
ordinary high water level are increased to at least fifty percent (50%) greater
than the minimum setback, or the impact on the water body is reduced an
equivalent amount through vegetative management, topography, or additional
means acceptable to the city council, and the setback is at least twenty five
percent (25%) greater than the minimum setback.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Allowable dwelling unit or dwelling site density increases for
residential or commercial planned unit developments:
Â 
Density Evaluation Tiers Maximum Density Increase Within Each Tier (Percent)
Â Â Â First              Â Â Â Â Â Â 50
Â Â Â Second             Â Â Â Â Â Â 100
Â Â Â Third              Â Â Â Â Â Â 200
Â Â Â Fourth             Â Â Â Â Â Â 200
Â Â Â Fifth              Â Â Â Â Â Â 200
Â 
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Maintenance And Design Criteria:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Maintenance And Administration Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Before final approval of a planned unit development, adequate
provisions must be developed for preservation and maintenance in perpetuity of
open spaces and for the continued existence and functioning of the development.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent easements, public
dedication and acceptance, or other equally effective and permanent means must
be provided to ensure long term preservation and maintenance of open space. The
instruments must include all of the following protections:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Commercial uses prohibited (for residential PUDs);
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Vegetation and topographic alterations other than routine
maintenance prohibited;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Construction of additional buildings or storage of vehicles
and other materials prohibited; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Uncontrolled beaching of watercraft prohibited.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Unless an equally effective alternative community framework is
established, when applicable, all residential planned unit developments must
use an owners' association with the following features:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Membership must be mandatory for each dwelling unit or site
purchaser and any successive purchasers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Each member must pay a pro rata share of the association's
expenses, and unpaid assessments can become liens on units or sites;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Assessments must be adjustable to accommodate changing
conditions; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The association must be responsible for insurance, taxes, and
maintenance of all commonly owned property and facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Open Space Requirements: Planned unit developments must contain open
space meeting all of the following criteria:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â At least fifty percent (50%) of the total project area must be
preserved as open space;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Dwelling units or sites, road rights of way, or land covered by
road surfaces, parking areas, or structures, except water oriented accessory
structures or facilities, are developed areas and shall not be included in the
computation of minimum open space;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Open space must include areas with physical characteristics
unsuitable for development in their natural state, and areas containing
significant historic sites or unplatted cemeteries;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Open space may include outdoor recreational facilities for use by
owners of dwelling units or sites, by guests staying in commercial dwelling
units or sites, and by the general public;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Open space may include subsurface sewage treatment systems if the
use of the space is restricted to avoid adverse impacts on the systems;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Open space must not include commercial facilities or uses, but
may contain water oriented accessory structures or facilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â The appearance of open space areas, including topography,
vegetation, and allowable uses, must be preserved by use of restrictive deed
covenants, permanent easements, public dedication and acceptance, or other
equally effective and permanent means; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â The shore impact zone, based on normal structure setbacks, must
be included as open space. For residential PUDs, at least fifty percent (50%)
of the shore impact zone area of existing developments or at least seventy
percent (70%) of the shore impact zone area of new developments must be
preserved in its natural or existing state. For commercial PUDs, at least fifty
percent (50%) of the shore impact zone must be preserved in its natural state.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Erosion Control And Storm Water Management: Erosion control and
storm water management plans must be developed, and the PUD must:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Be designed, and the construction managed, to minimize the
likelihood of serious erosion occurring either during or after construction.
This must be accomplished by limiting the amount and length of time of bare
ground exposure. Temporary ground covers, sediment entrapment facilities,
vegetated buffer strips, or other appropriate techniques must be used to
minimize erosion impacts on surface water features. Erosion control plans
approved by the soil and water conservation district may be required if project
size and site physical characteristics warrant; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Be designed and constructed to effectively manage reasonably
expected quantities and qualities of storm water runoff. Impervious surface
coverage within any tier must not exceed twenty five percent (25%) of the tier
area; except, that for commercial PUDs, thirty five percent (35%) impervious
surface coverage may be allowed in the first tier of general development lakes
with an approved storm water management plan and consistency with section 9-3-
9-3 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Centralization And Design Of Facilities: Centralization and design
of facilities and structures must be done according to the following standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Planned unit developments must be connected to publicly owned
water supply and sewer systems, if available. On site water supply and sewage
treatment systems must be centralized and designed and installed to meet or
exceed applicable standards or rules of the Minnesota department of health and
sections 9-3-9-2 and 9-3-9-8 of this chapter. On site sewage treatment systems
must be located on the most suitable areas of the development, and sufficient
lawn area free of limiting factors must be provided or a replacement soil
treatment system for each sewage system;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Dwelling units or sites must be clustered into one or more groups
and located on suitable areas of the development. They must be designed and
located to meet or exceed the following dimensional standards for the relevant
shoreland classification:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Setback from the ordinary high water levels elevation above
the surface water features, and maximum height;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Setbacks from the ordinary high water level must be increased
in accordance with subsection E3 of this section for developments with density
increases;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Shore recreation facilities, including, but not limited to,
swimming areas, docks, and watercraft mooring areas and launching ramps, must
be centralized and located in areas suitable for them. Evaluation of
suitability must include consideration of land slope, water depth, vegetation,
soils, depth to ground water and bedrock, or other relevant factors. The number
of spaces provided for continuous beaching, mooring, or docking of watercraft
must not exceed one for each allowable dwelling unit or site in the first tier
(notwithstanding existing mooring sites in an existing commercially used
harbor). Launching ramp facilities, including a small dock for loading and
unloading equipment, may be provided for use by occupants of dwelling units or
sites located in other tiers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Structures, parking areas, and other facilities must be treated
to reduce visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by
vegetation, topography, increased setbacks, color, or other means acceptable to
the local unit of government, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions. Vegetative
and topographic screening must be preserved, if existing, or may be required to
be provided;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Accessory structures and facilities, except water oriented
accessory structures, must meet the required principal structure setback and
must be centralized; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Water oriented accessory structures and facilities may be allowed
if they meet or exceed design standards contained in section 9-3-9-2 of this
chapter and are centralized.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Conversions: The city may allow existing resorts or other land uses and
facilities to be converted to residential planned unit developments if all of
the following standards are met:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Proposed conversions must be initially evaluated using the same
procedures for residential planned unit developments involving all new
construction. Inconsistencies between existing features of the development and
these standards must be identified.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Deficiencies involving water supply and sewage treatment, structure
color, impervious coverage, open space, and shore recreation facilities must be
corrected as part of the conversion or as specified in the conditional use
permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Shore and bluff impact zone deficiencies must be evaluated and
reasonable improvements made as part of the conversion. These improvements must
include, where applicable, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Removal of extraneous buildings, docks, or other facilities that
no longer need to be located in shore or bluff impact zones;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Remedial measures to correct erosion sites and improve vegetative
cover and screening of buildings and other facilities as viewed from the water;
and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â If existing dwelling units are located in shore or bluff impact
zones, conditions are attached to approvals of conversions that preclude
exterior expansions in any dimension or substantial alterations. The conditions
must also provide for future relocation of dwelling units, where feasible, to
other locations, meeting all setback and elevation requirements when they are
rebuilt or replaced.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Existing dwelling unit or dwelling site densities that exceed
standards in subsection E of this section may be allowed to continue but must
not be allowed to be increased, either at the time of conversion or in the
future. Efforts must be made during the conversion to limit impacts of high
densities by requiring seasonal use, improving vegetative screening,
centralizing shore recreation facilities, installing new sewage treatment
systems, or other means. (Ord. 106, 12-19-1994)
CHAPTER 4
BUILDING STANDARDS
SECTION:
9-4-1: Findings And Purpose
9-4-2: Definitions
9-4-3: Administration
9-4-4: Standards For The Exterior Of All Buildings
9-4-5: Standards For The Interior Of All Dwellings
9-4-6: Enforcement
9-4-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
The City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the City to protect
the public health, safety, and general welfare of its citizens by adoption of
these building standards. The intent of this chapter is to further the
following objectives:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â To preserve the value of buildings within the City;
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â To protect the character and stability of buildings within the City;
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â To provide minimum standards of maintenance for buildings within the
City; and
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â To correct building conditions that do not comply with the standards of
maintenance established herein. (Ord. 152, 1-14-2019)
9-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Scope: Unless otherwise expressly stated, the following terms shall,
for the purposes of this chapter, have the meanings shown in this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Interchangeability: Words stated in the present tense include the
future; words stated in the masculine gender include the feminine and neuter;
the singular number includes the plural and the plural the singular.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Terms Defined In Other Codes: Where terms are not defined in this
section and are defined in the City's Building Code, Fire Code, or Zoning Code,
such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as in those codes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Terms Not Defined: Where terms are not defined through the methods
authorized by this section, such terms shall have ordinarily accepted meanings
such as the context implies.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Parts: Whenever the words "dwelling unit", "dwelling", "premises",
or "building" are stated in this chapter, they shall be construed as though
they were followed by the words "or any part thereof".
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â General Definitions:
Â Â Â APPROVED: Approved by the Code official.
Â Â Â BASEMENT: That portion of a building which is partly or completely below
grade.
Â Â Â BATHROOM: A room containing plumbing fixtures including a bathtub or shower.
Â Â Â BUILDING: Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
Â Â Â CODE OFFICIAL: The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this chapter, or any duly authorized representative.
Â Â Â CONDEMN: To adjudge unfit for occupancy.
Â Â Â DWELLING: Any building which is wholly or partly used or intended to be used
for living or sleeping by human occupants; provided that temporary housing as
hereinafter defined shall not be regarded as a dwelling.
Â Â Â DWELLING UNIT: A single unit providing complete, independent living
facilities for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living,
sleeping, eating, cooking, and sanitation.
Â Â Â EXTERMINATION: The control and elimination of insects, rats, or other pests
by eliminating their harborage places; by removing or making inaccessible
materials that serve as their food; by poison, spraying, fumigating, trapping,
or by any other approved pest elimination methods.
Â Â Â GARBAGE: Any organic waste normally produced from the handling and
preparation of foods and decayed and spoiled food from any source. Garbage does
not include yard waste or any inorganic rubbish.
Â Â Â GUARD: A building component or a system of building components located at or
near the open sides of elevated walking surfaces that minimizes the possibility
of a fall from the walking surface to a lower level.
Â Â Â IMMINENT DANGER: A condition which could cause serious or life threatening
injury or death at any time.
Â Â Â INFESTATION: The presence, within or contiguous to, a building or premises
of insects, rats, vermin, or other pests.
Â Â Â LET FOR OCCUPANCY OR LET: To permit, provide, or offer possession or
occupancy of a dwelling, dwelling unit, rooming unit, building, premises, or
structure by a person who is or is not the legal owner of record thereof,
pursuant to a written or unwritten lease, agreement, or license, or pursuant to
a recorded or unrecorded agreement of contract for the sale of land.
Â Â Â MANAGER: Any person who has charge, care, or control of a building or
premises which is let or offered for occupancy.
Â Â Â OCCUPANCY: The purpose for which a building or portion thereof is utilized
or occupied.
Â Â Â OCCUPANT: Any individual living or sleeping in a building, or having
possession of a space within a building.
Â Â Â OWNER: Any person, agent, operator, firm, or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
State, County, or Municipality as holding title to the property; or otherwise
having control of the property, including the guardian of the estate of any
such person, and the executor or administrator of the estate of such person if
ordered to take possession of real property by a court.
Â Â Â PERSON: An individual, corporation, partnership, or any other group acting
as a unit.
Â Â Â PREMISES: A lot, plot, or parcel of land, easement, or public way, including
any buildings thereon.
Â Â Â PUBLIC WAY: Any street, alley, or similar parcel of land essentially
unobstructed from the ground to the sky.
Â Â Â ROOMING UNIT: Any room or group of rooms forming a single habitable unit
occupied or intended to be occupied for sleeping or living, but not for cooking
purposes.
Â Â Â RUBBISH: Inorganic materials such as packaging products, cans, bottles,
paper, ashes, sweepings, and other similar inorganic waste.
Â Â Â STRICT LIABILITY OFFENSE: An offense in which the prosecution in a legal
proceeding is not required to prove criminal intent as a part of its case, in
which it is enough to prove that the defendant either did an act which was
prohibited, or failed to do an act which the defendant was legally required to
do.
Â Â Â STRUCTURE: That which is built or constructed or a portion thereof.
Â Â Â TEMPORARY HOUSING: Any tent, trailer, or other structure used for human
shelter, which is designed to be transportable and which is not attached to the
ground, to another structure, or to any utilities system on the same premises
for more than thirty (30) consecutive days.
Â Â Â TENANT: A person, corporation, partnership, or group, whether or not the
legal owner of record, occupying a building or portion thereof as a unit.
Â Â Â VENTILATION: The natural or mechanical process of supplying conditioned or
unconditioned air to, or removing such air from, any space.
Â Â Â WORKMANLIKE: Executed in a skilled manner; e.g., generally plumb, level,
square, in line, undamaged, and without marring adjacent work. (Ord. 152, 1-14-
2019)
9-4-3: ADMINISTRATION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Applicability:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General: The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all matters
affecting or relating to buildings and premises. Where, in a specific case,
different sections of this chapter specify different requirements, the most
restrictive shall govern.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Maintenance: Equipment, systems, devices, and safeguards required by
this chapter or a previous regulation or code under which the building or
premises was constructed, altered, or repaired shall be maintained in good
working order. No manager, owner, or occupant shall cause any service,
facility, equipment, or utility which is required under this section to be
removed from or shut off from or discontinued for any occupied dwelling, except
for such temporary interruption as necessary while repairs or alterations are
in progress. The requirements of this chapter are not intended to provide the
basis for removal of fire protection and safety systems and devices in existing
buildings. Except as otherwise specified herein, the owner or the owner's
designated agent shall be responsible for the maintenance of buildings and
premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Application Of Other Codes: Repairs, additions, or alterations to a
building, or changes of occupancy, shall be done in accordance with the
procedures and provisions of the City Building Code. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to cancel, modify, or set aside any provision of the Zoning
Code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Existing Remedies: The provisions in this chapter shall not be
construed to abolish or impair existing remedies of the jurisdiction or its
officers or agencies relating to the removal or demolition of any building,
which is dangerous, unsafe, and unsanitary.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Workmanship: Repairs, maintenance work, alterations, or
installations, which are caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of
this chapter, shall be executed and installed in a workmanlike manner and
installed in accordance with the manufacturer's installation instructions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Historic Buildings: The provisions of this chapter shall not be
mandatory for existing buildings officially designated as historic buildings
when such buildings are judged by the Code official to be safe and in the
public interest of health, safety, and welfare.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Conflict Of Regulations: In any case where a provision of this
chapter is found to be in conflict with a provision of any zoning, building,
fire, safety, or health ordinance or code of the City, the provision which
establishes the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the health
and safety of the people, shall prevail.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Code Official, Maintenance Inspections:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Appointment: The City Council shall appoint a Code official to
administer this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Designees: The Code official shall have the authority to appoint
designees to carry out the inspections and to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. Whenever Code official is stated in this chapter, it includes all
designees of the Code official.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Liability: The Code official, officer, or employee charged with the
enforcement of this chapter, while acting for the jurisdiction, shall not
thereby be rendered liable personally, and is hereby relieved from all personal
liability for any damage accruing to persons or property as a result of an act
required or permitted in the discharge of official duties. Any suit instituted
against any officer or employee because of an act performed by that officer or
employee in the lawful discharge of duties and under the provisions of this
chapter shall be defended by the legal representative of the jurisdiction until
the final termination of the proceedings. The Code official or any subordinate
shall not be liable for costs in an action, suit, or proceeding that is
instituted in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter; and the Code
official, acting in good faith and without malice, shall be free from liability
for acts performed under any of its provisions by reason of any act or omission
in the performance of official duties in connection therewith.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Fees: The fees for activities and services performed by the Code
official or appointed designees under this chapter shall be set by the City
Council through approval and adoption of a fee schedule. The most current
adopted fee schedule shall be used.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Duties And Powers Of Code Official:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General: The Code official shall enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Rule Making Authority: The Code official shall have authority as
necessary in the interest of public health, safety, and general welfare to:
adopt and promulgate rules and procedures; interpret and implement the
provisions of this chapter; secure the intent thereof; and designate
requirements applicable because of local climatic or other conditions. Such
rules shall not have the effect of waiving structural or fire performance
requirements specifically provided for in this chapter, or of violating
accepted engineering methods involving public safety.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Inspections: The Code official shall make all of the required
inspections, or shall accept reports of inspection by approved agencies or
individuals. All reports of such inspections shall be in writing and be
certified by a responsible officer of such approved agency or by the
responsible individual. The Code official is authorized to engage such expert
opinion as deemed necessary to report upon unusual technical issues that arise,
subject to the approval of the appointing authority.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Right Of Entry: The Code official is authorized to enter the
building or premises at reasonable times to inspect subject to constitutional
restrictions on unreasonable searches and seizures. If entry is refused or not
obtained, the Code official is authorized to pursue recourse as provided by
law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Identification: The Code official shall carry proper identification
when inspecting buildings or premises in the performance of duties under this
chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Required Testing: The owner is required to present proper evidence
that any material or methods used conforms to the requirements of this Code.
The Code official designated by the City Council to enforce this chapter shall
have the authority to require test reports or investigations as evidence of
compliance. The cost of all tests, reports, and investigations shall be paid by
the owner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Notices And Orders: The Code official shall issue all necessary
notices or orders to ensure compliance with this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Records: The Code official shall keep official records of all
business and activities specified in the provisions of this chapter. Such
records shall be retained in the official records pursuant to the document
retention policy of the City.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Coordination Of Inspections: Whenever the enforcement of this
chapter or another code or ordinance, the responsibility of more than one Code
official of the jurisdiction is involved, it shall be the duty of the Code
officials involved to coordinate their inspections and administrative orders as
fully as practicable so that the owners and occupants of the building shall not
be subjected to visits by numerous inspectors or multiple or conflicting
orders. (Ord. 152, 1-14-2019)
9-4-4: STANDARDS FOR THE EXTERIOR OF ALL BUILDINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Scope: The provisions of this section shall apply to all buildings
within the City.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Responsibility: The owner shall be responsible for compliance with
the requirements of this section.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General: The exterior of any building shall be maintained in good
repair so as not to pose a threat to the public health, safety, or welfare.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Treatment: All exterior surfaces, including, but not limited to,
doors, door and window frames, cornices, porches, and trim, shall be maintained
in good condition. Exterior wood surfaces, other than decay resistant woods,
shall be protected from the elements and decay by painting or other protective
covering or treatment. Peeling, flaking, and chipped paint shall be eliminated
and surfaces repainted. All siding and masonry joints as well as those between
the building envelope and the perimeter of windows, doors, and skylights shall
be maintained weather resistant and watertight.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Address Numbers: Buildings shall have approved address numbers,
building numbers, or approved building identification placed in a position that
is plainly legible and visible from the street or road fronting the property.
These numbers shall contrast with their background. Address numbers shall be
Arabic numbers or alphabetic letters. Numbers shall be a minimum of four inches
(4") (102 mm) high with a minimum stroke width of one-half inch (1/2") (12.7
mm). Where access is by means of a private road and the building address cannot
be viewed from the public way, a monument, pole, or other sign or means shall
be used to identify the building.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Structural Members: All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Foundation Walls: All foundation walls shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks and shall be kept in such condition so as to
prevent the entry of rodents.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Exterior Walls: All exterior walls shall be free from holes, breaks,
loose, or rotting materials; and maintained weatherproof and properly surface
coated where required to prevent deterioration.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Roofs And Drainage: The roof and flashing shall be sound, tight and
not have defects that admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
dampness or deterioration in the walls or interior portion of the building. All
gutters and downspouts shall be functional on every building such that full and
complete drainage away from the building occurs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Decorative Features: All cornices, belt courses, corbels, terra
cotta trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in
good repair with proper anchorage and in a safe condition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Overhang Extensions: All canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings,
fire escapes, standpipes, exhaust ducts, and similar overhang extensions shall
be maintained in good repair and be properly anchored so as to be kept in a
sound condition. When required, all exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be
protected from the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application
of weather coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment. All
soffit and fascia areas shall be reasonably weathertight, watertight and
rodent-proof; and shall be kept in a workmanlike state of maintenance and
repair.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Stair And Walking Surfaces: Every stair, ramp, balcony, porch,
deck, or other walking surface shall be kept in a proper state of repair and
maintained free from hazardous conditions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Stairways, Decks, Porches, And Balconies: Every exterior stairway,
deck, porch, and balcony, and all appurtenances attached thereto, shall be
maintained structurally sound, in good repair, with proper anchorage and
capable of supporting the imposed loads.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Chimneys And Towers: All chimneys, cooling towers, smoke stacks,
and similar appurtenances shall be maintained structurally safe and sound, and
in good repair. All exposed surfaces of metal or wood shall be protected from
the elements and against decay or rust by periodic application of weather
coating materials, such as paint or similar surface treatment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Exhaust Vents: Pipes, ducts, conductors, fans, or blowers shall not
discharge gases, steam, vapor, hot air, grease, smoke, odors, or other gaseous
or particulate wastes directly upon abutting or adjacent public or private
property or that of another tenant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â Handrails And Guards: Every handrail and guard shall be firmly
fastened and capable of supporting normally imposed loads and shall be
maintained in good condition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 15.Â Â Â Window, Skylight, Door, And Frames: Every window, skylight, door,
and frame shall be kept in sound condition, good repair, and weathertight.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Openable Windows: Every window, other than a fixed window, shall
be easily openable and capable of being held in position by window hardware.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 16.Â Â Â Insect Screens: During the appropriate season, every window and
other outside opening required for ventilation of habitable rooms, food
preparation areas, food service areas, or any areas where products to be
included or utilized in food for human consumption are processed, manufactured,
packaged, or stored, shall be supplied with approved tightly fitting screens.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 17.Â Â Â Doors: All exterior doors, door assemblies, and hardware shall be
maintained in good condition. Locks at all entrances to dwelling units, rooming
units, and guestrooms shall tightly secure the door.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 18.Â Â Â Basement Hatchways: Every basement hatchway shall be maintained to
prevent the entrance of rodents, rain, and surface drainage water. (Ord. 152,
1-14-2019)
9-4-5: STANDARDS FOR THE INTERIOR OF ALL DWELLINGS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â General:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Scope: The provisions of this section shall apply to all dwellings
within the City.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Responsibility: Unless otherwise stated, the owner shall be
responsible for compliance with the requirements of this section. An owner or
manager shall not permit another person to occupy dwellings which are not in a
sanitary and safe condition and which do not comply with the requirements of
this chapter.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Minimum Standards For Basic Equipment And Facilities: No person shall
occupy as owner/occupant or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit, for the purpose of living, sleeping, cooking, or eating therein,
which does not comply with the following requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Kitchen Sink: Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink in
good working condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Toilets: Every dwelling unit shall contain a room which affords
privacy to a person within said room and which is equipped with a flush water
closet and a lavatory basin in good working condition and properly connected to
a water and sewer system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Bath: Every dwelling unit shall contain, within a room which affords
privacy to a person within said room, a bathtub or shower in good working
condition and properly connected to a water and sewer system.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Water: Every kitchen sink, lavatory basin, bathtub, shower, and
laundry facilities required under the provisions of this chapter shall be
properly connected with both hot and cold water lines in good working order. If
served by private wells, the water shall be tested annually. A copy of the
results of the test shall be filed with the City and posted on the site.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Rubbish And Garbage: Every dwelling unit shall have adequate
disposal facilities or storage containers for rubbish, garbage, and recyclables
in accordance with the requirements of applicable City ordinances. Rubbish and
garbage shall be collected and disposed of in accordance with the requirements
of applicable City ordinances.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Smoke Detector: Smoke detectors shall be installed in hallways or
areas giving access to each separate sleeping area. Where sleeping rooms are on
the upper level only, the detector shall be placed at the center of the ceiling
directly above the stairway. Smoke detectors shall also be installed in the
basement of a dwelling unit having a stairway which opens from the basement
into the dwelling unit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Fire Extinguisher: Every dwelling unit shall be equipped with a fire
extinguisher with a minimum rating of 2A10BC.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Carbon Monoxide Alarm: A carbon monoxide alarm shall be installed
outside and not more than ten feet (10') from each separate sleeping area or
bedroom. An alarm shall be installed on each level containing sleeping areas or
bedrooms.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Hot Water: Every dwelling shall have supplied water-heating
facilities which are properly installed, are maintained in safe and good
working condition, are properly connected with hot water lines required under
the provisions of this chapter, and are capable of heating water to such
temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water to be drawn at every
required kitchen sink, lavatory basin, bathtub, or shower at a temperature of
not less than one hundred twenty degrees Fahrenheit (120Â°F). Such supplied
water-heating facilities shall be capable of meeting the requirements of this
chapter when the dwelling or dwelling unit heating facilities required are not
in operation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Exits:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Every dwelling unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress
leading to safe and open space at ground level as required by the laws of this
State.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â No basement or cellar area or room may be tenant occupied for
sleeping purposes unless a properly sized and installed second emergency exit
is present and approved.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Minimum Standards For Light, Ventilation, And Heating: No person shall
occupy as owner/occupant or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or
dwelling unit, for the purpose of living therein, which does not comply with
the following requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Emergency Exit: Every habitable room used for sleeping purposes
shall have at least one openable window, second door, or other opening facing
directly to the outdoors or leading directly to a room that has an opening
directly outdoors. The minimum openable area of the window or other area shall
be sufficient in size to allow for emergency egress; it being the intent of
this provision to ensure that there are two (2) means of escape from all
habitable rooms used for sleeping. The window or other opening shall have a
minimum net clear openable width of twenty inches (20"), a minimum net clear
openable height of twenty four inches (24"), and the finished sill height shall
not be more than forty four inches (44") above the floor. The minimum total
area shall not be less than 5.7 square feet. Escape windows or other openings
with finished sill heights below the adjacent ground level shall have a window
well that is at least as deep as the window sill, extends at least thirty six
inches (36") from the building, and allows the opening of the window to a full
ninety degrees (90Â°). Existing emergency exits that fail to meet the standards
contained in this subsection, shall, at a minimum, meet the standards specified
in the Building Code that was in effect at the time of construction or
alteration/modification.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Ventilation: Every habitable room shall have at least one window or
skylight which can easily be opened or such other means to adequately ventilate
the room as approved by the City. Whenever the only window in a room is a
skylight-type window in the top of such room, the total window area of such
skylight shall equal at least fifteen percent (15%) of the total floor area of
such room. Existing habitable rooms that fail to meet the standards contained
in this subsection, shall, at a minimum, meet the standards specified in the
Building Code that was in effect at the time of construction or alteration/
modification.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Bathroom Light And Ventilation: Every bathroom and water closet
compartment shall comply with the light and ventilation requirements for
habitable rooms contained in this section except that no window or skylight
shall be required in adequately ventilated bathrooms and water closet
compartments equipped with ventilation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Electric Outlets: Every habitable room of a dwelling shall contain
at least two (2) separate floor or wall-type electric convenience outlets or
one such convenience outlet and one supplied ceiling type electric light
fixture; and every water closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room, furnace
room, and public hall shall contain at least one supplied ceiling or wall- type
electric light fixture. Every such outlet and fixture shall be properly
installed, shall be maintained in good and safe working condition, and shall be
connected to the source of electric power in a safe manner. Every dwelling unit
must have access to the fuse or circuit boxes serving that unit for safety
purposes. Any outlet located within six feet (6') of a water source shall be
GFCI protected.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Heating Facilities: Every dwelling shall have heating facilities
which are properly installed, are maintained in safe and good working
condition, and are capable of safely and adequately heating all habitable
rooms, bathrooms, and water closet compartments in every dwelling unit located
therein to a temperature of at least seventy degrees Fahrenheit (70Â°F), at a
distance of three feet (3') above floor level, under ordinary minimum winter
conditions. Every dwelling unit must have access at all times to the heating
thermostat controls for its heating supply.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Lighting Halls And Stairways: Every hallway and stairway in every
multiple dwelling containing five (5) or more dwelling units shall be
adequately lighted at all times. Every hallway and stairway in buildings
devoted solely to dwelling occupancy and containing not more than four (4)
dwelling units may be supplied with conveniently located light switches,
controlling an adequate lighting system which may be turned on when needed,
instead of full-time lighting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Rodent Protection: Every basement or cellar window used or intended
to be used for ventilation and every other opening to a basement which might
provide an entry for rodents shall be supplied with a screen or such other
device as will effectively prevent their entrance.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â General Requirements Relating To The Safe And Sanitary Maintenance Of
Dwelling And Dwelling Units: No person shall occupy as owner/occupant or let to
another for occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose of living
therein, which does not comply with the following requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Foundation, Floor, Wall, Ceiling, And Roof: Every foundation, floor,
wall, ceiling, and roof shall be reasonably weathertight, watertight, and
rodent-proof, shall be capable of affording privacy, and shall be kept in good
repair.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Structural Members: All structural members shall be maintained free
from deterioration, and shall be capable of safely supporting the imposed dead
and live loads.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Exterior Opening: Every window, exterior door, and basement hatchway
shall be reasonably weathertight, watertight, and rodent-proof and shall be
kept in sound working condition and good repair.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Stairs And Porches: Every inside and outside stair, every porch, and
every appurtenance thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and
capable of supporting the load that normal use may cause to be placed thereon
and shall be kept in sound condition and good repair. Properly installed and
maintained handrails are required on all stairs with four (4) risers or more.
Guardrails shall be present to prevent any opening from being over four inches
(4") on all porches, balconies, stairs, or landings which are higher than
thirty inches (30") off the ground. Guardrails may not be less than thirty six
inches (36") in height. Existing stairs and porches that fail to meet the
standards contained in this subsection, shall, at a minimum, meet the standards
specified in the Building Code that was in effect at the time of construction
or alteration/modification.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Plumbing Fixtures: Every plumbing fixture and water waste pipe shall
be properly installed and maintained in good sanitary working condition, free
from defects, leaks, and obstructions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Surfaces: Every water closet compartment floor surface, bathroom
floor surface, kitchen floor surface, and kitchen counter surfaces shall be
constructed and maintained so as to be reasonably impervious to water and so as
to permit such surfaces to be easily kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Supplied Facilities: Every supplied facility, piece of equipment, or
utility, which is required under this section, shall be so constructed or
installed that it will function safely and effectively and shall be maintained
in satisfactory working condition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Continuous Service Of Facilities: No owner, operator, or occupant
shall cause any service, facility equipment, or utility, which is required
under this section, to be removed from or shut off from or discontinued for any
occupied dwelling let or occupied by the owner, operator, or occupant, except
for such temporary interruption as may be necessary while actual repairs or
alterations are in process.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Fitness For Occupancy: No owner shall occupy or let to any other
occupant any vacant dwelling unit unless it is clean, sanitary, and fit for
human occupancy.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Minimum Standards For Space, Use, And Location: No person shall occupy
or let to another for occupancy any dwelling or dwelling unit, for the purpose
of living therein, which does not comply with the following requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Living Space: Every dwelling unit shall contain for use as living
space at least one hundred fifty (150) square feet of floor space of habitable
room floor space for the first occupant thereof and at least one hundred (100)
additional square feet of habitable room floor space for every additional
occupant thereof. Sleeping space to be contained within a dwelling unit shall
be a separate requirement in accordance within this section and shall not be
counted in the calculation of living space to be contained in the unit under
this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Sleeping Space: In every dwelling unit of two (2) or more rooms,
every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one occupant shall contain at
least seventy (70) square feet of habitable room floor space, and every room
occupied for sleeping purposes by more than one occupant shall contain at least
forty (40) square feet of habitable room floor space for each occupant thereof.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Access To Toilet Facilities: No dwelling or dwelling unit used for
rental purposes containing two (2) or more sleeping rooms shall have such room
arrangements that access to a bathroom or water closet compartment intended for
use by occupants of more than one sleeping room can be had only by going
through another sleeping room, nor shall room arrangements be such that access
to a sleeping room can be had only by going through another sleeping room or a
bathroom or water closet compartment.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Ceiling Height: The floor area of that part of any room where the
ceiling height is less than five feet (5') shall not be considered as part of
the floor area in computing the total floor area of the room for the purpose of
determining the maximum permissible occupancy thereof.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Basements: No basement space shall be used as a habitable room or
dwelling unit unless:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â It shall comply with this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The floor and walls must be constructed so as to reasonably
prevent leakage of underground and surface runoff water. Proper drainage must
be provided away from the building, and floors and walls must be protected
against dampness.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â There is adequate window space sufficient for ventilation and
escape.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Responsibilities Of Owners And Occupants:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Public Areas: Every owner of a dwelling containing two (2) or more
dwelling units shall be responsible for maintaining in a clean and sanitary
condition the shared or public areas of the dwelling and premises thereof.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Cleanliness: Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall
keep in a clean and sanitary condition that part of the dwelling, dwelling
unit, and premises thereof which the occupant controls.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Rubbish: Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose
of all rubbish in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the rubbish or
recycling containers as required by City ordinance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Garbage: Every occupant of a dwelling or dwelling unit shall dispose
of all garbage and any other organic waste which might provide food for rodents
in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in the garbage disposal facilities
or garbage storage containers required by this chapter. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner to supply such facilities or containers for all
dwelling units in a dwelling containing more than four (4) dwelling units and
for all dwelling units located on premises where more than four (4) dwelling
units share the same premises. In all other cases, it shall be the
responsibility of the occupant to furnish such facilities or containers.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Extermination Of Pests: Every occupant of a dwelling containing a
single dwelling unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects,
rodents, or other pests therein or on the premises, and every occupant of a
dwelling unit in a dwelling containing more than one dwelling unit shall be
responsible for such extermination whenever the dwelling unit is the only one
infested. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, whenever
infestation is caused by failure of the owner to maintain a dwelling in a
rodent or reasonably insect- proof condition, extermination shall be the
responsibility of the owner. Whenever infestation exists in two (2) or more of
the dwelling units in any dwelling, or in the shared or public parts of any
dwelling containing two (2) or more dwelling units, extermination thereof shall
be the responsibility of the owner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Plumbing Fixtures: Every occupant of a dwelling unit shall keep all
plumbing fixtures therein in a clean and sanitary condition and shall be
responsible for the exercise of reasonable care in the proper use and operation
thereof. (Ord. 152, 1-14-2019)
9-4-6: ENFORCEMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Violations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Unlawful Acts: It shall be unlawful for a person, firm, or
corporation to be in conflict with or in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Notice Of Violation: The Code official shall serve a notice of
violation or order in accordance with subsection B of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Prosecution Of Violation: Any person failing to comply with a notice
of violation or order served in accordance with subsection B of this section
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and the violation shall be deemed a
strict liability offense. If the notice of violation is not complied with, the
Code official shall institute the appropriate proceeding at law or in equity to
restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require the removal or
termination of the unlawful occupancy of the building in violation of the
provisions of this chapter or of the order or direction made pursuant thereto.
Any action taken by the City shall be charged against the real estate upon
which the building is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Violation Of Provisions; Penalties: Any person who shall violate a
provision of this chapter, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements thereof, may be prosecuted within the limits provided by State or
this Code. Violation shall be deemed a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation
continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
The penalty provisions of title 1, chapter 4 of this Code also apply.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Abatement Of Violation: The imposition of the penalties herein
prescribed shall not preclude the legal officer of the City from instituting
appropriate action to restrain, correct, or abate a violation, or to prevent
illegal occupancy of a building, structure, or premises, or to stop an illegal
act, conduct, business, or utilization of the building, structure, or premises.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Notices And Orders:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Notice To Person Responsible: Whenever the Code official determines
that there has been a violation of this chapter or has grounds to believe that
a violation has occurred, notice shall be given to the person responsible in
the manner prescribed in subsections B2 and B3 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Form: Such notice prescribed in subsection B1 of this section shall
be in accordance with all of the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Be in writing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the dwelling unit or building into
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Method Of Service: Such notice shall be deemed to be properly served
if a copy thereof is:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Delivered personally;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Sent by certified or first class mail addressed to the last known
address of the person responsible; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â If the notice is returned showing that the letter was not
delivered, a copy thereof shall be posted in a conspicuous place in or about
the building affected by such notice.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Penalties: Penalties for noncompliance with orders and notices shall
be as set forth in subsection A4 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Transfer Of Ownership: It shall be unlawful for the owner of any
dwelling unit or building who has received a compliance order or upon whom a
notice of violation has been served to sell, transfer, mortgage, lease, or
otherwise dispose of such dwelling unit or building to another until the
provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been complied
with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee, or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation
issued by the Code official and shall furnish to the Code official a signed and
notarized statement from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee, or lessee,
acknowledging the receipt of such compliance order or notice of violation and
fully accepting the responsibility without condition for making the corrections
or repairs required by such compliance order or notice of violation.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Unsafe Buildings And Equipment:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General: When a building or equipment is found by the Code official
to be unsafe, or when a building is found unfit for human occupancy, or is
found unlawful, such building shall be condemned pursuant to the provisions of
this subsection C.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Unsafe Buildings: An "unsafe building" is one that is found to be
dangerous to the life, health, property, or safety of the public or the
occupants of the building by not providing minimum safeguards to protect or
warn occupants in the event of fire, or because such building contains unsafe
equipment or is so damaged, decayed, dilapidated, structurally unsafe, or of
such faulty construction or unstable foundation, that partial or complete
collapse is possible.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Unsafe Equipment: Unsafe equipment includes any boiler, heating
equipment, elevator, moving stairway, electrical wiring or device, flammable
liquid containers, or other equipment on the premises or within the building
which is in such disrepair or condition that such equipment is a hazard to
life, health, property, or safety of the public or occupants of the premises or
building.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Building Unfit For Human Occupancy: A building is unfit for human
occupancy whenever the Code official finds that such building is unsafe,
unlawful or, because of the degree to which the building is in disrepair or
lacks maintenance, is unsanitary, vermin or rat infested, contains filth and
contamination, or lacks ventilation, illumination, sanitary or heating
facilities, or other essential equipment required by this chapter, or because
the location of the building constitutes a hazard to the occupants of the
building or to the public.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Unlawful Building: An unlawful building is one found in whole or
in part to be occupied by more persons than permitted under this chapter, or
was erected, altered, or occupied contrary to law.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Closing Of Vacant Buildings: If the building is vacant and unfit for
human habitation and occupancy, and is not in danger of structural collapse,
the Code official is authorized to post a placard of condemnation on the
premises and order the building closed up so as not to be an attractive
nuisance. Upon failure of the owner to close up the premises within the time
specified in the order, the Code official shall cause the premises to be closed
and secured through any available public agency or by contract or arrangement
by private persons and the cost thereof shall be charged against the real
estate upon which the building is located and shall be a lien upon such real
estate and may be collected by any other legal resource.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Notice: Whenever the Code official has condemned a building or
equipment under the provisions of this subsection C, notice shall be posted in
a conspicuous place in or about the building affected by such notice and served
on the owner or the person or persons responsible for the building or equipment
in accordance with subsection B3 of this section. If the notice pertains to
equipment, it shall also be placed on the condemned equipment. The notice shall
be in the form prescribed in subsection B2 of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Placarding: Upon failure of the owner or person responsible to
comply with the notice provisions within the time given, the Code official
shall post on the premises or on defective equipment a placard bearing the word
"condemned" and a statement of the penalties provided for occupying the
premises, operating the equipment, or removing the placard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Placard Removal: The Code official shall remove the condemnation
placard whenever the defect or defects upon which the condemnation and
placarding action were based have been eliminated. Any person who defaces or
removes a condemnation placard without the approval of the Code official shall
be subject to the penalties provided by this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Prohibited Occupancy: Any occupied building condemned and placarded
by the Code official shall be vacated as ordered by the Code official. Any
person who shall occupy a placarded premises or shall operate placarded
equipment, and any owner or any person responsible for the premises who shall
let anyone occupy a placarded premises or operate placarded equipment shall be
liable for the penalties provided by this section.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Emergency Measures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Imminent Danger: When, in the opinion of the Code official, there is
imminent danger of failure or collapse of a building or structure which
endangers life, or when any building or part of a building has fallen and life
is endangered by the occupation of the building, or when there is actual or
potential danger to the building occupants or those in the proximity of any
building because of explosives, explosive fumes, or vapors or the presence of
toxic fumes, gases, or materials, or operation of defective or dangerous
equipment, the Code official is hereby authorized and empowered to order and
require the occupants to vacate the premises forthwith. The Code official shall
cause to be posted at each entrance to such building a notice reading as
follows: "This Building is Unsafe and Its Occupancy Has Been Prohibited by the
Code Official". It shall be unlawful for any person to enter such building
except for the purpose of securing the building, making the required repairs,
removing the hazardous condition, or of demolishing the same.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Temporary Safeguards: Notwithstanding other provisions of this
section, whenever, in the opinion of the Code official, there is imminent
danger due to an unsafe condition, the Code official shall order the necessary
work to be done, including the boarding up of openings, to render such building
temporarily safe whether or not the legal procedure herein described has been
instituted; and shall cause other such action to be taken as the Code official
deems necessary to meet such emergency.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Closing Streets: When necessary for the public safety, the Code
official shall temporarily close buildings and close, or order the authority
having jurisdiction to close, sidewalks, streets, public ways and places
adjacent to unsafe buildings, and prohibit the same from being utilized.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Emergency Repairs: For the purposes of this section, the Code
official shall employ the necessary labor and materials to perform the required
work as expeditiously as possible.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Costs Of Emergency Repairs: Costs incurred in the performance of
emergency work shall be paid by the jurisdiction. The legal counsel of the
jurisdiction shall institute appropriate action against the owner of the
premises where the unsafe building is or was located for the recovery of such
costs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Hearing: Any person ordered to take emergency measures shall comply
with such order forthwith. Any affected person shall thereafter, upon petition
directed to the City Council, be afforded a hearing as described in subsection
F of this section.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Demolition:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General: The Code official shall order the owner of any premises
upon which is located any building, which in the Code official's judgment is so
old, dilapidated, or has become so out of repair as to be dangerous, unsafe,
unsanitary, or otherwise unfit for human habitation or occupancy, and such that
it is unreasonable to repair the building, to demolish and remove such
building; or if such building is capable of being made safe by repairs, to
repair and make safe and sanitary, or to demolish and remove at the owner's
option.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Notices And Orders: All notices and orders shall comply with
subsection B of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Failure To Comply: If the owner of a premises fails to comply with a
demolition order within the time prescribed, the Code official shall cause the
building to be demolished and removed, either through an available public
agency or by contract or arrangement with private persons, and the cost of such
demolition and removal shall be charged against the real estate upon which the
building is located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Salvage Materials: When any building has been ordered demolished and
removed, the Governing Body or other designated officer under said contract or
arrangement aforesaid shall have the right to sell the salvage and valuable
materials at the highest price obtainable. The net proceeds of such sale, after
deducting the expenses of such demolition and removal, shall be promptly
remitted with a report of such sale or transaction, including the items of
expense and the amounts deducted, to the person who is entitled thereto,
subject to any order of a court. If such a surplus does not remain to be turned
over, the report shall so state.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Appeals: Any person directly affected by a decision of the Code
official or a notice or order issued under this chapter shall have the right to
appeal to the City Council, provided that a written request for appeal is filed
within fifteen (15) days after the day the decision, notice, or order was
served. A request for appeal shall be based on a claim that the true intent of
this chapter or the rules, legally adopted thereunder, have been incorrectly
interpreted, the provisions of this chapter do not fully apply, or the
requirements of this chapter are adequately satisfied by other means.
Enforcement of the notice or order (other than an imminent danger notice) shall
be stayed during the appeals process. The appeal will be heard by the City
Council at its next meeting, occurring at least fifteen (15) days after the
filing of the request for appeal, at which time the appellant or the
appellant's representative, may appear and make a presentation to the City
Council. After the hearing, the Council may uphold, reverse, or modify the
requirements of the notice or order based upon the provisions of this chapter
and upon the protection of the public health, sanitation, safety, or general
welfare of the community at large. The City Council shall issue written
findings and determination within thirty one (31) days of the hearing. (Ord.
152, 1-14-2019)
TITLE 10
ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
TITLE AND APPLICATION
SECTION:
10-1-1: Authority
10-1-2: Title And Effective Date
10-1-3: Purpose
10-1-4: Intent
10-1-5: Relation To The Adopted Comprehensive Plan
10-1-6: Territorial Applicability
10-1-7: Standard Requirements
10-1-8: Separability
10-1-1: AUTHORITY:
This title is enacted pursuant to authority granted by the Municipal Planning
Act, Minnesota Statutes, sections 462.351 to 462.363. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-1-2: TITLE AND EFFECTIVE DATE:
The official title of this title is the ZONING ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FRAZEE,
MINNESOTA and is referred to within this document as either the "Zoning
Ordinance" or "title". This title shall become effective following its passage
and publication in the City's official newspaper. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-1-3: PURPOSE:
This title is for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, and general
welfare of the public, and to implement the City's Comprehensive Plan. This is
achieved by regulating the location and size of buildings and other structures;
the percentage of each lot which may be occupied; the size of yards and other
open spaces; the density and distribution of population; the uses of buildings
and structures for trade, industry, residence, recreation, public activities,
or other purposes; and the use of land for trade, industry, residence,
recreation, agriculture, forestry, soil conservation, water supply
conservation, conservation of shorelands, flood control, or other purposes, and
establishing standards and procedures regulating such uses. As residential
development is considered the cornerstone of development in the City, this
title will ensure the availability of an ample supply of land to meet the
diverse housing needs of all residents in a compact and orderly manner. As
housing growth occurs, the opportunity for commercial and light industrial
development must also be accommodated. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-1-4: INTENT:
To protect the public, such provisions are intended to provide for adequate
light and air; safety from fire and other danger; prevent unhealthy
concentrations of population; provide ample parking facilities; regulate the
location and operation of businesses, industries, dwellings, and buildings for
other specified purposes; preserve and stabilize property values by providing
for orderly and compatible development of the various land uses; provide for
administration of this title; provide for amendments hereto; and provide for
official recording of this title and all amendments hereto. (Ord. 156, 6-13-
2020)
10-1-5: RELATION TO THE ADOPTED COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
Administration, enforcement, and amendment of this title will be accomplished
with due consideration of the recommendations contained in the City's
Comprehensive Plan, as adopted and periodically amended by the Planning
Commission and City Council. The City Council recognizes the Comprehensive Plan
as the principle guidance for regulating land use and development in accordance
with the policies and purpose set forth in this title. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-1-6: TERRITORIAL APPLICABILITY:
As of the effective date of this title, the use of all land and every structure
within the incorporated limits of the City of Frazee shall be subject to the
provisions within this title. Additionally, any identified joint powers
agreements and/or orderly annexation agreements may be subject to regulations
established within this title or the Subdivision Ordinance. (Ord. 156, 6-13-
2020)
10-1-7: STANDARD REQUIREMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â More Restrictive Provisions To Govern: Where the conditions imposed by
any provisions of this title are either more restrictive or less restrictive
than comparable conditions imposed by any law, ordinance, code, statute,
resolution, or regulation, the regulations which are more restrictive or impose
higher standards or requirements shall prevail.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Interpretation: In their interpretation and application, the provisions
of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of
the health, safety, and general welfare of the public.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Conformity With This Title: No building or structure shall be erected,
converted, enlarged, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or altered, and no
building, structure, or land shall be used for any purpose, nor in any manner,
which is not in conformity with the provisions of this title and without a
building permit being issued when required by this code.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Building Occupancy: Except as herein provided, no building, structure,
or premises shall hereafter be used or occupied and no building permit shall be
granted that does not conform to the requirements of this title.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Nonreduction Of Yards Or Lots: No yard or lot existing at the time of
passage of this title shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum
requirements set forth herein. Yards or lots created after the effective date
of this title shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this
title.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Regulation Application: These regulations shall not abrogate any
easement, covenant, or any other private agreement where such is legally
enforceable, provided that where the regulations of this title are more
restrictive, or impose higher standards or requirements than such easements,
covenants, or other private agreements, the requirements of this title shall be
controlling. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-1-8: SEPARABILITY:
It is hereby declared to be the intention of the City that the provisions of
this title are separable in accordance with the following:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision of
this title invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other provisions of this
title not specifically included in said judgment.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this title to a particular property, building,
or other structure, such judgment shall not affect the application of said
provision to any other property, building, or structure not specifically
included in said judgment. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Rules
10-2-2: Definitions
10-2-1: RULES:
For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms used shall be
interpreted as defined herein:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The word "person" includes an owner or representative of the owner,
firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company, or corporation,
as well as an individual.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The present tense includes the future tense, the singular includes the
plural, and the plural includes the singular.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â For terminology not defined in this title, "Webster's Third New
International Dictionary", or its most current descendent, will be used to
define such terms. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Wherever the following words and terms occur in this title, they shall be
interpreted as herein defined.
ABUTTING:      Making contact with another property.
               A building or use which, at a minimum, meets the following: (1) is subordinate to
ACCESSORY      and serves an existing principal building or principal use; (2) is subordinate in
STRUCTURE OR   area, extent, or purpose to the principal structure or use; and (3) is located on
USE:           the same legal lot, parcel, or property as the principal use. Examples of
               accessory uses are private garages, carports, storage sheds, playhouses, and
               swimming pools.
ADDITION:      A physical enlargement of an existing structure.
               The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming, dairying, pasturage
               agriculture, horticulture, floriculture, viticulture, animal and poultry
AGRICULTURE:   husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or storing the
               produce; provided, however, that the operation of any such accessory uses shall
               be secondary to that of normal agricultural activities.
ALLEY:         A public right-of-way primarily designed to serve as secondary access to the side
               or rear of those properties whose principle frontage is on the street.
ANIMAL         Any lot or premises, not a kennel, in which strayed or abandoned animals are
SHELTER:       cared for on a temporary basis until claimed, adopted, or euthanized.
               Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or transmitting
ANTENNA:       electromagnetic waves, including, but not limited to, directional antennas, such
               as panels, microwave dishes, and omnidirectional antennas, such as whip antennas.
               A portion of a building consisting of a room or suite of rooms which is designed
APARTMENT:     for, intended for, or used as a residence by a single-family or an individual,
               and is equipped with cooking facilities. Includes dwelling unit and efficiency
               unit.
               The owner, their agent, or person having legal control, ownership, and/or
APPLICANT:     interest in land for whom the provisions of this title are being considered or
               reviewed.
               A facility which offers a service or package of services pursuant to Minnesota
               Statutes, chapter 144G that meets the minimum requirements set forth within
ASSISTED       Minnesota Statutes, section 144G.03. These services may include assistance with
LIVING         self-administration of medication, assistance with daily living activities
FACILITY:      (bathing, grooming, dressing, eating, transferring, continence care, or
               toileting), twenty-four (24) hour access to health professionals, and other
               specific requirements established under law.
               Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor or base
BASEMENT:      subgrade (below ground level) on all four (4) sides, regardless of the depth of
               excavation below ground level.
               A single-family dwelling in which four (4) or fewer transient guest rooms are
BED AND        rented on a nightly basis for periods of time less than a week and where at least
BREAKFAST:     one (1) meal is offered in connection with the provision of sleeping
               accommodations only.
BOARD OF       The Frazee Board of Adjustment.
ADJUSTMENT:
BOUNDARY LINE: Any line indicating the bounds or limits of any tract or parcel of land; also a
               line separating the various use districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map.
               The use of land, topography, difference in elevation, space, fences, or landscape
BUFFER:        plantings to screen or partially screen a use or property from the vision of
               another use or property.
BUILDING:      Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of persons, animals,
               chattel, or movable property of any kind, and includes any structure.
BUILDING CODE: The Minnesota State Building Code.
BUILDING       A distance to be measured from the mean ground level to the uppermost point on
HEIGHT:        all roof types.
BUILDING       Representative of the City who has been appointed by the City Council and/or
OFFICIAL:      assigned the responsibility of enforcing provisions of the Minnesota State
               Building Code.
BUILDING       The minimum horizontal distance between the building and the lot line.
SETBACK:
BUSINESS:      Any establishment, occupation, employment, or enterprise where merchandise is
               manufactured, exhibited, or sold, or where services are offered for compensation.
               An area or tract of land on which accommodations for temporary occupancy are
CAMPGROUND:    located or may be placed, including cabins, tents, and major recreational
               equipment, and which is primarily used for recreational purposes and retains an
               open air or natural character.
               A business licensed under Minnesota Statutes. chapter 342, including a cannabis
               microbusiness. cannabis mezzobusiness. cannabis cultivator. cannabis
CANNABIS       manufacturer. cannabis retailer, cannabis wholesaler. cannabis transporter,
BUSINESS:      cannabis testing facility. cannabis event organizer. cannabis delivery service.
               medical cannabis cultivator, medical cannabis processor, medical cannabis
               retailer, and medical cannabis combination business.
CARPORT:       A canopy supported by posts, either ornamental or solid, and completely open on
               one (1) or more sides.
CEMETERY:      A site or property set apart for the burial or interment of the dead.
CHURCH:        A place that people regularly attend to participate in or hold religious
               services, meetings, and other related activities.
CITY:          City of Frazee.
CITY CODE:     The City of Frazee's code of ordinances.
CITY COUNCIL:  The Frazee City Council.
CLINIC:        Any establishment where human patients are examined and treated by doctors or
               dentists, but not hospitalized overnight.
               A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members paying annual dues,
CLUB OR LODGE: with the use of the premises being restricted to members and their guests. It
               shall be permissible to serve food and meals on such premises, provided that
               adequate dining space and kitchen facilities are available.
COMMERCIAL     Bowling alley, cart track, jump center, golf course, billiard (pool) hall,
RECREATION:    vehicle racing or amusement, dance hall, firearms range, campgrounds, park, and
               similar uses.
COMMON OPEN    Any open space, including private parks, nature areas, playgrounds, trails, and
SPACE:         recreational buildings and structures, which is an integral part of a development
               and is not owned on an individual basis by each owner of the dwelling unit.
COMPREHENSIVE  A general plan for land use, housing, transportation, and community facilities
PLAN:          prepared and maintained by the Planning Commission and City Council for the
               municipality.
CONDITIONAL    A use, other than those permitted, which must meet certain conditions to ensure
USE:           compatibility with the land uses in a zoning district before such a use may be
               approved and permitted by the City Council.
               A permit issued by the City Council in accordance with procedures specified in
CONDITIONAL    this title, as a flexibility device to enable the City Council to assign
USE PERMIT:    dimensions to a proposed use or conditions surrounding it after consideration of
               adjacent uses and their functions and the special problems which the proposed use
               presents.
               A contract entered into between an owner and the holder of a mortgage
COVENANT:      constituting a restriction on the use of property within a subdivision for the
               benefit of the property owners.
               A residence or facility licensed by the Department of Human Services under
               Minnesota Administrative Rules, chapter 9502 and Minnesota Statutes, chapter 245A
               in which children/adults receive care, maintenance, and supervision for less than
DAY CARE:      twenty-four (24) hours per day. Minnesota Rules, chapter 9502 is inclusive of
               family day care (subp. 11) and group family day care (subp. 13), and Minnesota
               Statutes, chapter 245A is inclusive of adult day care or family adult care
               services (subd. 2A).
               A building or portion thereof, designated exclusively for residential occupancy,
               including single-family, two-family, twin home, townhome, and multiple-family
               dwellings, but not including hotels, motels, or boarding houses.
               A.Â Â Â DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A dwelling designed for or occupied by one (1)
               family only.
               B.Â Â Â DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A dwelling designed for or occupied by two (2)
               families only, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each. This
               would include single-family homes with an apartment. A two-family dwelling with a
               rooming unit(s) shall be considered and classified as a multiple-family dwelling.
               C.Â Â Â DWELLING, TWIN HOME: A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of
DWELLING:      two (2) in which each unit extends from the foundation to the roof and having
               open space on three (3) sides of each unit. Each single-family dwelling unit
               shall be considered to be a separate building.
               D.Â Â Â DWELLING, TOWNHOME: A dwelling consisting of three (3) or more dwelling
               units of not more than two (2) stories each and contiguous to each other only by
               the sharing of one (1) common wall; such structures to be of the town or row
               houses type, as contrasted to multiple dwelling apartments. No single dwelling
               shall contain in excess of eight (8) dwelling units and each dwelling unit shall
               have separate and individual front and rear entrances.
               E.Â Â Â DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A dwelling designed for or occupied by three (3)
               or more families living independently of each other, with separate housekeeping
               and cooking facilities for each dwelling unit.
               A residential building or portion thereof intended for occupancy by one (1) or
DWELLING UNIT: more persons with facilities for living, sleeping, cooking, and eating, but not
               including hotels, motels, nursing homes, seasonal cabins, boarding or rooming
               houses, tourist homes, or trailers.
EASEMENT:      A grant by an owner of land for a specific use by persons other than the owner.
EROSION:       The wearing away of land surface by the action of natural elements.
               The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance by public utilities or
               municipal or other governmental agencies of underground or overhead
               communication, gas, electrical, steam or water transmission, or distribution
ESSENTIAL      systems, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduit cables,
SERVICE:       fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, street signs, and
               other similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith, reasonably
               necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or
               municipal or other governmental agencies or for the health, safety, and/or
               general welfare of the public.
ESSENTIAL      Structures and buildings necessary for the operation of essential services,
SERVICE        including, but not limited to, telephone buildings, telephone booths, gas
STRUCTURES:    regulator stations, substations, electrical stations, water tanks, and lift
               stations.
EXTERIOR       The storage of goods, materials, equipment, manufactured products, and similar
STORAGE:       items not fully enclosed by a building.
               An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage, adoption, or
FAMILY:        a group of not more than four (4) persons who need not be related by blood or
               marriage living together in a dwelling unit.
               An unplatted tract of land having one (1) quarter-quarter section containing ten
               (10) acres or more, or two (2) or more abutting parcels under the same ownership
FARM:          having an area of approximately ten (10) acres, measured from the centerline of
               abutting roads, for purposes of residential density usually with a house and barn
               and other buildings, on which crops and often livestock are raised for a source
               of livelihood.
               An unplatted tract of land generally consisting of ten (10) or less acres in size
FARM; HOBBY:   with a house and accessory structures, on which crops and often livestock are
               raised, but not as a principal source of income. A hobby farm shall not qualify
               for exemptions provided in this title for farms.
               Process of operating a farm for the growing and harvesting of crops which shall
FARMING:       include those necessary buildings, related to operating the farm, and keeping of
               common domestic farm animals.
FENCE:         A fence is defined for the purpose of this title as any partition, structure,
               wall, or gate erected as a dividing mark, barrier, or enclosure.
FLOOR AREA,    The sum of the gross horizontal area of all the floors of a building utilized for
GROSS:         principal and accessory uses.
               An accessory structure situated on the same lot as the principal structure, and
               designed for the private storage of motor vehicles owned by the occupant of the
GARAGE,        principal structure. No facilities for mechanical service or repair of a
PRIVATE:       commercial or public nature are provided in the private garage. Such garage may
               be attached to the principal structure or detached from the principal structure.
               When a private garage is attached to a principal structure, it shall be
               considered part of the principal structure for setback and yard purposes.
GRADE          The lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground, paving, or
(ADJACENT      sidewalk within the area between the building and the property line, or when the
GROUND         property line is more than five (5) feet from the building, between the building
ELEVATION):    and the line five (5) feet from the building.
HOME           Any occupation or profession engaged in by the occupant of a residential dwelling
OCCUPATION:    unit, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the residential use of the
               premises and does not change the character of said premises.
               Any building or portion thereof occupied as the more or less temporary abiding
               place of individuals and containing six (6) or more guest rooms, used,
HOTEL:         designated, or intended to be used, let, or hired out to be occupied, or which
               are occupied by six (6) or more individuals for compensation, whether the
               compensation be paid directly or indirectly.
IMPERVIOUS     An artificial or natural surface through which water, air, or roots cannot
SURFACE:       penetrate.
INTERIM USE:   A temporary use of property until a particular date, until the occurrence of a
               particular event, or until zoning regulations no longer permit.
               An establishment licensed to operate a facility housing dogs, cats, or other
KENNEL:        household pets, and where grooming, breeding, boarding, training, or selling of
               animals is conducted as a business or commercial use.
KENNEL,        Any accessory use arranged for the care and sheltering of household pets
PRIVATE:       belonging to the owner of the property on which the kennel is located.
               A space or berth on the same lot with a building, or contiguous to a group of
LOADING SPACE: buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading or
               unloading merchandise or materials and which abuts upon a street, alley, or other
               appropriate means of access.
               A parcel or portion of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
LOT:           requirements for use, coverage, and area; and to provide such yards and other
               open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved
               public street.
LOT AREA:      The total horizontal area within the lot lines, exclusive of any portion of the
               right-of-way of any public roadway.
LOT COVERAGE:  The area of the lot covered by impervious surface.
               The shortest horizontal distance between the front lot line and the rear lot line
LOT DEPTH:     measured from a ninety (90) degree angle from the street right-of-way within the
               lot boundaries.
               The property line bounding a lot, except where any portion of a lot extends into
               the public right-of-way, the line of such public right-of-way shall be the lot
               line.
               A.Â Â Â FRONT LOT LINE: That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
               public street. In the case of a corner lot, it shall be the shortest dimension on
               a public street. If the dimensions of a corner lot are equal, the front line
LOT LINE:      shall be designated by the owner and filed with the Zoning Administrator.
               B.Â Â Â LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line.
               If the rear lot line is less than ten feet (10') in length, or if the lot forms a
               point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be a line of ten feet (10') in length
               within the lot, parallel to, and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
               C.Â Â Â LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or rear
               lot line.
               The distance between the side lot lines, measured along the setback line as
LOT WIDTH:     established by this title, or if no setback line is established, the distance
               between the side lot lines along the measured street line.
               Applies to either:
               A.Â Â Â A factory-built single-family structure built and transported in sections to
               a permanent site and not intended for additional transportation once it has been
MANUFACTURED   placed on a permanent site.
HOME:          B.Â Â Â A transportable, factory-built home, designed to be used as a year around
               residential dwelling. Such structure has wheels or axles permanently attached to
               its frame. Such structures built prior to June 15, 1976 (Federal Manufactured
               Home Construction and Safety Standards), are referred to as mobile homes.
MANUFACTURED   A section of ground in a manufactured home park designated as the location of one
HOME LOT:      (1) housing unit, and all other necessary improvements required by this title.
               Any park, court, lot, parcel, or tract of land, designed, improved, maintained,
               or intended for the purpose of supplying a location for manufactured home units
MANUFACTURED   or upon which any manufactured homes are parked. It shall include all buildings
HOME PARK:     used or intended for use as part of the equipment thereof, whether a charge is
               made for the use of the manufactured home park or not. Also referred to as mobile
               home park or trailer park.
               A transportable, factory built home built prior to June 15, 1976 (Federal
MOBILE HOME:   Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards), and designed to be used as
               a year around residential dwelling. Such structure has wheels or axles
               permanently attached to its frame.
               A building or group of detached, semi-detached, or attached buildings containing
MOTEL/MOTOR    guest rooms or units, each of which has a separate entrance directly from the
HOTEL:         outside of the building or corridor, with garage or parking space conveniently
               located next to each unit, and used or intended to be used primarily for the
               accommodation of transient guests traveling by automobile.
NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURE,     A building, structure, premise, lot, or use unlawfully established and in
USE, OR LOT;   violation of regulations applicable at the time of development or initiation.
ILLEGAL:
NONCONFORMING  A building, structure, premise, lot, or use lawfully established prior to the
STRUCTURE,     adoption of this title, or any amendment thereto, which does not now conform with
USE, OR LOT;   the applicable conditions or provisions of this title for the zoning district in
LEGAL:         which the structure or use is located.
NURSERY,       A business growing and selling trees, flowering and decorative plants, and
LANDSCAPE:     shrubs.
               The purpose for which a building is used or intended to be used. The term shall
OCCUPANCY:     also include the building or room housing such use. Change of occupancy is not
               intended to include change of tenants or proprietors.
OFFICIAL       The map incorporated into this title by reference as part hereof, designating the
ZONING MAP:    zoning districts.
               Any open area not covered by structures, but not limited to, the following uses:
               required or established yard areas, parking areas, sidewalks, trails, recreation
OPEN SPACE:    areas, water bodies, shorelands, watercourses, wetlands, groundwater recharge
               areas, floodplain, floodway, flood fringe, erodible slopes, woodland, and soils
               with severe limitation for development.
               An individual, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust, or any
OWNER:         other legal ownership interest in land, buildings, structures, dwelling units, or
               other property.
PARCEL:        An individual lot or tract of land.
PARKING SPACE, An off-street parking space. Space for maneuvering incidental to parking or
OFF-STREET:    unparking shall not encroach upon any public way. Every off-street parking space
               shall be accessible from a public way.
PARTY WALL:    A common wall which divides two (2) independent structures by a fire wall.
               Criterion established for setbacks, fencing, landscaping, screening, drainage,
PERFORMANCE    accessory structures, outside storage, and to control noise, odor, toxic or
STANDARD:      noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or other nuisance elements
               generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
               A use which may be lawfully established in a particular zoning district, provided
PERMITTED USE: it conforms with all requirements, regulations, and performance standards (if
               any) of such district.
PERSON:        Any individual or legal entity.
PLANNING       The Frazee Planning Commission.
COMMISSION:
PRINCIPAL      The structure in which the principal use of the lot on which the structure is
STRUCTURE:     located is conducted.
PRINCIPAL USE: The main use of land or buildings, as distinguished from subordinate or accessory
               uses. A principal use may be either permitted or conditional.
PUBLIC:        Pertaining to a municipality, school district, county, state, or other
               governmental unit.
PUBLIC USE:    A use owned or operated by a municipality, school district, county, state, or
               other governmental unit.
PUBLICATION:   Notice placed in the City's official newspaper.
RECREATIONAL   Motorized and non-motorized vehicles primarily used for temporary living quarters
VEHICLE:       during recreational activities, including, but not limited to, motor homes,
               campers, tent trailers, travel trailers, and tiny houses.
RESTAURANT:    An establishment which serves food to be consumed primarily while seated at
               tables or booths within the building.
RETAIL:        The sale of items directly to the consumer.
               A building used for the purpose of elementary or secondary education, which meets
SCHOOL:        all the requirements of compulsory education laws of the State of Minnesota, and
               not providing residential accommodations.
               The minimum horizontal distances between a structure and the property line
               nearest thereto. For purposes of earth shelter buildings only, above grade
SETBACK:       portions shall be used in determining setback requirements. Distances are to be
               measured from the most outwardly extended portion of the structure at ground
               level, except as provided herein after.
SHOPPING       An integrated grouping of commercial stores under single ownership or control.
CENTER:
               Any letter, word, symbol, device, poster, picture, statuary, reading matter of
               representation in the nature of an advertisement, announcement, message, or
               visual communication, whether painted, pasted, printed, affixed, or constructed,
SIGN:          which is displayed outdoors for informational purposes. It shall include, but not
               be limited to, the following types and purposes of signs: advertising, area
               identification, business, directional, flashing, free-standing, illuminated,
               institutional, nameplate, pylon, rotating, swinging, temporary, portable, and
               traffic control.
               A map drawn to scale depicting the development of a tract of land, including, but
SITE PLAN:     not limited to, the location and relationship of structures, streets, driveways,
               recreation areas, utilities, landscaping, and walkways, as related to a proposed
               development.
               That portion of a building included between the upper surface of a floor and the
               upper surface of the floor or roof next above. It is measured as the vertical
STORY:         distance from top to top of two (2) successive tiers of beams or finished floor
               surfaces and, for the topmost story, from the top of the floor finish to the top
               of the ceiling joists or, where there is not a ceiling, to the top of the roof
               rafters.
               A public right-of-way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a highway,
               thoroughfare, arterial, parkway, collector, through way, road, avenue, boulevard,
STREET:        lane, place, drive, court, or otherwise designated, which has been dedicated to
               the public for public use and which affords principal means of access to abutting
               property.
STRUCTURAL     Any change, other than incidental repairs, which would prolong, or modify the
ALTERATION:    life of the supporting members of a structure, such as bearing walls, columns,
               beams, girders, or foundations.
               Anything which is built, constructed, or erected; an edifice or building of any
               kind; or any piece of work artificially built up and/or composed of parts joined
STRUCTURE:     together in some definite manner whether temporary or permanent in character.
               Among other things, structures including buildings, manufactured homes, walls,
               fences, towers, antennas, swimming pools, billboards, and poster panels.
SUBDIVISION    The Frazee Subdivision Ordinance.
ORDINANCE:
SURVEYOR:      A land surveyor registered under Minnesota State laws.
SWIMMING POOL: A structure designed to be used for swimming.
               The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is designated,
USE:           arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied, utilized, or maintained, and
               shall include the performance of such activity, as defined by the performance
               standards of this title.
               The adjustment by the City Council of the literal provisions of this title in
VARIANCE:      cases where the literal provisions would cause undue hardship because of physical
               circumstances unique to an individual property. Variances shall be limited to
               height, bulk, density, and yard requirements.
               An establishment engaged in the display, sale, leasing, or rental of new or used
VEHICLE SALES  vehicles. Vehicles include, but are not limited to, automobiles, light trucks,
AND RENTALS:   vans, trailers, recreational vehicles, motorcycles, personal watercraft, utility
               trailers, all-terrain vehicles, and mobile/manufactured homes.
VETERINARY     The uses concerned with the diagnosis, treatment, and care of animals, including
CLINIC:        animal or pet hospitals.
WAREHOUSING:   The storage of materials or equipment within an enclosed building.
WETLAND:       "Wetland" has the meaning given under Minnesota Rules, part 8420.0111.
               An open space on the same lot with a building or structure, unoccupied and
               unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
               otherwise provided herein.
               A.Â Â Â FRONT YARD: The space extending between side lot lines from the front
               property line and the building setback line.
               B.Â Â Â REAR YARD: A space extending between the rear line of the principal
               structure and the rear line of the lot and extending the full width of the lot.
               C.Â Â Â SIDE YARD: A space between the building and the side line of the lot and
YARD:          extending from the lot line to the rear yard. In the case of through lots, side
               yards shall extend from the rear lines of the front yards required. In the case
               of corner lots with normal frontage, there will be only one (1) side yard,
               adjacent to the interior lot. In the case of the corner lots with reversed
               frontage, the yards remaining after the full and half depth front yards have been
               established shall be considered to be side yards. Width of required side yards
               shall be measured at right angles to a straight line joining the ends of front
               and rear lot lines on the same side of the lot. The inner side yard line of a
               required side yard shall be parallel to the straight line so established.
ZONING         The duly appointed officer charged with the administration and enforcement of
ADMINISTRATOR: this title.
ZONING         A change authorized by the City either in the allowed use within a zoning
AMENDMENT:     district or in the boundaries of the district.
               An area or areas of the City, as delineated on the Official Zoning Map, set aside
ZONING         for specific uses with specific regulations and provisions for use and
DISTRICT:      development, as defined by this title. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020; amd. Ord. 164, 12-
               19-2022; Ord. 175, 8-14-2024)
Â 
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION
SECTION:
10-3-1: Zoning Administrator
10-3-2: Planning Commission
10-3-3: Board Of Adjustment
10-3-4: City Council
10-3-5: Building Permits
10-3-6: Conditional Use Permits
10-3-7: Interim Use Permits
10-3-8: Amendments
10-3-9: Variances
10-3-10: Nonconforming Lots, Structures, And Uses
10-3-11: Appeals
10-3-12: Establishment Of Fees, Charges, And Expenses
10-3-13: Penalties, Violations, And Enforcement
10-3-1: ZONING ADMINISTRATOR:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Designation: The City Council shall designate a Zoning Administrator to
administer the Zoning Ordinance. The Zoning Administer may be assisted by other
persons, as authorized by the City Council.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Responsibilities: The Zoning Administrator shall have the following
responsibilities related to the administration of the Zoning Ordinance:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Maintain permanent and current records of all associated maps,
amendments, conditional uses, interim uses, variances, and appeals;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Maintain a record of all conditional use, interim use, and variance
applications, all nonconforming uses, and all notices of violation,
discontinuance, or removal in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of
the Zoning Ordinance and, on request, provide such information for public
inspection;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Forward any application for appeal of any administrative order or
final decision made in the administration of the Zoning Ordinance, to the Board
of Adjustment;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Receive and process any application for an amendment, conditional
use, and interim use, and forward it to the Planning Commission for its
recommendation to the City Council;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Receive and process any application for a variance and forward it to
the Board of Adjustment;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Make a determination of compliance with the Zoning Ordinance on all
applications for a building permit and a certificate of occupancy;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Authorize minor adjustments to approved development site plans;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Render interpretations of the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance;
and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Enforce the Zoning Ordinance. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-3-2: PLANNING COMMISSION:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Members And Terms: The Planning Commission shall consist of five (5)
members appointed by the City Council. At least one (1) of the members shall be
an appointed member of the City Council. Members of the Planning Commission
shall serve in such capacity without compensation of any manner. Appointments
to the Planning Commission shall be made annually by the City Council, with the
term commencing on February 1 in the year of appointment. Members of the
Planning Commission may be removed at any time by a majority vote of the City
Council.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Quorum And Voting: A quorum of the Planning Commission shall consist of
three-fifths (3/5) members of the regular membership. A quorum must exist
before the Planning Commission can take any official action on behalf of the
City. All actions of the Planning Commission require a majority vote by a
quorum of the Planning Commission, unless otherwise set forth in this title. A
member of the Planning Commission shall be excused from voting on a particular
issue if it has been determined that the member would have a conflict of
interest or would be violating any codes of ethics.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Responsibilities: The Planning Commission shall have the following
responsibilities related to the administration of the Zoning Ordinance:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Hear and make recommendations to the City Council regarding all
applications for a conditional use permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Hear and make recommendations to the City Council regarding all
applications for an interim use permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Hear and make recommendations to the City Council regarding all
applications for an amendment to the Zoning Ordinance;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Review and prepare recommendations on any proposed change to the
City's planning policies and plans, including the Zoning Ordinance and
Comprehensive Plan;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Review the Zoning Ordinance from time to time and make
recommendations to the City Council for such changes to the Zoning Ordinance as
the Planning Commission may deem appropriate; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Hear and make recommendations on any other matter referred to it by
the City Council.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Records: The City shall keep files, records, and notices of all
meetings; which shall be available for public inspection.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Chairperson: The Planning Commission shall elect a chairperson from
among its appointed members for the term of one (1) year, starting in February.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Meetings: The Planning Commission shall hold at least one (1) regular
meeting each month. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-3-3: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Members: The members of the Planning Commission shall serve as the
Board of Adjustment.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Quorum And Voting: A quorum of the Board of Adjustment shall consist of
three-fifths (3/5) members of the regular membership. A quorum must exist
before the Board of Adjustment can take any official action on behalf of the
City. All actions of the Board of Adjustment require a majority vote by a
quorum of the Board of Adjustment, unless otherwise set forth in this title. A
member of the Board of Adjustment shall be excused from voting on a particular
issue if it has been determined that the member would have a conflict of
interest or would be violating any codes of ethics.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Responsibilities: The Board of Adjustment shall have the following
responsibilities related to the administration of the Zoning Ordinance:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Hear and decide applications for appeal of any administrative order
or final decision made in the administration of the Zoning Ordinance;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Approve, approve with conditions, or deny variance requests;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Maintain a record of its proceedings, including the minutes of the
meetings, its findings, and the action taken on each matter heard by it. The
record shall be maintained by the City; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The Board of Adjustment shall have any such other powers given to it
by State law.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Records: The City shall keep files, records, and notices of all
meetings; which shall be available for public inspection.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Chairperson: The chairperson of the Planning Commission shall serve as
the chairperson of the Board of Adjustment.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Meetings: The Board of Adjustment shall meet as needed, based on the
availability of agenda items. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-3-4: CITY COUNCIL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Responsibilities: The City Council shall have the following
responsibilities related to the administration of the Zoning Ordinance:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Designate a Zoning Administrator;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Hold public hearings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Approve, approve with conditions, or deny applications for a
conditional use permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Approve, approve with conditions, or deny applications for an
interim use permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Approve or deny applications for an amendment to the Zoning
Ordinance; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Take such other actions not delegated to other bodies that may be
desirable and necessary to implement the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Records: The City shall keep files, records, and notices of all
meetings; which shall be available for public inspection. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-3-5: BUILDING PERMITS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Building Permit Required: An owner or authorized agent who intends to
construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a
building or structure, or to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove,
convert, or replace any gas, mechanical, electrical, plumbing system, or other
equipment, the installation of which is regulated by the Minnesota State
Building Code; or cause any such work to be done, shall first make application
to the building official and obtain the required permit.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Zoning Administrator Review: The Zoning Administrator shall have the
authority to review all building permit applications and related plans in order
to determine compliance with the Zoning Ordinance. No building permit shall be
issued without the Zoning Administrator's certification that the plans conform
to the Zoning Ordinance.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Site Plan: All applications for building permits shall be accompanied
by a site plan containing the following information, unless determined to be
not applicable by the Zoning Administrator:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General Information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The applicant's name, address, telephone number, and interest in
the property;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The owner's name, address, and telephone number, if different
than the applicant, and the owner's signed consent to the filing of the
application;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The street address and legal description of the property;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The zoning classification, zoning district boundaries, and
present use of the property; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The proposed title of the project, and the names, addresses, and
telephone numbers of the architect, landscape architect, planner, or engineer
on the project.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Preliminary Development Drawing:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The location, dimensions, and total area of the site;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The location, dimensions, floor area, type of construction, and
use of each proposed building or structure;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Floor plan showing specific uses within the building;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The number, the size and type of dwelling units in each building,
and the overall dwelling unit density;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The proposed treatment of open spaces and the exterior surfaces
of all structures, with sketches of proposed landscaping and structures,
including typical elevations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The number, location, and dimensions of parking spaces and
loading docks, with means of ingress and egress;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â The proposed traffic circulation pattern within the area of the
development, including the location and description of public improvements to
be installed, including any streets and access easements;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â The location and purpose of any existing or proposed dedication
or easement;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â The general drainage plan for the development tract;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â The location and dimensions of adjacent properties, abutting
public right-of-ways and easements, and utilities serving the site;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â Significant topographical or physical features of the site,
including existing trees;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â l.Â Â Â Wetland delineations for all wetlands present on the site; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â m.Â Â Â The location and proposed treatment of any historical structure
or other historical design element or feature.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Construction And Use Pursuant To Approved Permits/Plans: Building
permits issued on the basis of applications and plans approved by the Zoning
Administrator authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction set forth
in such approved applications and plans. Use, arrangement, or construction
which is inconsistent with the approved building permit shall be a violation of
this title. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-3-6: CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of a conditional use permit is to provide a
discretionary approval process for proposed uses which have unique or widely
varying operating characteristics. The procedure is intended to ensure that
proposed conditional uses will not have a significant adverse impact on
surrounding uses or on the health, safety, and general welfare of the
community.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Initiating A Request: Any person owning property, or having documented
interest therein, may initiate a request for a conditional use permit for that
property in conformance with the provisions of this title. The property owner
or designated representative shall complete the required application for a
conditional use permit, which may be obtained from the Zoning Administrator.
The Planning Commission may, upon their own motion, initiate a conditional use
permit request in accordance with the provisions of this title.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Filing An Application: The application shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator who shall refer the application, together with comments, thereon
to the Planning Commission. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee, as
established by a City Council resolution. The City, after receipt and review of
the application, may request additional information from the applicant which it
deems necessary for a proper review by the Planning Commission. The request for
a conditional use permit shall be placed on the agenda of a regular or special
meeting of the Planning Commission in a timely manner, and in accordance with
state statute.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Public Hearing: Upon receipt of an application for a conditional use
permit, the Zoning Administrator shall set the time and date for a public
hearing. Notice of said hearing shall consist of a legal property description
and/or a summary description of the request, and be published in a newspaper of
general circulation at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. In the case of
zoning amendments involving changes in zoning district boundaries affecting an
area of five (5) acres or less, a written notice of said hearing shall be
mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing to all owners of land within
three hundred fifty feet (350') of the property to which the amendment relates.
A copy of the hearing notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to
which the notice was sent shall be attested and made a part of the record of
the proceeding. Failure of a property owner to receive said notice, or failure
to provide mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the
notice, shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this
title, provided a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with the notice
requirements of this title.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Consideration Of Request: Providing the applicant has furnished all
information, as requested by the Zoning Administrator, and provided the
prescribed notification requirements can be met, the Planning Commission shall
consider the application at its next meeting.
Â Â Â Unless an extension is granted, the City Council must take action on the
application within sixty (60) days from the date an application is received and
deemed complete by the City. An application for a conditional use permit may be
granted by a majority vote of the City Council.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Standards: The Planning Commission shall only recommend the granting of
the conditional use permit, granting the conditional use permit subject to
conditions, or denying the conditional use permit based on written findings of
fact with regard to each of the standards set forth below and, where
applicable, any special standards for specific uses set forth in the provisions
of a specific zoning district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â It is a conditional use listed for the particular zoning district;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â It is in keeping with the planning policies of the City and this
title, as amended from time to time;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â It does not interfere with or diminish the use of property in the
immediate vicinity;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â It can be adequately served by public facilities and services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â It does not cause undue traffic congestion;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â It preserves significant historical and architectural resources;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â It preserves significant natural and environmental features;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â It will not cause a negative cumulative effect, when considered in
conjunction with the cumulative effect of various special uses of all types on
the immediate neighborhood, and the effect of the proposed type of conditional
use upon the City as a whole;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â It complies with all other applicable regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located and other applicable ordinances, except to the
extent such regulations have been modified through the planned development
process or the granting of a variance; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â It will not jeopardize the health, safety, and/or general welfare
of the public.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Conditions Of Conditional Uses: The City Council, upon recommendation
of the Planning Commission, may impose such conditions and limitations
concerning the use, construction, character, location, landscaping, screening,
parking, and other matters relating to the purpose and objectives of this
section upon the premises benefitted by a conditional use. In addition, the
City Council may require a performance guarantee to be submitted to the City in
order to ensure compliance with the terms of approval.
Â Â Â The conditions and limitations of approval may be more restrictive than
standards outlined in this section, but shall not be less restrictive. Such
conditions and limitations may be necessary or appropriate to prevent or
minimize adverse effects upon other property and improvements in the vicinity
of the proposed property or on public facilities. Such conditions shall be
expressly set forth in the resolution granting the conditional use permit.
Violation of any such condition or limitation shall be a violation of this
section and shall constitute grounds for revocation of the conditional use
permit.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â No Presumption Of Approval: The listing of a conditional use within
each zoning district does not constitute an assurance or presumption that such
conditional use will be approved. Rather, each proposed conditional use shall
be evaluated on an individual basis in order to determine whether approval of
the special use is appropriate at the particular location and in the particular
manner proposed.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Effect Of Approval: The approval of a proposed conditional use by the
City Council shall not authorize the development, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, or moving of any building or structure, but shall merely authorize
the preparation, filing, and processing of applications for such permits or
approvals as may be required by the regulation of the City, including, but not
limited to, a building permit and a certificate of occupancy.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Cancellation, Termination, Or Expiration: Where applicable, unless
otherwise specified by the City Council at the time it is authorized, a
conditional use permit shall expire if the applicant fails to utilize such
conditional use permit within one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of
its issuance.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Appeal: Any person, taxpayer, department, board, or bureau of the City
aggrieved by the decision of the City Council shall have the right to seek
review within forty-five (45) days of the decision with a court of record of
such decision in the manner provided by the laws of the State of Minnesota, and
particularly Minnesota Statutes, Chapter 462, as such statute may be from time
to time amended, supplemented, or replaced. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-3-7: INTERIM USE PERMITS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of an interim use permit is to allow a temporary
use that is not designated as a permitted or conditional use, but is acceptable
for a limited period of time, subject to certain conditions. The City Council
may approve an interim use of property, as defined and authorized by Minnesota
Statutes, section 462.3597.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Initiating A Request: Any person owning property, or having documented
interest therein, may initiate a request for an interim use permit for that
property in conformance with the provisions of this title. The property owner
or designated representative shall complete the required application for an
interim use permit, which may be obtained from the Zoning Administrator.
Â Â Â The Planning Commission may, upon their own motion, initiate an interim use
permit request in accordance with the provisions of this title.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Filing An Application: The application shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator who shall refer the application, together with comments, thereon
to the Planning Commission. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee, as
established by a City Council resolution. The City, after receipt and review of
the application, may request additional information from the applicant which it
deems necessary for a proper review by the Planning Commission. The request for
an interim use permit shall be placed on the agenda of a regular or special
meeting of the Planning Commission in a timely manner, and in accordance with
state statute.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Public Hearing: Upon receipt of an application for an interim use
permit, the Zoning Administrator shall set the time and date for a public
hearing. Notice of said hearing shall consist of a legal property description
and/or a summary description of the request, and be published in a newspaper of
general circulation at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. In the case of
zoning amendments involving changes in zoning district boundaries affecting an
area of five (5) acres or less, a written notice of said hearing shall be
mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing to all owners of land within
three hundred fifty feet (350') of the property to which the amendment relates.
A copy of the hearing notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to
which the notice was sent shall be attested and made a part of the record of
the proceeding. Failure of a property owner to receive said notice, or failure
to provide mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the
notice, shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this
title, provided a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with the notice
requirements of this title.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Consideration Of Request: Providing the applicant has furnished all
information, as requested by the Zoning Administrator, and provided the
prescribed notification requirements can be met, the Planning Commission shall
consider the application at its next meeting.
Â Â Â Unless an extension is granted, the City Council must take action on the
application within sixty (60) days from the date an application is received and
deemed complete by the City. An application for an interim use permit may be
granted by a majority vote of the City Council.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Standards: The Planning Commission shall only recommend the granting of
the interim use permit, granting the interim use permit subject to conditions,
or denying the interim use permit based on written findings of fact with regard
to each of the standards set forth below and, where applicable, any special
standards for specific uses set forth in the provisions of a specific zoning
district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The proposed use meets all applicable zoning regulations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The proposed use will terminate upon a date or event that can be
identified with certainty;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The use will not adversely impact nearby properties through nuisance
noise, traffic, dust, or unsightliness, and will not otherwise impact the
health, safety, and general welfare of the community;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The proposed use will not impose additional costs on the public if
it is necessary for the public to take the property in the future; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The proposed use will be subjected to, by agreement with the
property owner, any conditions that the City Council deems appropriate for
permission of the proposed interim use.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Conditions Of Approval: In permitting a new interim use permit or
amending an existing interim use permit, the Planning Commission may recommend
and the City Council may impose, in addition to the standards and requirements
expressly specified by this section, additional conditions which the Planning
Commission or City Council consider necessary to protect the best interest of
the surrounding area or the community as a whole. These conditions may include,
but are not limited to, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Increasing the required lot size or yard dimension;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Limiting the height, size, or location of buildings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Increasing the number of required off-street parking spaces;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Requiring diking, fencing, screening, landscaping, or other
facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Designation of open space;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â An approved performance bond or letter of credit to ensure the
restoration of the site and surrounding area after termination of the use; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Annual review and inspection, if deemed appropriate by the City
Council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Any change involving structural alterations, enlargement, intensification
of use, or similar changes not specifically permitted by the interim use permit
shall require an amended interim use permit and all procedures shall apply as
if a new permit were being issued. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a
record of all interim use permits, including information on the use, location,
and conditions imposed by the City Council, time limits, review dates, and such
other information as may be appropriate.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â No Presumption Of Approval: The listing of an interim use within each
zoning district does not constitute an assurance or presumption that such
interim use will be approved. Rather, each proposed interim use shall be
evaluated on an individual basis in order to determine whether approval of the
special use is appropriate at the particular location and in the particular
manner proposed.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Effect Of Approval: The approval of a proposed interim use by the City
Council shall not authorize the development, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, or moving of any building or structure, but shall merely authorize
the preparation, filing, and processing of applications for such permits or
approvals as may be required by the regulation of the City, including, but not
limited to, a building permit and a certificate of occupancy.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Termination: An approved interim use permit shall terminate upon the
occurrence of any of the following events:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The termination date or termination event specified in the interim
use permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Any violation of the conditions under which the interim use was
approved;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â A change in this title which would render the interim use non-
conforming;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The interim use has been discontinued for at least one (1) year; or
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Where applicable, unless otherwise specified by the City Council at
the time it is authorized, an interim use permit shall expire if the applicant
fails to utilize such interim use permit within one hundred eighty (180) days
from the date of its issuance.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Appeal: Any person, taxpayer, department, board, or bureau of the City
aggrieved by the decision of the City Council shall have the right to seek
review within forty-five (45) days of the decision with a court of record of
such decision in the manner provided by the laws of the State of Minnesota, and
particularly Minnesota Statutes, chapter 462 as such statute may be from time
to time amended, supplemented, or replaced. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-3-8: AMENDMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The regulations, restrictions, and zoning districts in this
title may, from time to time, be amended, supplemented, changed, modified, or
repealed; provided that no action be taken until after a public hearing in
relation thereto, at which parties with interest and citizens shall have an
opportunity to be heard. These changes may be to the text, Official Zoning Map,
or any other component of this title.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Initiating A Request: The Planning Commission may, upon their own
motion, initiate a zoning amendment request in accordance with the provisions
of this title. Any person owning property, or having documented interest
therein, may initiate a request for a zoning amendment for that property in
conformance with the provisions of this title. The property owner or designated
representative shall complete the required application for a zoning amendment,
which may be obtained from the Zoning Administrator.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Filing An Application: The application shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator who shall refer the application, together with comments, thereon
to the Planning Commission. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee, as
established by a City Council resolution. The Zoning Administrator, after
receipt and review of the application, may request additional information from
the applicant which is deemed necessary for a proper review by the Planning
Commission. The request for a zoning amendment shall be placed on the agenda of
a regular or special meeting of the Planning Commission in a timely manner, and
in accordance with state statute.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Public Hearing: Upon receipt of an application for a zoning amendment,
the Zoning Administrator shall set the time and date for a public hearing.
Notice of said hearing shall consist of a legal property description and/or a
summary description of the request, and be published in a newspaper of general
circulation at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. In the case of zoning
amendments involving changes in zoning district boundaries affecting an area of
five (5) acres or less, a written notice of said hearing shall be mailed at
least ten (10) days prior to the hearing to all owners of land within three
hundred fifty feet (350') of the property to which the amendment relates. A
copy of the hearing notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to
which the notice was sent shall be attested and made a part of the record of
the proceeding. Failure of a property owner to receive said notice, or failure
to provide mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the
notice, shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this
title, provided a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with the notice
requirements of this title.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Consideration Of Request: Providing the applicant has furnished all
information, as requested by the Zoning Administrator, and provided the
prescribed notification requirements can be met, the Planning Commission shall
consider the application at its next meeting.
Â Â Â Unless an extension is granted, the City Council must take action on the
zoning amendment request within sixty (60) days from the date an application is
received and deemed complete by the City. Approval of a proposed amendment
shall require a majority vote of the City Council, with the exception of any
Official Zoning Map amendment from a residential zoning district to either a
commercial or industrial zoning district, which shall require a four-fifths (4/
5) vote of the City Council.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Effective Date: The amendment shall not become effective until such
time as the City Council approves an ordinance reflecting said amendment and
after said ordinance is published in a newspaper of general circulation.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Appeals: Any person, taxpayer, department, board, or bureau of the City
aggrieved by the decision of the City Council shall have the right to seek
review within forty-five (45) days of the decision with a court of record of
such decision in the manner provided by the laws of the State of Minnesota, and
particularly Minnesota Statutes, chapter 462 as such statute may be from time
to time amended, supplemented, or replaced. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-3-9: VARIANCES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The variance process is intended to provide limited relief
from the requirements of this title in those circumstances where strict
application of a particular requirement will create a practical difficulty or
unnecessary hardship prohibiting the use of land in a manner otherwise allowed
under this title. It is not intended that variances be granted for the
establishment or expansion of a use within a zoning district where it is not
permitted.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Initiating A Request: Any person owning property, or having documented
interest therein, may initiate a request for a variance for that property in
conformance with the provisions of this title. The property owner or designated
representative shall complete the required application for a variance, which
may be obtained from the Zoning Administrator.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Filing An Application: The property owner or designated representative
shall complete the required application for a variance, which may be obtained
from the Zoning Administrator. Such application shall be accompanied by a fee,
as established by a City Council resolution. The application for a variance
shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator, after
review of the application, shall have the authority to request additional
information from the applicant which is deemed necessary for a proper review by
the Board of Adjustment. The request for a variance shall be placed on the
agenda of the Board of Adjustment to occur no later than sixty (60) days from
the date of submission.
Â Â Â Variance requests for the same property, of similar intent, shall not be
heard within one hundred eighty (180) days of a previous request, unless it can
be demonstrated to the Zoning Administrator that the conditions for the
variance have changed.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Public Hearing: Upon receipt of an application for a variance, the
Zoning Administrator shall set the time and date for the public hearing. Notice
of said hearing shall consist of a legal property description and a summary
description of the request, published in a newspaper of general circulation at
least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. In the case of variances affecting an
area of five (5) acres or less, a written notice of said hearing shall be
mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing to all owners of land within
three hundred fifty feet (350') of the property to which the variance relates.
A copy of the hearing notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to
which the notice was sent shall be attested and made a part of the record of
the proceeding. Failure of a property owner to receive said notice, or failure
to provide mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the
notice, shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this
title, provided a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with the notice
requirements of this title.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Consideration Of Request By Board Of Adjustment: Unless an extension is
granted, the Board of Adjustment shall make findings of fact and shall decide
whether to approve, conditionally approve, or deny the request for variance
within sixty (60) days from the date an application is received and deemed
complete by the City.
Â Â Â A variance to this title shall not be granted unless approved by a majority
of the members of the Board of Adjustment. A variance from any provision within
this title shall not be granted unless the Board of Adjustment makes findings,
based upon competent material and substantial evidence, that the request
complies with the following factors that must be satisfied in constituting an
undue hardship:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The property cannot be put to a reasonable use if used under
conditions allowed by this title;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the
property and not created by the landowner; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
locality.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Conditions Of Approval: In authorizing a variance, the Board of
Adjustment may, in addition to the specific conditions of approval called for
in this title, attach such other conditions regarding the location, character,
landscaping, or treatment reasonably necessary to further the intent and spirit
of this title and the protection of the public interest.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Cancellation, Termination, Or Expiration: Unless otherwise specified by
the Board of Adjustment at the time it is authorized, a variance shall expire
if the applicant fails to utilize such variance within one hundred eighty (180)
days from the date of its issuance.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Appeals: To appeal a decision of the Board of Adjustment, a written
notice of appeal must be filed with the City within forty-five (45) days of the
decision of the Board of Adjustment. Appeals to the City Council and appeals
from the City Council's decision shall be in accordance with the procedures for
appeals from the Board of Adjustment set forth in this title.
Â Â Â Any person, taxpayer, department, board, or bureau of the City aggrieved by
the decision of the City Council shall have the right to seek review within
forty-five (45) days of the decision with a court of record of such decision in
the manner provided by the laws of the State of Minnesota, and particularly
Minnesota Statutes, chapter 462 as such statute may be from time to time
amended, supplemented, or replaced. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-3-10: NONCONFORMING LOTS, STRUCTURES, AND USES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: It shall be deemed nonconforming when, within the zoning
districts established by this title or amendments that may later be adopted,
there exists lots, structures, and uses of land which were lawful before this
title was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated, or
restricted under the terms of this title or future amendments. This title
permits these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, modified/
altered (other than repair, replacement, restoration, maintenance, or
improvement activities), or otherwise discontinued. Such uses are declared by
this title to be incompatible with permitted uses in the zoning districts
involved. It is further the intent of this title that nonconformities shall not
be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding
other structures or uses not permitted in the zoning district in which it is
located; consistent with Minnesota Statute. Furthermore, this title does not
recognize and/or allow expansion of a nonconforming use by ordinance, pursuant
to discretion authorized to municipalities within Minnesota Statutes, section
462.357, subdivision 1e.
Â Â Â Nothing herein contained shall require any change in plans, construction, or
designated use of a building or structure for which a building permit has been
issued to prior to the effective date of this title, provided, however, that
the entire building shall be completed according to such plans as filed within
one hundred eighty (180) days from the date of issuance of said permit.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Nonconforming Lots: Subdivided lots of record in existence prior to the
date of this title, which do not meet the minimum width, area, and/or frontage
requirements of this title, shall be considered legally nonconforming and
developable lots, provided all other regulations of this title are satisfied
and an approved public access is provided to the lot. If two (2) or more
nonconforming lots are contiguous and under single ownership at the time of the
enactment of this title, then such lots shall be combined for the purposes of
development in order to satisfy the requirements of this title.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Nonconforming Structures: Where a lawful structure exists at the
effective date of this title that could not be built under the terms of this
title by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards,
elevation, or other characteristics of the structure, or its location on the
lot, such structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
subject to the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General Provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â No such structure may be enlarged, expanded, or otherwise altered
in a way that increases its nonconformity, noninclusive of repair, replacement,
restoration, maintenance, or improvement activities, as allowed under Minnesota
Statutes, section 462.357, subdivision 1e.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of
more than fifty percent (50%) of its estimated market value at time of
destruction, and no building permit has been applied for within one hundred
eighty (180) days of when the property was damaged, the municipality may impose
reasonable conditions upon a zoning or building permit in order to mitigate any
newly created impact on the adjacent property or water body.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Should such structure be moved for any reason, for any distance,
it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the zoning district in which
it is located after it is moved.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â When a nonconforming use is discontinued or abandoned for twelve
(12) months, the nonconforming use shall not be resumed, unless otherwise
authorized under this title.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Nothing in this title shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoration of a structure to a safe condition. Any structure
or component thereof declared unsafe by any official charged with protecting
the public's safety, shall be addressed by the owner in a timely manner.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Nonconforming Uses Of Land: Where, at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this title, lawful use of land exists that is made no longer
permissible under the terms of this title, as enacted or amended, such use may
be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General Provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or extended to occupy
a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of this title.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to
any other portion of the lot or parcel.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than twelve (12) months, any subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the regulations specified by this title for the zoning district in
which such land is located. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-3-11: APPEALS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Applicability: An appeal shall only be applicable to an interpretation
of legislative intent of provisions of this title. Opinions and evaluations, as
it pertains to the impact or result of a request, are not subject to the appeal
procedure.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Proceedings: The Board of Adjustment may adopt rules necessary to the
conduct and processing of appeals, while maintaining consistency with the
provisions of this title. Meetings shall be scheduled as determined necessary
by the Zoning Administrator or Chairperson and shall be duly coordinated with
the Board of Adjustment's agendas, as applicable.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Filing An Appeal: Appeals forwarded to the Board of Adjustment
concerning interpretation or administration of this title must be filed with
the City by the property owner or their agent within forty-five (45) days of
the rendered decision.
Â Â Â Any appeal filed shall be comprehensive and include all matters subject to
question. Such appeals must be filed with the Zoning Administrator and shall
specifically identify the framework of the appeal, including Code citations, as
applicable. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Board of
Adjustment all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken. Subsequent appeals filed by the same person which are intended
to cause unjustifiable delay shall not be accepted by the City.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Specific Responsibilities: It is the intent of this title that all
questions or interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the
Zoning Administrator and that such questions shall be presented to the Board of
Adjustment only on appeal from the decision of the Zoning Administrator, and
that recourse from the decisions of the Board of Adjustment shall be forwarded
to the City Council and, if necessary, to the courts, as provided by law and
particularly by Minnesota Statutes, chapter 462. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-3-12: ESTABLISHMENT OF FEES, CHARGES, AND EXPENSES:
The City Council shall establish, by resolution, a schedule of fees, charges,
and expenses, and a collection procedure for applications for building permits,
conditional use permits, interim use permits, amendments, variances, appeals,
and other matters pertaining to the Zoning Ordinance. The schedule of fees
shall be available at the office of the Zoning Administrator. In addition, the
applicant shall be responsible for any fees associated with the recording of
any permits with the County. It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning
Administrator to record any permit with the County. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-3-13: PENALTIES, VIOLATIONS, AND ENFORCEMENT:
Any person who violates this title or fails to comply with any of its
requirements after written notice by the Zoning Administrator, allowing
reasonable time to comply, shall be subject in accordance with the provisions
of Minnesota Statutes, sections 412.231 and 609.034 to a fine not to exceed one
thousand dollars ($1,000.00) or ninety (90) days in jail, or both. Each act of
violation and every day upon which a violation continues or occurs constitutes
a separate offense and may be prosecuted as such. Said penalty provisions shall
be automatically amended, supplemented, or replaced by any amendment,
supplement, or replacement to the penalty provisions of Minnesota Statutes,
sections 412.231 and 609.034.
The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part thereof, any
architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation, may each be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided of the
provisions of this title.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the City from taking such other lawful
action, as is necessary, to prevent or remedy any violation or penalize the
violator. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Zoning Districts
10-4-2: Uses Not Provided Within Zoning Districts
10-4-3: Official Zoning Map
10-4-4: Transition Zone (TZ) District
10-4-5: Single And Two-Family Residential (R-1) District
10-4-6: Limited Multiple-Family Residential (R-2) District
10-4-7: Multiple-Family Residential (R-3) District
10-4-8: Downtown Commercial (C-1) District
10-4-9: Service Commercial (C-2) District
10-4-10: General Commercial (C-3) District
10-4-11: Industrial (I) District
10-4-1: ZONING DISTRICTS:
For the purpose of this title, the City of Frazee is hereby divided into eight
(8) zoning districts as shown on the Official Zoning Map and as provided
hereinafter. This section and subsequent sections set forth information
pertaining to the zoning districts, including statements of purpose, permitted
uses, accessory uses, conditional uses, interim uses, and dimensional
standards. Land use regulations, building regulations, and development
standards set forth within this title shall be enforced uniformly within each
district. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-4-2: USES NOT PROVIDED WITHIN ZONING DISTRICTS:
Whenever in any zoning district a use is neither specifically permitted nor
denied, the use shall be considered prohibited. In such cases, the City Council
or the Planning Commission, on their own initiative or upon request, may
conduct a study to determine if the use is acceptable and, if so, what zoning
district would be most appropriate. The City Council, Planning Commission, or
property owner, upon receipt of the study shall, if appropriate, initiate an
amendment to this title to provide for the particular use under consideration
or shall find that the use is not compatible for development within the City.
(Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-4-3: OFFICIAL ZONING MAP:
The Official Zoning Map, which together with all related and supporting
information, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be part of this
Zoning Ordinance. The Official Zoning Map shall be posted and made available
for examination at City Hall. The Official Zoning Map shall be the final
authority as to the current zoning status of land, buildings, and other
structures located in the City.
It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to maintain and
update the Official Zoning Map and to record each amendment thereto within
thirty (30) days after the official publication of an ordinance approving an
amendment. No unauthorized changes shall be made to the Official Zoning Map or
information shown thereon, except in conformity with the procedures set forth
in this title.
The Official Zoning Map shall be identified by the signature of the Mayor,
attested by the City Clerk/Administrator, and bearing the following words:
"This is the Official Zoning Map of the City of Frazee, Minnesota", together
with the date of adoption. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-4-4: TRANSITION ZONE (TZ) DISTRICT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The Transition Zone (TZ) District is established primarily for
those annexed, unplatted areas within the City that have not been zoned for
development, or are undergoing a transition from, in most cases, agricultural
to urban uses. The transition is contingent upon development plans, proper
timing, availability of public utilities and services, and compatibility with
the City's Comprehensive Plan and Future Land Use Map. As these conditions for
development are met, a more conventional urban zoning district will replace the
Transition Zone (TZ) District.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the Transition Zone
(TZ) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Residential Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Single-family detached dwellings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Non-Residential Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Farming (e.g., crop, tree, and hobby farms) and agricultural-
related uses, but not including livestock operations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Essential services and related structures; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Nurseries, greenhouses, and landscape material operations,
including retail and wholesale operations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Public, Institutional, And Civic Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Open spaces, athletic fields, parks, playgrounds, and public
gardens.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory structures and
uses in the Transition Zone (TZ) District; accessory structures and uses are
further regulated in chapter 5 of this title:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Accessory Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Private garages, parking spaces, and carports;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Home occupations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Non-commercial gardens, greenhouses, and conservatories;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Private kennels;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Private recreational facilities, such as swimming pools;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Storage of recreational vehicles and related equipment, as
further regulated by the City Code; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Tool sheds, structures, and similar buildings for storage of
domestic supplies and non-commercial recreational equipment.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in the Transition
Zone (TZ) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Conditional Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Bed and breakfast establishments;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Cemeteries;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Kennels, animal hospitals (with overnight care), and similar
uses/facilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Non-farm related open or outdoor sales, services, and rental as a
principal or accessory use;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Public recreational areas/facilities, including golf courses,
country clubs, swimming pools, ice arenas/rinks, driving ranges, and other
similar areas/facilities; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Other uses, as specified in chapter 5 of this title.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Interim Uses: The following are interim uses in the Transition Zone
(TZ) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Interim Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Use of transportable shipping and storage containers; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Other temporary uses determined by the Planning Commission to be
of the same general character as the permitted and conditional uses above and
found not to be detrimental to existing uses and the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Lot And Setback Requirements: The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the Transition Zone (TZ) District, subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this title. All lot
and setback requirements shall be measured as defined in this title. The
property owner shall be solely responsible for locating the property lines of
the lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Lot Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Lot Area: Two (2) acres.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Lot Width: One hundred fifty feet (150').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Lot Depth: Three hundred feet (300').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Setback Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Front Yard:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Principal Structures: Twenty feet (20').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Side Yard:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Principal Structures: Eight feet (8'), except on corner lots,
which shall not be less than twelve feet (12') on the side abutting the street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Accessory Structures: Five feet (5') minimum, unless a garage
entrance faces into a street, in which case the setback will be eighteen feet
(18') to accommodate a vehicle from encroaching into public right-of-way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Rear Yard:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Principal Structures: Twenty-five feet (25').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Accessory Structures: Five feet (5') minimum, unless a garage
entrance faces into a street, in which case the setback will be eighteen feet
(18') to accommodate a vehicle from encroaching into public right-of-way.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Maximum Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Principal Structures: Thirty-five feet (35').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Accessory Structures: One (1) story, not exceeding twelve feet
(12') in sidewall height, as measured from the bottom of the sill plate to the
top of the sill plate, and a maximum total height of twenty feet (20').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Farm Buildings: None.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Maximum Lot Coverage: The total sum of all impervious surfaces shall
not exceed ten percent (10%) of the lot area.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Minimum Structural Requirements: The following shall be the minimum
structural requirements for all dwellings in the Transition Zone (TZ) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Minimum Width, Length, and Area: The minimum width shall be twenty-
four feet (24') over at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the length. The
minimum length shall be thirty feet (30'). The minimum total square footage
shall be seven hundred (700) square feet. The foregoing dimensions shall not
take into account overhangs or other projections.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Foundations: Except for manufactured homes with an approved
anchoring system as described in subpart 3, all dwellings shall be placed on a
permanent perimeter foundation of concrete, masonry, or treated wood
construction, and shall include frost footings in compliance with the Minnesota
State Building Code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Manufactured Homes: Manufactured homes, as defined in this title,
may be located in the Transition Zone (TZ) District provided that they comply
with all other provisions of this section, as amended, and provided further,
that they are constructed in accordance with Minnesota Statutes, sections
327.31 to 327.35, as they may be amended from time to time. All manufactured
homes located within the City must be secured by an approved anchoring system,
as defined by the manufactured home building code (Minnesota Rules chapter
1350). Mobile homes, as defined in this title, shall be prohibited within the
City. Existing mobile homes may remain as a nonconforming use.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Minimum Exterior Requirements: The exterior wall surfaces of all
structures in the Transition Zone (TZ) District, excluding accessory structures
of two hundred (200) square feet or less, shall be of the following materials
or combination of materials: wood, log, brick, stone, stucco, glass,
maintenance free vinyl or steel, concrete panels, decorative block, or other
material, as approved by the Planning Commission. The use of the following
exterior wall materials are prohibited for all structures in the Transition
Zone (TZ) District: plain concrete block (whether painted or unpainted),
canvas, and plastic or vinyl sheeting.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Zoning Upon Annexation: All territory which may hereafter be annexed to
the City shall be considered to be zoned Transition Zone (TZ) until such time
as the zoning designation is changed by action of the City Council. (Ord. 156,
6-13-2020; amd. Ord. 164, 12-19-2022)
10-4-5: SINGLE AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-1) DISTRICT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The Single and Two-Family Residential (R-1) District is
established to encourage the preservation of residential neighborhoods
characterized primarily by single and two-family dwellings of lower density and
to preserve undeveloped lands for similar types of residential development.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the Single and Two-
Family Residential (R-1) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Residential Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Single-family detached dwellings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Two-family dwellings; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Twin homes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Non-Residential Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Essential services and related structures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Public, Institutional, and Civic Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Libraries;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Open spaces, athletic fields, parks, playgrounds, and public
gardens; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Public swimming pools.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory structures and
uses in the Single and Two-Family Residential (R-1) District; accessory
structures and uses are further regulated in chapter 10-5 of this title:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Accessory Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Private garages, parking spaces, and carports;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Home occupations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Non-commercial gardens, greenhouses, and conservatories;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Private kennels;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Private recreational facilities, such as swimming pools;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Storage of recreational vehicles and related equipment, as
further regulated by the City Code; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Tool sheds, structures, and similar buildings for storage of
domestic supplies and non-commercial recreational equipment.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in the Single and
Two-Family Residential (R-1) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Conditional Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Bed and breakfast establishments;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Campgrounds;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Cemeteries;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Churches and places of worship;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Day care facilities (principal use), when not operated as a home
occupation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Government buildings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Manufactured home parks, as regulated by this title;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Planned Unit Developments, as regulated by this title;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Primary and secondary schools;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Public assembly structures and facilities; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â Other uses, as specified in chapter 10-5 of this title.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Interim Uses: The following are interim uses in the Single and Two-
Family Residential (R-1) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Interim Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Use of transportable shipping and storage containers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Subordinate classroom structures; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Other temporary uses determined by the Planning Commission to be
of the same general character as the permitted and conditional uses above and
found not to be detrimental to existing uses and the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Lot And Setback Requirements: The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the Single and Two-Family Residential (R-1) District, subject to
the additional requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this
title. All lot and setback requirements shall be measured as defined in this
title. The property owner shall be solely responsible for locating the property
lines of the lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Lot Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Lot Area:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Single-Family Detached Dwellings: Five thousand (5,000)
square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Two-Family Dwellings: Seven thousand (7,000) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Twin Homes: Three thousand five hundred (3,500) square feet
per dwelling unit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Other Principal Structures: Five thousand (5,000) square
feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Lot Width:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Single-Family Detached Dwellings: Fifty feet (50').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Two-Family Dwellings: Seventy feet (70').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Twin Homes: Thirty-five feet (35') per dwelling unit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Other Principal Structures: Fifty feet (50').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Lot Depth: One hundred feet (100').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Setback Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Front Yard:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Principal Structures: Twenty feet (20').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Side Yard:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Principal Structures: Eight feet (8'), except on corner lots,
which shall not be less than twelve feet (12') on the side abutting the street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Accessory Structures: Five feet (5') minimum, unless a garage
entrance faces into a street, in which case the setback will be eighteen feet
(18') to accommodate a vehicle from encroaching into public right-of-way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Rear Yard:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Principal Structures: Twenty-five feet (25').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Accessory Structures: Five feet (5') minimum, unless a garage
entrance faces into a street, in which case the setback will be eighteen feet
(18') to accommodate a vehicle from encroaching into public right-of-way.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Maximum Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Principal Structures: Thirty-five feet (35').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Accessory Structures: One (1) story, not exceeding twelve feet
(12') in sidewall height, as measured from the bottom of the sill plate to the
top of the sill plate, and a maximum total height of twenty feet (20').
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Maximum Lot Coverage: The total sum of all impervious surfaces shall
not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the lot area.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Minimum Structural Requirements: The following shall be the minimum
structural requirements for all dwellings in the Single and Two-Family
Residential (R-1) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Minimum Width, Length, and Area: The minimum width shall be twenty-
four feet (24') over at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the length. The
minimum length shall be thirty feet (30'). The minimum total square footage
shall be seven hundred (700) square feet. The foregoing dimensions shall not
take into account overhangs or other projections.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Foundations: Except for manufactured homes with an approved
anchoring system as described in subpart 3, all dwellings shall be placed on a
permanent perimeter foundation of concrete, masonry, or treated wood
construction, and shall include frost footings in compliance with the Minnesota
State Building Code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Manufactured Homes: Manufactured homes, as defined in this title,
may be located in the Single and Two-Family Residential (R-1) District provided
that they comply with all other provisions of this section, as amended, and
provided further, that they are constructed in accordance with Minnesota
Statutes, sections 327.31 to 327.35, as they may be amended from time to time.
All manufactured homes located within the City must be secured by an approved
anchoring system, as defined by the manufactured home building code (Minnesota
Rules chapter 1350). Mobile homes, as defined in this title, shall be
prohibited within the City. Existing mobile homes may remain as a nonconforming
use.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Minimum Exterior Requirements: The exterior wall surfaces of all
structures in the Single and Two-Family Residential (R-1) District, excluding
accessory structures of two hundred (200) square feet or less, shall be of the
following materials or combination of materials: wood, log, brick, stone,
stucco, glass, maintenance free vinyl or steel, concrete panels, decorative
block, or other material, as approved by the Planning Commission. The use of
the following exterior wall materials are prohibited for all structures in the
Single and Two-Family Residential (R-1) District: plain concrete block (whether
painted or unpainted), canvas, and plastic or vinyl sheeting. (Ord. 156, 6-13-
2020; amd. Ord. 164, 12-19-2022)
10-4-6: LIMITED MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-2) DISTRICT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The Limited Multiple-Family Residential (R-2) District is
established to provide for an area where there will be a compatible variety of
residential densities/dwelling units by allowing single and two-family
dwellings, twin homes, townhomes, and small multiple-family dwellings in the
same zoning district.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the Limited
Multiple-Family Residential (R-2) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Residential Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Single-family detached dwellings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Two-family dwellings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Twin homes; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Townhomes and multiple-family dwellings with up to four (4)
dwelling units per lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Non-Residential Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Essential services and related structures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Public, Institutional, And Civic Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Libraries;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Open spaces, athletic fields, parks, playgrounds, and public
gardens; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Public swimming pools.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory structures and
uses in the Limited Multiple-Family Residential (R-2) District; accessory
structures and uses are further regulated in chapter 10-5 of this title:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Accessory Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Private garages, parking spaces, and carports;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Home occupations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Non-commercial gardens, greenhouses, and conservatories;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Private kennels;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Private recreational facilities, such as swimming pools;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Storage of recreational vehicles and related equipment, as
further regulated by the City Code; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Tool sheds, structures, and similar buildings for storage of
domestic supplies and non-commercial recreational equipment.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in the Limited
Multiple-Family Residential (R-2) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Conditional Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Bed and breakfast establishments;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Campgrounds;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Churches and places of worship;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Day care facilities (principal use), when not operated as a home
occupation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Government buildings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Manufactured home parks, as regulated by this title;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Planned Unit Developments, as regulated by this title;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Primary and secondary schools;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Public assembly structures and facilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Townhomes and multiple-family dwellings with between five (5) and
eight (8) dwelling units per lot; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â Other uses, as specified in chapter 10-5 of this title.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Interim Uses: The following are interim uses in the Limited Multiple-
Family Residential (R-2) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Interim Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Use of transportable shipping and storage containers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Subordinate classroom structures; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Other temporary uses determined by the Planning Commission to be
of the same general character as the permitted and conditional uses above and
found not to be detrimental to existing uses and the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Lot And Setback Requirements: The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the Limited Multiple-Family Residential (R-2) District, subject
to the additional requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this
title. All lot and setback requirements shall be measured as defined in this
title. The property owner shall be solely responsible for locating the property
lines of the lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Lot Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Lot Area:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Single-Family Detached Dwellings: Five thousand (5,000)
square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Two-Family Dwellings: Six thousand (6,000) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Twin Homes And Townhomes: Three thousand (3,000) square feet
per dwelling unit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Multiple-Family Dwellings: Five thousand (5,000) square feet
for the first dwelling unit; two thousand (2,000) square feet for each
additional dwelling unit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Other Principal Structures: Five thousand (5,000) square
feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Lot Width:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Single-Family Detached Dwellings: Fifty feet (50').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Two-Family Dwellings and Multiple-Family Dwellings: Sixty
feet (60').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Twin Homes and Townhomes: Thirty feet (30') per dwelling
unit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Other Principal Structures: Fifty feet (50').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Lot Depth: One hundred feet (100').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Setback Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Front Yard:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Principal Structures: Twenty feet (20').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Side Yard:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Single-Family Detached Dwellings, Two-Family Dwellings, Twin
Homes, And Townhomes: Eight feet (8'), except on corner lots, which shall not
be less than twelve feet (12') on the side abutting the street. No setback is
required for internal party walls.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Multiple-Family Dwellings: Twelve percent (12%) of the lot,
with a minimum of twelve feet (12').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Other Principal Structures: Eight feet (8'), except on corner
lots, which shall not be less than twelve feet (12') on the side abutting the
street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Accessory Structures: Five feet (5') minimum, unless a garage
entrance faces into a street, in which case the setback will be eighteen feet
(18') to accommodate a vehicle from encroaching into public right-of-way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Rear Yard:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Principal Structures: Twenty-five feet (25');
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Accessory Structures: Five feet (5') minimum, unless a garage
entrance faces into a street, in which case the setback will be eighteen feet
(18') to accommodate a vehicle from encroaching into public right-of-way.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Maximum Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Principal Structures: Thirty-five feet (35').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Accessory Structures: One (1) story, not exceeding twelve feet
(12') in sidewall height, as measured from the bottom of the sill plate to the
top of the sill plate, and a maximum total height of twenty feet (20').
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Maximum Lot Coverage: The total sum of all impervious surfaces shall
not exceed thirty five percent (35%) of the lot area.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Minimum Structural Requirements: The following shall be the minimum
structural requirements for all dwellings in the Limited Multiple-Family
Residential (R-2) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Minimum Width, Length, And Area: The minimum width shall be twenty-
four feet (24') over at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the length. The
minimum length shall be thirty feet (30'). The minimum total square footage
shall be seven hundred (700) square feet. The foregoing dimensions shall not
take into account overhangs or other projections.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Foundations: Except for manufactured homes with an approved
anchoring system as described in subpart 3, all dwellings shall be placed on a
permanent perimeter foundation of concrete, masonry, or treated wood
construction, and shall include frost footings in compliance with the Minnesota
State Building Code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Manufactured Homes: Manufactured homes, as defined in this title,
may be located in the Limited Multiple-Family Residential (R-2) District
provided that they comply with all other provisions of this section, as
amended, and provided further, that they are constructed in accordance with
Minnesota Statutes, sections 327.31 to 327.35, as they may be amended from time
to time. All manufactured homes located within the City must be secured by an
approved anchoring system, as defined by the manufactured home building code
(Minnesota Rules chapter 1350). Mobile homes, as defined in this title, shall
be prohibited within the City. Existing mobile homes may remain as a
nonconforming use.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Minimum Exterior Requirements: The exterior wall surfaces of all
structures in the Limited Multiple-Family Residential (R-2) District, excluding
accessory structures of two hundred (200) square feet or less, shall be of the
following materials or combination of materials: wood, log, brick, stone,
stucco, glass, maintenance free vinyl or steel, concrete panels, decorative
block, or other material, as approved by the Planning Commission. The use of
the following exterior wall materials are prohibited for all structures in the
Limited Multiple-Family Residential (R-2) District: plain concrete block
(whether painted or unpainted), canvas, and plastic or vinyl sheeting. (Ord.
156, 6-13-2020; amd. Ord. 164, 12-19-2022)
10-4-7: MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-3) DISTRICT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The Multiple-Family Residential (R-3) District is established
to encourage the development and maintenance of high density residential
neighborhoods characterized by appropriate levels of services and choice of
tenancy. Non-residential uses permitted in this zoning district shall be
limited to those uses and buildings that will provide for the stability and
dignity of the area as a residential neighborhood.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the Multiple-Family
Residential (R-3) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Residential Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Single-family detached dwellings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Two-family dwellings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Twin homes;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Townhomes and multiple-family dwellings with up to twelve (12)
dwelling units per lot; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Retirement, nursing, and assisted living facilities, or similar
uses.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Non-Residential Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Essential services and related structures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Public, Institutional, and Civic Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Libraries;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Open spaces, athletic fields, parks, playgrounds, and public
gardens; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Public swimming pools.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory structures and
uses in the Multiple-Family Residential (R-3) District; accessory structures
and uses are further regulated in chapter 10-5 of this title:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Accessory Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Private garages, parking spaces, and carports;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Home occupations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Non-commercial gardens, greenhouses, and conservatories;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Private kennels;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Private recreational facilities, such as swimming pools;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Storage of recreational vehicles and related equipment, as
further regulated by the City Code; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Tool sheds, structures, and similar buildings for storage of
domestic supplies and non-commercial recreational equipment.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in the Multiple-
Family Residential (R-3) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Conditional Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Bed and breakfast establishments;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Churches and places of worship;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Day care facilities (principal use), when not operated as a home
occupation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Government buildings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Manufactured home parks, as regulated by this title;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Townhomes and multiple-family dwellings with more than twelve
(12) dwelling units per lot;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Planned Unit Developments, as regulated by this title;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Primary and secondary schools;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Public assembly structures and facilities; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Other uses, as specified in chapter 10-5 of this title.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Interim Uses: The following are interim uses in the Multiple-Family
Residential (R-3) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Interim Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Use of transportable shipping and storage containers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Subordinate classroom structures; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Other temporary uses determined by the Planning Commission to be
of the same general character as the permitted and conditional uses above and
found not to be detrimental to existing uses and the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Lot And Setback Requirements: The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the Multiple-Family Residential (R-3) District, subject to the
additional requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this title.
All lot and setback requirements shall be measured as defined in this title.
The property owner shall be solely responsible for locating the property lines
of the lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Lot Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Lot Area:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Single-Family Detached Dwellings: Five thousand (5,000)
square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Two-Family Dwellings: Six thousand (6,000) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Twin Homes And Townhomes: Three thousand (3,000) square feet
per dwelling unit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Multiple-Family Dwellings: Five thousand (5,000) square feet
for the first dwelling unit; two thousand (2,000) square feet for each
additional dwelling unit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Other Principal Structures: Five thousand (5,000) square
feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Lot Width:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Single-Family Detached Dwellings: Fifty feet (50').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Two-Family Dwellings And Multiple-Family Dwellings: Sixty
feet (60').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Twin Homes And Townhomes: Thirty feet (30') per dwelling
unit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Other Principal Structures: Fifty feet (50').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Lot Depth: One hundred feet (100').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Setback Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Front Yard:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Principal Structures: Twenty feet (20').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Side Yard:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Single-Family Detached Dwellings, Two-Family Dwellings, Twin
Homes, And Townhomes: Five feet (5'), except on corner lots, which shall not be
less than twelve feet (12') on the side abutting the street. No setback is
required for internal party walls.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Multiple-Family Dwellings: Twelve percent (12%) of the lot,
with a minimum of twelve feet (12').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Other Principal Structures: Five feet (5'), except on corner
lots, which shall not be less than twelve feet (12') on the side abutting the
street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Accessory Structures: Five feet (5') minimum, unless a garage
entrance faces into a street, in which case the setback will be eighteen feet
(18') to accommodate a vehicle from encroaching into public right-of-way.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Rear Yard:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Principal Structures: Twenty-five feet (25').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Accessory Structures: Five feet (5') minimum, unless a garage
entrance faces into a street, in which case the setback will be eighteen feet
(18') to accommodate a vehicle from encroaching into public right-of-way.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Maximum Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Principal Structures: Thirty-five feet (35');
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Accessory Structures: One (1) story, not exceeding twelve feet
(12') in sidewall height, as measured from the bottom of the sill plate to the
top of the sill plate, and a maximum total height of twenty feet (20').
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Maximum Lot Coverage: The total sum of all impervious surfaces shall
not exceed forty percent (40%) of the lot area.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Minimum Structural Requirements: The following shall be the minimum
structural requirements for all dwellings in the Multiple-Family Residential
(R-3) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Minimum Width, Length, and Area: The minimum width shall be twenty-
four feet (24') over at least seventy-five percent (75%) of the length. The
minimum length shall be thirty feet (30'). The minimum total square footage
shall be seven hundred (700) square feet. The foregoing dimensions shall not
take into account overhangs or other projections.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Foundations: Except for manufactured homes with an approved
anchoring system as described in subpart 3, all dwellings shall be placed on a
permanent perimeter foundation of concrete, masonry, or treated wood
construction, and shall include frost footings in compliance with the Minnesota
State Building Code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Manufactured Homes: Manufactured homes, as defined in this title,
may be located in the Multiple-Family Residential (R-3) District provided that
they comply with all other provisions of this section, as amended, and provided
further, that they are constructed in accordance with Minnesota Statutes,
sections 327.31 to 327.35, as they may be amended from time to time. All
manufactured homes located within the City must be secured by an approved
anchoring system, as defined by the manufactured home building code (Minnesota
Rules chapter 1350). Mobile homes, as defined in this title, shall be
prohibited within the City. Existing mobile homes may remain as a nonconforming
use.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Minimum Exterior Requirements: The exterior wall surfaces of all
structures in the Multiple-Family Residential (R-3) District, excluding
accessory structures of two hundred (200) square feet or less, shall be of the
following materials or combination of materials: wood, log, brick, stone,
stucco, glass, maintenance free vinyl or steel, concrete panels, decorative
block, or other material, as approved by the Planning Commission. The use of
the following exterior wall materials are prohibited for all structures in the
Multiple-Family Residential (R-3) District: plain concrete block (whether
painted or unpainted), canvas, and plastic or vinyl sheeting. (Ord. 156, 6-13-
2020; amd. Ord. 164, 12-19-2022)
10-4-8: DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL (C-1) DISTRICT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The Downtown Commercial (C-1) District is established to
provide a core area of civic and high-quality commercial uses. The intent of
this zoning district is to support commercial uses that provide economic
activity within the incorporated limits of the City and to provide adequate and
safe access to transportation infrastructure.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the Downtown
Commercial (C-1) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Residential Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Apartments, only when located above the ground floor.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Non-Residential Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Agricultural-related Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Farm supply stores.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Animal-Related Services:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Pet stores (no overnight care, no outside pens); and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Veterinary clinics, hospitals, and shelters (no overnight
care, no outside pens).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Auto-Related Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Auto and truck body repair shops;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Auto detailing shops;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Automotive service stations (gasoline/repair/service
facilities);
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Car washes; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Parking surfaces (principal use).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Entertainment And Recreational Activities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Bars, taverns, and nightclubs;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Billiard (pool) halls;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Bowling alleys;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Clubs/lodges;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Community centers/recreation centers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Galleries;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Performing art/dance studios;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â Physical fitness centers/spas; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â Theaters.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Personal Services:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Banks;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Barbers/beauty shops/salons;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Chiropractic clinics;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Drug/pharmaceuticals services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Dry cleaning services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Health clubs;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Mortuaries/funeral homes;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â Laundromats;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â Massage parlors;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (10)Â Â Â Sewing/tailor services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (11)Â Â Â Shoe repair/sales; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (12)Â Â Â Tanning salons.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Professional Services And Commercial Offices:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Accounting services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Architecture/design services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Contracting services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Dental/hygienic services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Electrical/heating/air conditioning/masonry/refrigeration/
roofing services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Engineering services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Gunsmiths;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â Locksmiths;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â Medical clinics/laboratories;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (10)Â Â Â Plumbing/heating/electrical shops/sales
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (11)Â Â Â Real estate services
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (12)Â Â Â Travel agencies; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (13)Â Â Â Upholstery shops.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â General Retail:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Antique/boutique stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Appliance sales;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Apparel/clothing stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Art and photography galleries, studios, and sales;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Bicycle sales and repair;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Bookstores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Business machine and office supply stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â Cafe/coffeehouses;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â Candy, ice cream, and confectionary stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (10)Â Â Â Caterer and retail bakeries;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (11)Â Â Â Department/discount stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (12)Â Â Â Florists;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (13)Â Â Â Furniture, carpeting, and home furnishing stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (14)Â Â Â Gift store/novelty stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (15)Â Â Â Hardware stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (16)Â Â Â Health food/products stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (17)Â Â Â Hobby stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (18)Â Â Â Hunting goods/firearms (with other merchandise sales)
stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (19)Â Â Â Medical appliance sales and fittings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (20)Â Â Â Music/record stores (including instruments);
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (21)Â Â Â Nursery/landscape/garden centers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (22)Â Â Â Painting and decorating stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (23)Â Â Â Pawn shops;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (24)Â Â Â Photo studio and camera equipment sales;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (25)Â Â Â Sporting goods stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (26)Â Â Â Tattoo shops;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (27)Â Â Â Toy/game stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (28)Â Â Â Variety stores; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (29)Â Â Â Video/game rentals and sales.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Food And Beverage Services:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Bars/liquor sales;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Bakeries (goods/retail);
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Dairy product retail stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Delicatessen/prepared food sales;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Grocery/supermarket/fruit and vegetable stores; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Restaurants.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Lodging Facilities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Hotels and motels.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Production And Light Assembly:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Assembly/processing of non-offensive materials (appliances,
electrical equipment; dental, scientific, or other similar uses);
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Building material sales;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Carpentry/cabinets;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Furniture sales/assembly/refinishing; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Lumber yards.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â Other:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Essential services and related structures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Public, Institutional, And Civic Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Government buildings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Libraries;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Parks and other public open green spaces;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Public assembly structures and facilities; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Public recreational facilities, such as swimming pools and tennis
courts.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory structures and
uses in the Downtown Commercial (C-1) District; accessory structures and uses
are further regulated in chapter 10-5 of this title:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Accessory Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Commercial uses within a building/structure that are accessory to
the principal use, but such use shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
gross floor space utilized by the principal use;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Off-street parking;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Off-street loading facilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Outdoor storage, sales, rental, and services; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Stockpiling of black dirt, landscaping rock, and other similar
materials accessory to nurseries, landscape centers, and garden centers.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in the Downtown
Commercial (C-1) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Conditional Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Churches and places of worship;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Agricultural implement dealers/services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Boat, motorcycle, and other recreational vehicle sales and
service, not including wrecking or dismantling;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Vehicle sales and rentals; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Other uses, as specified in chapter 10-5 of this title.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Interim Uses: The following are interim uses in the Downtown Commercial
(C-1) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Interim Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Use of transportable shipping and storage containers; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Other temporary uses determined by the Planning Commission to be
of the same general character as the permitted and conditional uses above and
found not to be detrimental to existing uses and the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Lot And Setback Requirements: The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the Downtown Commercial (C-1) District, subject to the
additional requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this title.
All lot and setback requirements shall be measured as defined in this title.
The property owner shall be solely responsible for locating the property lines
of the lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Lot Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Lot Area: Three thousand (3,000) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Lot Frontage: Twenty-five fee (25').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Setback Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Front Yard: None or as required per building codes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Side Yard: None or as required per building codes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Rear Yard: None or as required per building codes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Transitional Yard: A transitional yard shall be provided anywhere
a lot zoned Downtown Commercial (C-1) District abuts a residential zoning
district. The yard shall conform to the following requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The dimensions of the required transitional yard on the
property located in the Downtown Commercial (C-1) District shall be equal to
the dimensions of the required yard on the residentially zoned property which
is located in closest proximity;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The transitional yard shall extend the entire length of the
abutting residential zoning district boundary; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The transitional yard shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in
depth.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Maximum Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Principal Structures: Fifty feet (50') or three (3) stories.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Accessory Structures: One (1) story, not exceeding twelve feet
(12') in sidewall height, as measured from the bottom of the sill plate to the
top of the sill plate, and a maximum total height of twenty feet (20').
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Maximum Lot Coverage: No restriction.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Building Design And Construction: All buildings within the Downtown
Commercial (C-1) District shall meet the following design and construction
standards.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Exterior Wall Finish:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All exterior wall finishes that are exposed to front or side
streets on any building shall be of the following materials or combination of
materials:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Face brick;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Natural or cultured stone, stucco, and glass panels;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Precast concrete panels or units, if the surfaces have been
integrally treated with an applied decorative material or texture;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Wood, if the surfaces are finished for exterior use or the
wood is of proven exterior durability, such as cedar or redwood;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Metal panels with interlocking, concealed, or tongue-and-
grove seams and approved fasteners, if the exterior surface finish is warranted
by the manufacturer for at least twenty (20) years against blistering, peeling,
cracking, flaking, checking, or chipping; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Other materials, as approved by the Planning Commission.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Additions And Accessory Structures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All subsequent additions to a principal structure and all
accessory structures shall be constructed of the same material as the principal
structure and shall be of the same architectural design and general appearance
as the principal structure. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-4-9: SERVICE COMMERCIAL (C-2) DISTRICT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The Service Commercial (C-2) District is established to
provide suitable areas for a broad range of retail and service businesses which
are adjacent to residential areas and maintain traditional aesthetic
characteristics.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the Service
Commercial (C-2) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Non-Residential Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Animal-Related Services:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Pet stores (no overnight care, no outside pens); and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Veterinary clinics and hospitals (no overnight care, no
outside pens).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Entertainment And Recreational Activities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Galleries;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Physical fitness centers/spas;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Performing art/dance studios; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Theaters.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Personal Services:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Barber/beauty shops/salons;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Chiropractic clinics;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Drug/pharmaceuticals services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Dry cleaning services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Health clubs;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Mortuaries/funeral homes;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Laundromats;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â Sewing/tailor services; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â Shoe repair/sales.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Professional Services And Commercial Offices:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Accounting services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Architecture/design services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Contracting services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Dental/hygienic services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Electrical/heating/air conditioning/masonry/refrigeration/
roofing services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Engineering services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Gunsmiths;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â Locksmiths;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â Medical clinics/laboratories;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (10)Â Â Â Plumbing/heating/electrical shops/sales;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (11)Â Â Â Real estate services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (12)Â Â Â Travel agencies; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (13)Â Â Â Upholstery shops.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â General Retail:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Antique/boutique stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Apparel/clothing stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Art, photography, and similar fine art schools, studios, and
galleries;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Art supply stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Bicycle sales and repair;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Bookstores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Business machine and office supply stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â Cafe/coffeehouses;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â Candy, ice cream, and confectionary stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (10)Â Â Â Caterer and retail bakeries;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (11)Â Â Â Department/discount stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (12)Â Â Â Florists;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (13)Â Â Â Furniture, carpeting, and home furnishing stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (14)Â Â Â Gift store/novelty stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (15)Â Â Â Hardware stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (16)Â Â Â Health food/products stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (17)Â Â Â Hobby stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (18)Â Â Â Hunting goods/firearms (with other merchandise sales)
stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (19)Â Â Â Medical appliance sales and fittings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (20)Â Â Â Music/record stores (including instruments);
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (21)Â Â Â Nursery/landscape/garden centers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (22)Â Â Â Painting and decorating stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (23)Â Â Â Photo studio and camera equipment sales;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (24)Â Â Â Sporting goods stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (25)Â Â Â Toy/game stores;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (26)Â Â Â Variety stores; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (27)Â Â Â Video/game rentals and sales.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Food And Beverage Services:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Delicatessen/prepared food sales; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Fruit and vegetable stores.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Other:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Essential services and related structures.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Public, Institutional, And Civic Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Libraries;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Parks and other public open green spaces; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Public recreational facilities, such as swimming pools and tennis
courts.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory structures and
uses in the Service Commercial (C-2) District; accessory structures and uses
are further regulated in chapter 10-5 of this title:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Accessory Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Commercial uses within a building/structure that are accessory to
the principal use, but such use shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
gross floor space utilized by the principal use;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Off-street parking;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Off-street loading facilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Outdoor storage, sales, rental, and services; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Stockpiling of black dirt, landscaping rock, and other similar
materials accessory to nurseries, landscape centers, and garden centers.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in the Service
Commercial (C-2) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Conditional Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Bed and breakfast establishments;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Day care facilities, when not operated as a home occupation;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Churches and places of worship;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Dwellings, including single-family detached, two-family, and twin
homes, and related home occupations, as regulated by this title;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Government buildings;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Hotels and motels;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Parking surfaces (principal use);
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Primary and secondary schools;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Public assembly structures and facilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Restaurants;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â Youth/community/recreation centers; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â l.Â Â Â Other uses, as specified in chapter 10-5 of this title.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Interim Uses: The following are interim uses in the Service Commercial
(C-2) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Interim Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Use of transportable shipping and storage containers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Subordinate classroom structures; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Other temporary uses determined by the Planning Commission to be
of the same general character as the permitted and conditional uses above and
found not to be detrimental to existing uses and the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Lot And Setback Requirements: The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the Service Commercial (C-2) District, subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this title. All lot
and setback requirements shall be measured as defined in this title. The
property owner shall be solely responsible for locating the property lines of
the lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Lot Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Lot Area: Ten thousand (10,000) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Lot Frontage: Fifty feet (50').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Setback Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Front Yard: There shall be provided a five feet (5') setback to
an impervious parking or storage surface and a twenty feet (20') setback to any
portion of a building, as measured from the property line.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Side Yard: There shall be provided a five feet (5') setback to an
impervious parking or storage surface and a ten feet (10') setback to any
portion of a building, except that on a corner lot, the setback shall be
fifteen feet (15'), as measured from the property line.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Rear Yard: There shall be provided a five foot (5') setback to an
impervious parking or storage surface and a twenty foot (20') setback to any
portion of a building.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Transitional Yard. A transitional yard shall be provided anywhere
a lot zoned Service Commercial (C-2) District abuts a residential zoning
district. The yard shall conform to the following requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The dimensions of the required transitional yard on the
property located in the Service Commercial (C-2) District shall be equal to the
dimensions of the required yard on the residentially zoned property which is
located in closest proximity;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The transitional yard shall extend the entire length of the
abutting residential zoning district boundary;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The transitional yard shall not be less than a setback
required in the Service Commercial (C-2) District; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The transitional yard shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in
depth.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Maximum Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Principal Structures: Thirty-five feet (35').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Accessory Structures: One (1) story, not exceeding twelve feet
(12') in sidewall height, as measured from the bottom of the sill plate to the
top of the sill plate, and a maximum total height of twenty feet (20').
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Maximum Lot Coverage: The total sum of all impervious surfaces shall
not exceed sixty percent (60%) of the lot area.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Building Design And Construction: All buildings within the Service
Commercial (C-2) District shall meet the following design and construction
standards.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Exterior Wall Finish:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All exterior wall finishes that are exposed to front or side
streets on any building shall be of the following materials or combination of
materials:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Face brick;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Natural or cultured stone, stucco, and glass panels;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Precast concrete panels or units, if the surfaces have been
integrally treated with an applied decorative material or texture;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Wood, if the surfaces are finished for exterior use or the
wood is of proven exterior durability, such as cedar or redwood;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Metal panels with interlocking, concealed, or tongue-and-
grove seams and approved fasteners, if the exterior surface finish is warranted
by the manufacturer for at least twenty (20) years against blistering, peeling,
cracking, flaking, checking, or chipping; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Other materials, as approved by the Planning Commission.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Additions And Accessory Structures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All subsequent additions to a principal structure and all
accessory structures shall be constructed of the same material as the principal
structure and shall be of the same architectural design and general appearance
as the principal structure. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020; amd. Ord. 158, 2-15-2021)
10-4-10: GENERAL COMMERCIAL (C-3) DISTRICT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of the General Commercial (C-3) District is to
provide suitable areas for a wide variety of business, retail, and service uses
that have large site requirements and do not adversely impact adjoining land
uses.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the General
Commercial (C-3) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Non-Residential Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All permitted uses in the Downtown Commercial (C-1) and/or
Service Commercial (C-2) Districts.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Other Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Amusement parks and facilities, including miniature golf
courses;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Boat, motorcycle, and other recreational vehicle sales and
service, not including wrecking or dismantling;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Bus depots, including ticket offices and taxi terminals; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Storage/warehouse/rental facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Public, Institutional, And Civic Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Government buildings.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory structures and
uses in the General Commercial (C-3) District; accessory structures and uses
are further regulated in chapter 10-5 of this title:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Accessory Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Commercial uses within a building/structure that are accessory to
the principal use, but such use shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
gross floor space utilized by the principal use;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Off-street parking;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Off-street loading facilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Outdoor storage, sales, rental, and services; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Stockpiling of black dirt, landscaping rock, and other similar
materials accessory to nurseries, landscape centers, and garden centers.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in the General
Commercial (C-3) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Conditional Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Churches and places of worship;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Community convention and civic centers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Drive-in facilities, accessory to a principal use, unless
specifically permitted above;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Kennels and veterinary clinics, animal hospitals, animal
shelters, and pet stores with outside pens or exercise yards which provide
overnight stays;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Meat processing and slaughtering facilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Public or semipublic recreational arenas, auditoriums, fields,
gymnasiums, or similar facilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Shipping and outside storage, when accessory to a permitted or
conditional use;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Shopping centers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Truck stops/drive-thru restaurants; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Other uses, as specified in chapter 10-5 of this title.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Interim Uses: The following are interim uses in the General Commercial
(C-3) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Interim Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Use of transportable shipping and storage containers;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Subordinate classroom structures; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Other temporary uses determined by the Planning Commission to be
of the same general character as the permitted and conditional uses above and
found not to be detrimental to existing uses and the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Lot Requirements And Setbacks: The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the General Commercial (C-3) District, subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this title. All lot
and setback requirements shall be measured as defined in this title. The
property owner shall be solely responsible for locating the property lines of
the lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Lot Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Lot Area: Fifteen thousand (15,000) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Lot Frontage: One hundred feet (100').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Setback Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Front Yard: There shall be provided a five foot (5') setback to
an impervious parking or storage surface and a twenty foot (20') setback to any
portion of a building, as measured from the property line.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Side Yard: There shall be provided a five foot (5') setback to an
impervious parking or storage surface and a twenty foot (20') setback to any
portion of a building. The corner side yard setback to an impervious parking or
storage surface and/or any portion of a building along the secondary street
frontage of a corner lot shall be equal to that of the front yard setback
required in this zoning district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Rear Yard: There shall be provided a five foot (5') setback to an
impervious parking or storage surface and a twenty foot (20') setback to any
portion of a building.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Transitional Yard: A transitional yard shall be provided anywhere
a lot zoned General Commercial (C-3) District abuts a residential zoning
district. The yard shall conform to the following requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The dimensions of the required transitional yard on the
property located in the General Commercial (C-3) District shall be equal to the
dimensions of the required yard on the residentially zoned property which is
located in closest proximity;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The transitional yard shall extend the entire length of the
abutting residential zoning district boundary;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The transitional yard shall not be less than a setback
required in the General Commercial (C-3) District; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The transitional yard shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in
depth.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Maximum Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Principal Structures: Fifty feet (50') or three (3) stories.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Accessory Structures: Thirty-five feet (35').
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Maximum Lot Coverage: The total sum of all impervious surfaces shall
not exceed seventy-five percent (75%) of the lot area.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Building Design And Construction: All buildings within the General
Commercial (C-3) District shall meet the following design and construction
standards.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Exterior Wall Finish:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All exterior wall finishes that are exposed to front or side
streets on any building shall be of the following materials or combination of
materials:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Face brick;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Natural or cultured stone, stucco, and glass panels;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Precast concrete panels or units, if the surfaces have been
integrally treated with an applied decorative material or texture;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Wood, if the surfaces are finished for exterior use or the
wood is of proven exterior durability, such as cedar or redwood;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Metal panels with interlocking, concealed, or tongue-and-
grove seams and approved fasteners, if the exterior surface finish is warranted
by the manufacturer for at least twenty (20) years against blistering, peeling,
cracking, flaking, checking, or chipping; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Other materials, as approved by the Planning Commission.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Additions And Accessory Structures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All subsequent additions to a principal structure and all
accessory structures shall be constructed of the same material as the principal
structure and shall be of the same architectural design and general appearance
as the principal structure. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-4-11: INDUSTRIAL (I) DISTRICT:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The Industrial (I) District is established to permit
warehousing, storage, and light industrial uses that are free from
objectionable influence upon adjacent commercial and residential development.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the Industrial (I)
District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Non-Residential Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Manufacturing, Production (Light Assembly), Warehousing, Storage,
And Waste:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Assembly/processing of non-offensive materials (appliances,
electrical equipment; dental, scientific, or other similar uses);
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Batch plants;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Building material sales;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Bulk fuel sales;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Carpentry/cabinets;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Concrete plants;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Fabrication, machining, processing, packing/packaging,
freight, or general light industrial uses;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â Furniture sales/assembly/refinishing;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â Grain elevators;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (10)Â Â Â Lumber yards;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (11)Â Â Â Modular (factory-built) home sales; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (12)Â Â Â Storage/warehouse/rental facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Other:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Essential services and related structures.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory structures and
uses in the Industrial (I) District; accessory structures and uses are further
regulated in chapter 10-5 of this title:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Accessory Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Commercial uses within a building/structure that are accessory to
the principal use, but such use shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
gross floor space utilized by the principal use;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Off-street parking;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Off-street loading facilities; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Outdoor storage, sales, rental, and services.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in the Downtown
Commercial (C-1) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Conditional Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Churches and places of worship;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Agricultural implement dealers/services;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Boat, motorcycle, and other recreational vehicle sales and
service, not including wrecking or dismantling;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Vehicle sales and rentals; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Other uses, as specified in chapter 10-5 of this title.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Interim Uses: The following are interim uses in the Downtown Commercial
(C-1) District:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Interim Uses:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Use of transportable shipping and storage containers; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Other temporary uses determined by the Planning Commission to be
of the same general character as the permitted and conditional uses above and
found not to be detrimental to existing uses and the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Lot And Setback Requirements: The following minimum requirements shall
be observed in the Downtown Commercial (C-1) District, subject to the
additional requirements, exceptions, and modifications set forth in this title.
All lot and setback requirements shall be measured as defined in this title.
The property owner shall be solely responsible for locating the property lines
of the lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Lot Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Lot Area: Three thousand (3,000) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Lot Frontage: Twenty-five fee (25').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Setback Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Front Yard: None or as required per building codes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Side Yard: None or as required per building codes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Rear Yard: None or as required per building codes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Transitional Yard: A transitional yard shall be provided anywhere
a lot zoned Downtown Commercial (C-1) District abuts a residential zoning
district. The yard shall conform to the following requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The dimensions of the required transitional yard on the
property located in the Downtown Commercial (C-1) District shall be equal to
the dimensions of the required yard on the residentially zoned property which
is located in closest proximity;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The transitional yard shall extend the entire length of the
abutting residential zoning district boundary; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The transitional yard shall be a minimum of ten feet (10') in
depth.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Maximum Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Building Height:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Principal Structures: Fifty feet (50') or three (3) stories.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Accessory Structures: One (1) story, not exceeding twelve feet
(12') in sidewall height, as measured from the bottom of the sill plate to the
top of the sill plate, and a maximum total height of twenty feet (20').
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Maximum Lot Coverage: No restriction.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Building Design And Construction: All buildings within the Downtown
Commercial (C-1) District shall meet the following design and construction
standards.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Exterior Wall Finish:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All exterior wall finishes that are exposed to front or side
streets on any building shall be of the following materials or combination of
materials:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Face brick;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Natural or cultured stone, stucco, and glass panels;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Precast concrete panels or units, if the surfaces have been
integrally treated with an applied decorative material or texture;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Wood, if the surfaces are finished for exterior use or the
wood is of proven exterior durability, such as cedar or redwood;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Metal panels with interlocking, concealed, or tongue-and-
grove seams and approved fasteners, if the exterior surface finish is warranted
by the manufacturer for at least twenty (20) years against blistering, peeling,
cracking, flaking, checking, or chipping; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Other materials, as approved by the Planning Commission.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Additions And Accessory Structures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â All subsequent additions to a principal structure and all
accessory structures shall be constructed of the same material as the principal
structure and shall be of the same architectural design and general appearance
as the principal structure. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
CHAPTER 5
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Accessory Structures And Uses
10-5-2: Off-Street Parking Requirements And Standards
10-5-3: Fences And Screening
10-5-4: Manufactured Home Parks
10-5-5: Signs
10-5-6: Home Occupations
10-5-7: Planned Unit Developments
10-5-8: Moving And Relocating Of Buildings And Structures
10-5-9: Dwelling Units
10-5-1: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES AND USES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of this section is to safeguard the health,
safety, and general welfare of the public by providing minimum standards for
accessory structures and uses within the City.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Accessory Structures And Uses: Except as otherwise expressly provided
or limited in this section, accessory structures and uses are permitted in any
zoning district in connection with any principal use lawfully existing within
such district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Compliance: No accessory structure or use shall be established or
constructed unless in compliance with this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â General Provisions: In addition to any other condition or limitation
required by this section, accessory structures and uses shall be subject to the
following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â No accessory structure or use shall be established or constructed
before the principal use is in operation or the principal structure is under
construction in accordance with these regulations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â In residential zoning districts, no sign shall be erected in
connection with an accessory structure or use, with the exception of home
occupations; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â In addition to a garage (attached or detached), not more than two
(2) accessory structures may be permitted on any single lot (including
manufactured home parks), except by conditional use permit. Accessory
structures shall be subject to the lot coverage requirements for the zoning
district in which located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â General Yard, Bulk, And Height Limitations: All accessory uses
permitted by this section shall be subject to the following general
requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Location Of Accessory Structure In Required Yards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Accessory structures are prohibited in any front yard;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â No accessory structure on a corner lot shall be located in
the corner side yard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Maximum Coverage:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â In residential zoning districts, accessory structures shall
not occupy more than one thousand (1,000) square feet or five percent (5%) of
the lot area, whichever is greater; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â When an accessory structure contains a loft or attic, only
the footprint of the main floor of the structure shall be used to determine its
size.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Maximum Height Of Accessory Structures:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The height of accessory structures shall not exceed the
limits set for uses permitted in the zoning district. However, accessory
utility structures shall comply with applicable Federal Communications
Commission or Federal Aviation Administration height regulations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Minimum Structural Requirements: Accessory structures in
residential zoning districts shall conform to the following minimum structural
requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The roof style and siding of the accessory structure shall be
similar to the roof style and siding of the main building;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The construction shall conform to the Minnesota State
Building Code, as adopted by the City Council; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Accessory structures of more than two hundred (200) square
feet shall be constructed on a concrete slab or footing.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Kennel, Private: Private dog kennels in residential zoning
districts shall not be allowed in the front or side yards. Kennels may be
located in the rear yard, provided all portions of the kennel are located at
least five feet (5') from any property line.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Swimming Pools: Accessory swimming pools containing more than
three thousand (3,000) gallons or with a depth of water over three and one-half
feet (3.5') shall conform to the following standards. In addition, such pools
shall be subject to site plan review.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â No pool shall be located within at least ten feet (10') of
any side or rear lot line or within six feet (6') of any principal structure or
frost footing. No pool shall be located within any front yard;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â No pool shall be located beneath overhead electrical lines or
over underground utility lines of any type;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â No pool shall be located within any private or public
utility, walkway, drainage, or other easement;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â All accessory mechanical apparatus shall be located at least
thirty feet (30') from any adjacent residential structure and no closer than
five feet (5') to any lot line;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Lighting for the pool shall be oriented so as not to cast
light onto adjacent properties; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â A security fence of at least six feet (6') in height shall
completely enclose the pool area. The security fence shall be screened in
conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Satellite Dishes And Antennas: Satellite dishes and antennas
shall not be allowed in any required front or side yard. Satellite dishes or
antennas shall be allowed in the rear yard, provided the satellite dish or
antenna, including support structures, are set back five feet (5') from any
property line.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Garage Sales, Estate Sales, Yard Sales, Rummage Sales, And Other
Sales Of Personal Property: Garage sales, estate sales, yard sales, rummage
sales, any other sales of personal property that have similar traffic and
parking patterns are permitted if:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The sales occur during no more than four (4) periods of a
maximum of three (3) consecutive days each in any twelve (12) month period;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The items offered for sale consist only of items owned by a
person who occupies the property as his/her residence or by friends/family of
the resident, or by participants in an organization that occupies the permitted
use on the property; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â None of the items offered for sale have been purchased for
resale or received on consignment for purposes of resale.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Seasonal Unenclosed Uses: The unenclosed accessory sale and
display of cut Christmas trees, wreaths, tree branches, pine cones, holly, and
related plant items during the related season, and the unenclosed sale and
display of plants and garden supplies during the related season, shall be
permitted as an accessory use, provided that the sale and display is conducted
in connection with the operation of an existing retail use in the C-1, C-2, or
C-3 zoning districts, and the area used for the unenclosed sale and display
does not exceed twenty percent (20%) of the area of the parcel containing
buildings or use more than twenty percent (20%) of the required parking area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Uses in excess of above shall require a conditional use
permit.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Obstructions: Projections of a principal or accessory structure may be
located in a required yard only as indicated below. In no case shall any
obstruction extend beyond the limits of the lot and adequate drainage shall be
provided which is directed away from adjacent private property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Air conditioners, central air outside condensing units, and window
units, projecting not more than thirty-six inches (36") into the required yard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Arbors and trellises in all required yards.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Architectural ornaments and projections not more than four inches
(4") into a required yard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Unenclosed awnings and canopies extending not more than two and one-
half feet (2.5') into front or side yards and not more than five feet (5') into
rear yards. Such canopy shall be cantilevered from the principal or accessory
structure and shall not contain separate ground supports, with the exception of
Downtown Commercial (C-1) District.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Fences or walls.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Fire escapes may extend into the required side yard a distance not
exceeding thirty-six inches (36").
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Flagpoles.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Unenclosed porches, landings, or steps; provided the area of the
porch, landing, or step does not project more than six feet (6') into the
required front yard or three feet (3') into the required side yard, if the
landing, porch, or step has its floor no higher than three feet (3') above
grade. An open railing no higher than three feet (3') may be placed around such
place.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Projecting eaves, gutters, bay windows, and cantilevered building
extensions, provided the projection is more than thirty-six inches (36") above
the ground grade and projects not more than two and one-half feet (2.5') into
the required side yard and/or four feet (4') into the required front or rear
yards.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Fireplaces, not more than two and one-half feet (2.5') into the
required side yard and/or four feet (4') into there required front or rear
yards.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Awnings in the Downtown Commercial (C-1) District shall be allowed
to project no more than six feet (6') into the right-of-way, with a minimum
clearance height of seven feet (7'). (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020; amd. Ord. 160, 4-18-
2022; amd. Ord. 164, 12-19-2022)
10-5-2: OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The regulation of off-street parking spaces in this title is
to alleviate and/or prevent congestion within the public right-of-way. The
regulations are intended to promote the safety and general welfare of the
public by establishing minimum requirements for off-street parking (motorized
vehicles) in accordance with the utilization of various parcels of land. The
regulations and requirements set forth herein shall apply to all off-street
parking facilities in all of the zoning districts.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Off-Street Parking Schedule: The following minimum number of off-street
parking spaces shall be provided and maintained by ownership, easement, and/or
lease for the life of the respective uses herein set forth. Uses not
specifically mentioned herein or unique cases shall be determined on an
individual basis by the Planning Commission. Factors to be considered in such
determination shall include, without limitation, size of buildings, type of
use, number of employees, expected volume and turnover of customer traffic, and
expected frequency and number of delivery or service vehicles.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Summary Of Off-Street Parking Requirements:
RESIDENTIAL USES:
Single and two-family dwellings and     Two (2) spaces per dwelling unit
twin homes
                                        One and one-half (1.5) spaces for
                                        dwelling units without a separate
                                        bedroom (i.e., efficiency unit)
Townhomes and multiple-family dwellings Two (2) spaces for dwelling units with
(three (3) or more dwelling units)      one (1) or two (2) bedrooms
                                        Two and one-half (2.5) spaces for
                                        dwelling units with three (3) or more
                                        bedrooms
Congregate housing                      One-half (0.5) space per dwelling unit
                                        One (1) space for every four (4)
Nursing homes, assisted living          residents/patients, plus one (1) space
facilities, and similar uses            for every two (2) employees on major
                                        shift
Day care facilities and operations      One (1) space for loading and unloading
COMMERCIAL USES:
                                        Three (3) spaces per repair/service
Automobile repair/service shops         stall, plus one (1) space for every
                                        employee on major shift
                                        One (1) space per four hundred (400)
Banks                                   square feet of gross floor area, plus
                                        one (1) space for every employee on
                                        major shift
Beauty and barber shops                 Two and one-half (2.5) spaces per
                                        operator station
                                        Three (3) spaces per alley, plus one
Bowling alleys                          (1) space for every two (2) employees
                                        on major shift
                                        One (1) space per wash stall, plus one
Carwashes                               (1) space for every employee on major
                                        shift
                                        One (1) space per two hundred (200)
                                        square feet of retail sales area, plus
Convenience store (with gas pumps)      two (2) spaces per pump (parking
                                        adjacent to each pump may be used to
                                        satisfy parking requirements)
Convenience store (without gas pumps)   One (1) space per two hundred (200)
                                        square feet of retail sales area
Drive-thru facilities                   Two (2) spaces per drive-thru lane
                                        One (1) space for every four (4) seats
Funeral homes                           in the largest congregation area (based
                                        on capacity)
                                        One (1) space per two hundred fifty
General office uses                     (250) square feet of gross floor area,
                                        plus one (1) space for every employee
                                        on major shift
                                        One (1) space per four hundred (400)
General retail sales                    square feet of retail sales area, plus
                                        one (1) space for every employee on
                                        major shift
                                        One (1) space per room/suite, plus one
Hotels and motels                       (1) space for every two (2) employees
                                        on major shift
                                        One (1) space per three hundred (300)
Medical clinics, dental offices, and    square feet of gross floor area, plus
similar uses                            one (1) space for every employee on
                                        major shift
                                        One (1) space for every four (4) seats
                                        (based on capacity), plus one (1) space
Restaurant and lounges                  for every two (2) employees on major
                                        shift, one (1) space for each delivery
                                        vehicle, and one (1) space for customer
                                        food pick-up
Storage facilities                      One (1) space for every three (3)
                                        storage units
Theaters, civic centers, and similar    One (1) space for every four (4) seats,
uses                                    plus one (1) space for every two (2)
                                        employees on major shift
                                        One (1) space per two hundred fifty
Vehicle sales and similar uses          (250) square feet of gross floor area
                                        (office area), plus one (1) space for
                                        every employee on major shift
INDUSTRIAL USES:
                                        One (1) space for every one and one-
                                        half (1.5) employees on major shift,
Industrial and manufacturing uses       plus one (1) dedicated truck/loading
                                        space per seven thousand five hundred
                                        (7,500) square feet of gross floor area
                                        (or as determined appropriate)
                                        One (1) space per employee on major
Storage/handling of bulk freight uses   shift, plus one (1) space per company
                                        truck (if stored externally)
                                        One (1) space per employee on major
                                        shift, plus one (1) dedicated truck/
Warehouse/wholesale uses                loading space per seven thousand five
                                        hundred (7,500) square feet of gross
                                        floor area (or as determined
                                        appropriate)
PUBLIC, INSTITUTIONAL, AND CIVIC USES:
Community and cultural facilities       One (1) space per two hundred fifty
                                        (250) square feet of gross floor area
                                        One (1) space for every four (4) seats
Churches and place of worship           in the largest congregation area (based
                                        on capacity)
                                        One (1) space per four hundred (400)
Post offices                            square feet of gross floor area, plus
                                        one (1) space for every employee on
                                        major shift
                                        One (1) space for every four (4) seats
Public assembly uses                    (based on capacity), plus one (1) space
                                        for every employee on major shift
                                        One (1) space per staff member, plus
Schools (elementary and junior high)    one (1) space for every two (2)
                                        classrooms
                                        One (1) space per staff member, plus
Schools (senior high)                   one (1) space for every two (2)
                                        students
Â 
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Exceptions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Downtown Commercial (C-1) District: Off-Street parking is not
required for existing structures in the Downtown Commercial (C-1) District. New
or enlarged structures must be provided with off-street parking, as required by
this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Service Commercial (C-2) District: For existing structures in the
Service Commercial (C-2) District, the City may approve, through the
conditional use process, uses that do not provide the minimum number of off-
street parking spaces, provided that the applicant can demonstrate that the
need for parking can be adequately met by alternative means that fulfill the
purpose of this section. New or enlarged structures must be provided with off-
street parking, as required by this chapter. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020; amd. Ord.
158, 2-15-2021)
10-5-3: FENCES AND SCREENING:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of this section is to safeguard the health,
safety, and general welfare of the public by providing minimum standards for
fences and screening within the City.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Location: All fences shall be located entirely within the private
property of the person, firm, or corporation responsible for the structure.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Construction And Maintenance: Every fence shall be constructed in a
substantial workmanlike manner and of substantial material reasonably suitable
for the purpose for which the fence is proposed to be used. Every fence shall
be maintained in a condition of reasonable repair and shall not be allowed to
become or remain in a condition of disrepair or danger, or constitute a
nuisance. Any fence which is deemed dangerous to the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public, is a public nuisance, and the Building Official
is hereby authorized to commence proper proceedings for the abatement thereof.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Residential Fences: The following provisions shall apply respective to
fences constructed within residential zoning districts:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Fences within two feet (2') of side property lines, from the rear
lot line to the required front setback, shall not be more than six feet (6') in
height;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Fences within two feet (2') of rear property line shall not
exceed six feet (6') in height. Fences in excess of six feet (6') in height
will require a conditional use permit;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Fences located in front yards shall not exceed forty-eight inches
(48") in height;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The screening provisions for residential zoning districts shall
supersede, where applicable, the provisions of this section;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â All posts or similar supporting instruments used in the
construction of fences shall be faced inward towards the property being fenced,
unless otherwise determined by the Planning Commission;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â All fences shall not obstruct natural drainage; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Swimming pool, spa, and hot tub fencing shall be in conformance
with Appendix G, 2006 International Residential Code, as may be amended.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Commercial And Industrial Fences: The following provisions shall apply
respective to fences constructed within commercial or industrial zoning
districts:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Commercial and industrial fences may be erected up to eight feet
(8') in height. Fences in excess of eight feet (8') shall require a conditional
use permit; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The screening provisions for commercial and industrial zoning
districts shall supersede, where applicable, the provisions of this section.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Required Fencing And Screening:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Commercial/Industrial Uses, Multiple-Family Dwellings:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Where any commercial or industrial use, or multiple-family
dwelling of four (4) or more units, abuts property zoned for residential use,
the property owner of that business, industry, or multiple-family building
shall provide screening along the shared boundary line. Screening shall also be
provided where a business, industry, or multiple-family building of four (4) or
more units is across the street from a residential zone, but not on that side
of a business, industry, or multiple-family building considered to be the front
elevation/yard. Provided, however, that the provisions of this section will not
apply where a multiple-family building abuts property also zoned for multiple-
family use. All fencing and screening specifically required by this title shall
consist of either a fence or a green belt planting strip as provided for below:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â A green belt planting strip shall consist of evergreen trees
and/or deciduous trees and plants. The strip shall be of sufficient width and
density to provide an effective visual screen. This planting strip shall be
designed to provide substantial visual screening to a minimum height of six
feet (6'). Earth mounding or berms may be used, but shall not be used to
achieve more than three feet (3') of the required screen. The planting plan and
type of plantings shall require approval of the City.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Required screening fences shall be constructed of masonry,
brick, wood, or metal. Such fence shall provide a solid screening effect six
feet (6') in height for multiple-family uses and at least six feet (6') for
commercial and industrial uses. The design and materials used in constructing a
required screening fence shall be subject to the approval of the City. Fences
in excess of eight feet (8') in height shall require a conditional use permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â This title encourages the use and combination of various
screening methods and is not intended to imply or recommend a continual buffer
strip of one type/use/technique.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Traffic Visibility: The following provisions shall apply:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Visibility At Intersections In Residential Zoning Districts: On a
corner lot, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in
such a manner as to impede vision between a height two feet (2') and eight feet
(8'), and within thirty feet (30') from the intersecting curb lines, or within
twenty feet (20') from the intersecting property lines if there is no curb.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Fences, Walls, And Hedges: No fence, wall, or hedge shall be
erected, placed, planted, or allowed to grow in such a manner as to impede
vision between a height of two feet (2') and eight feet (8') where it will
interfere with traffic or pedestrian visibility from a driveway or alley to a
public way. In required front yards, fences, walls, hedges, or structures shall
be at least seventy-five percent (75%) open space for passage of air and light.
No fence exceeding twenty-four inches (24") in height may be erected within ten
feet (10') of a driveway in a required side yard abutting a street corner lot,
unless such fence is at least seventy-five percent (75%) open. (Ord. 156, 6-13-
2020)
10-5-4: MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of this section is to safeguard the health,
safety, and general welfare of the public by providing minimum standards for
manufactured home parks within the City.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Permit Required: It is unlawful for any person to construct, alter, or
expand any manufactured home park within the incorporated limits of the City
without it first being approved and licensed by the State of Minnesota and
granted a conditional use permit issued by the City Council under the terms of
this title.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Application: Each application for a conditional use permit shall
contain the following information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Name and address of applicant;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Location and legal description of the property proposed for a
manufactured home park; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Complete engineering plans and specifications of the proposed
manufactured home park showing, but not limited to, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The area and dimensions of the tract of land; topography sketch
of land;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The number, location, and size of all mobile home lots;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The location and width of roadways and walkways;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â The location of water and sewer lines and riser pipes;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Plans and specifications of the water supply and refuse and
sewage disposal facilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Plans and specifications of all buildings constructed or to be
constructed within the park;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â The location and details of lighting and electrical systems;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â A landscaping plan approved by the City Council;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â A plan of the park ground area and recreation facilities;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â A survey by registered surveyor of the boundaries of the proposed
park; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â A plan showing existing and proposed streets designed to
accommodate the traffic generated by the proposed park.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Compliance Required: Any conditional use permit for a manufactured home
park issued hereunder shall be conditioned upon compliance with the terms
hereof and any conditions attached to the conditional use permit and those
requirements as imposed by the State of Minnesota.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Occupancy: After issuance of a conditional use permit, the manufactured
home park may be constructed, but may not be occupied until it has been
inspected by the Zoning Administrator and a certificate of occupancy issued. A
certificate of occupancy may be issued when it is found that construction is
complete and that all terms of the permit have been complied with. A temporary
certificate of occupancy may be issued for and upon completion of a portion of
the park, allowing occupancy of the completed portion, if the developer or
applicant furnished the City with a public contractor's performance bond, with
corporate surety in an amount equal to the total cost of the uncompleted
portion of the project. The bond shall be subject to approval by the City
Council and filed with the Zoning Administrator.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Transfer Of Permit: Every person holding a conditional use permit shall
give notice in writing to the Zoning Administrator within seventy-two (72)
hours after having sold, transferred, given away, or otherwise disposed of
interest in or control of any manufactured home park. The notice shall be made
to the Zoning Administrator to include the name and address of the person
succeeding to the ownership or control of the manufactured home park. Upon
application in writing for transfer of the conditional use permit, the
conditional use permit shall be transferred.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Noncompliance: Whenever, upon inspection of any manufactured home park,
the Zoning Administrator finds that conditions or practices exist which are in
violation of this section, the Zoning Administrator shall give notice in
writing to the permit holder stating the nature of the conditions or practices
which constitute a violation hereunder and stating that the conditions or
practices shall be corrected within a period of thirty (30) days following the
delivery of such notice by the Zoning Administrator. The date of mailing the
notice by certified mail shall constitute delivery. Upon expiration of the
thirty (30) day period, the Zoning Administrator shall re-inspect the
manufactured home park in violation and, if such conditions or practices have
not been corrected, shall notify the City Council.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Time Within Which To Comply: If the work necessary to correct the
conditions or practices which are the subject of a notice cannot be completed
in the thirty (30) day period, written extensions maybe granted by the City
Council, if reasons for hardship prevail and can be verified.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Hearing: Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in
connection with the enforcement of any provisions of these regulations may
request and shall be granted a hearing of the same before the City Council.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Suspension And Revocation: If after the thirty (30) day period of
notice has expired, the conditions and practices which constitute a violation
of these regulations have not been corrected and the permit holder has not
within the prescribed thirty (30) day period requested a hearing, the City
Council may suspend or revoke the conditional use permit previously issued for
the manufactured home park by sending, by certified mail or by delivering
personally, a notice of the suspension or revocation to the permit holder. Upon
receipt of the notice of suspension or revocation, the permit holder shall
cease operation of the manufactured home park.
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Emergency: Whenever the Zoning Administrator finds that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public, the Zoning Administrator may, without notice or
hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of the emergency and requiring
that such action be taken as the Zoning Administrator may deem necessary to
meet the emergency, including the suspension of the conditional use permit.
Notwithstanding any other provision of these regulations, the order shall be
effective immediately. Any person to whom the order is directed shall comply
therewith immediately, but upon petition to the Zoning Administrator, shall be
afforded a hearing before the City Council as soon as possible. Pending the
hearing, emergency orders shall be in full force and effect until and unless
later removed, modified, or changed by the Zoning Administrator or the City
Council.
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Inspections:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Compliance With This Section: The Zoning Administrator is hereby
authorized and directed to make such inspections as are necessary to determine
satisfactory compliance with these regulations, including the power to enter at
reasonable times upon any private or public property for this purpose.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Registration Record: The Zoning Administrator, Chief of Police, or
duly authorized representatives, shall have the power to inspect the register
containing a record of all residents of the manufactured home park.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Access: It shall be the duty of the manufactured home park
management to give the Zoning Administrator free access to all lots at
reasonable times for the purpose of inspection.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Repairs: It shall be the duty of every occupant of a manufactured
home park to give the owner thereof, or the owner's agent or employee, access
to any part of such manufactured home park at reasonable times for the purpose
of making such repairs or alterations as are necessary to effect compliance
with this section.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â General Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Area Requirements: New manufactured home parks shall be a minimum of
five (5) acres in size. Each individual manufactured home lot shall be a
minimum of five thousand (5,000) square feet.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Environmental Requirements: The conditions of all soil, groundwater
level, drainage, and topography shall not create hazards to the property or the
health and safety of the occupants. The site should not be exposed to
objectionable smoke, noise, odors, or other adverse influences, and no portion
subject to unpredictable or sudden flooding.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Soil And Ground Cover Requirements: Exposed ground surfaces in all
parts of every manufactured home park shall be paved or covered with stone,
screenings, or other solid materials, or protected with a vegetative growth
that is capable of preventing soil erosion and of eliminating objectionable
dust.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Site Drainage Requirements: The ground surface in all parts of every
manufactured home park shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water
in a safe, efficient manner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Use Requirements: No part of any manufactured home park shall be
used for non-residential purposes, except such uses that are required for the
direct servicing and well-being of park residents and for the management and
maintenance of the park or such other uses as are permitted in single-family
dwellings and approved by the park management.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Required Separation Between Manufactured Homes: Unless separated by
fireproof structures approved by the Zoning Administrator, manufactured homes
shall be separated from each other and from other buildings and structures by
at least twenty feet (20') or the sum of the heights of both trailer units,
whichever is greater. Unless separated by fireproof structures approved by the
Zoning Administrator, manufactured homes placed end-to-end must have minimum
clearance of fifteen feet (15'); an accessory structure, such as an awning,
cabana, storage cabinet, carport, windbreak, or porch which has a floor area
exceeding twenty-five feet (25') and has an opaque top or roof, shall, for
purposes of all separation requirements, be considered to be a part of the
manufactured home.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Open Space: A minimum of five hundred (500) square feet per
manufactured home shall be provided for definable play areas and open space
within the manufactured home park. Such areas of open space and play area shall
not be areas included within any setback, nor shall they include any areas of
less than twenty feet (20') in length or width.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Required Setbacks, Buffer Strips and Screening: All manufactured
homes shall be located at least thirty feet (30') from any property line
abutting upon a public street or highway and at least twenty feet (20') from
other property boundary lines; there shall be a minimum distance of fifteen
feet (15') between the manufactured home stand and abutting park street. All
manufactured home parks located adjacent to residential, recreational,
commercial, or industrial land uses shall provide screening, such as fences,
shrubs, and trees, along the property boundary line separating the park and
such uses and shall be maintained in a neat and orderly fashion.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Average Density: Notwithstanding the type of development concept
used, the maximum density shall be seven (7) manufactured homes per acre.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Accessory Structures: One (1) accessory structure for storage of
equipment and refuse is required and the accessory structure shall be a minimum
of forty-eight (48) square feet and designed of water resistant material that
will enhance the general appearance of the lot.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Park Street System And Car Parking:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â General Requirements: All manufactured home parks shall be
provided with safe and convenient vehicular access from abutting public streets
or roads to each manufactured home lot. Such access shall be provided by
streets, driveways, or other means.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Park Entrance: Entrances to manufactured home parks shall be
designed to minimize congestion and hazards and allow free movement of traffic
on adjacent streets. No parking shall be permitted on the park entrance street
for a distance of thirty feet (30') from its point of beginning.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Internal Streets: Surfaced roadways shall be of adequate width to
accommodate anticipated traffic and, in any case, shall meet the following
minimum requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â All streets, except minor streets, shall be a minimum of
thirty feet (30') in width from face of curb to face of curb. Streets without
curb shall be considered minor streets.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Dead-end streets shall be limited in length to five hundred
feet (500') and shall be provided at the closed end with a cul-de-sac having an
outside roadway diameter of at least one thousand feet (1,000'). All dead-end
streets shall be marked with approved signs at the entrance to the dead-end
street.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Street Construction And Design Standards:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Pavements: All streets shall be provided with a paved
concrete or bituminous surface. Pavement edges shall be protected to prevent
raveling of the wearing surface and shifting of the pavement base. Street
surfaces shall be maintained reasonably free of cracks, holes, and other
hazards.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Grades: Longitudinal grades of all streets shall range
between 0.4 and 8.0%. Transverse grades (crown) of all streets shall be
sufficient to ensure adequate transverse drainage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Storm Sewers: If conditions warrant, an adequate storm sewer
system shall be provided to dispose of all runoff water. The storm sewer system
shall be connected to existing City storm sewer systems upon City approval.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Intersections: Within fifty feet (50') of an intersection,
streets shall be at right angles. Intersections of more than two (2) streets at
one point shall be avoided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Car Parking: For all new manufactured home parks or additions
to present parks, off-street parking areas for the use of park occupants and
guests are required. Such areas shall be furnished at a rate of at least two
(2) car spaces for each manufactured home lot, of which at least one-half of
the spaces may be in compounds. All off-street parking areas shall be paved
with a concrete or bituminous surface.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 12.Â Â Â Walks:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â General Requirements: All manufactured home parks shall be
provided with safe, convenient, all-season pedestrian access of adequate width
for intended use between individual manufactured homes, park streets, and all
community facilities provided for park residents. Sudden changes in alignment
and gradient shall be avoided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Common Walk System: A common walk system shall be provided and
maintained between locations where pedestrian traffic is concentrated. Common
walks shall have a minimum width of four and one-half feet (4.5').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Individual Walks: All manufactured homes shall be connected to
common walks, to paved streets or to paved driveways or parking spaces
connecting to a paved street. Individual walks shall have a minimum width of
two feet (2').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 13.Â Â Â Patio: Each manufactured home lot shall have a patio of four inch
(4") concrete, with minimum dimensions of nine feet (9') by twenty feet (20').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 14.Â Â Â Trees: A minimum of one (1) tree per lot is required. In open areas
and park areas, a minimum of twenty (20) trees per acre is required.
Â Â Â N.Â Â Â Service Building And Other Community Service Facilities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General Provisions: The requirements of this subsection shall apply
to service buildings, recreation buildings, and other community service
facilities, such as management offices, repair shops, storage areas, sanitary
facilities, laundry facilities, indoor recreation areas, and commercial uses
supplying essential goods or services for the exclusive use of park occupants.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Structural Requirements For Buildings: All portions of buildings
shall be properly protected from damage by ordinary uses and by decay,
corrosion, termites, and other destructive elements. Exterior portions shall be
of such materials and be so constructed and protected as to prevent entrance or
penetration of moisture and weather.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Barbecue Pits, Fireplaces, Stoves, And Incinerators: Cooking
shelters, barbecue pits, fireplaces, wood-burning stoves, and incinerators
shall be so located, constructed, maintained, and used as to minimize fire
hazards and smoke nuisances both on the property on which used and on
neighboring property and shall comply with all appropriate ordinances, laws, or
other regulations.
Â Â Â O.Â Â Â Solid Waste:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Solid Waste: The storage, collection, and disposal of refuse in
manufactured home parks shall not create health hazards, rodent harborage,
insect breeding, accident or fire hazards, or air pollution.
Â Â Â P.Â Â Â Insect And Rodent Control:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Grounds, Buildings, And Structures: Grounds, buildings, and
structures shall be maintained free of insects and rodent harborage and
infestation. Extermination methods and other measures to control insects and
rodents shall conform with the requirements of the State and County health
code.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Parks: Manufactured home parks shall be maintained free of
accumulation and of debris which may provide rodent harborage or breeding
places for flies, mosquitoes, and other pests.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Storage Areas: Storage areas shall be so maintained as to prevent
rodent harborage.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Screens: Where the potential for insect and rodent infestation
exists, all exterior openings in or beneath any structure shall be
appropriately screened with wire mesh or other suitable materials.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Brush, Weeds, And Grass: The growth of brush, weeds, and grass shall
be controlled to prevent harborage of ticks, chiggers, and other noxious
insects. Manufactured home parks shall be maintained as to prevent the growth
of ragweed, poison ivy, poison oak, poison sumac, and other noxious weeds
considered detrimental to health. Open areas shall be maintained free of heavy
undergrowth of any description.
Â Â Â Q.Â Â Â Fire Protection:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Litter, Rubbish, And The Like: Manufactured home parks shall be kept
free of litter, rubbish, and other flammable material.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Fire Extinguishers: Portable fire extinguishers rated for classes A,
B, and C fires shall be kept visible and in service buildings and other
locations conveniently located and maintained in good operating condition.
Their capacity shall be not less than ten (10) pounds.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Fires: Fires shall be made only in stoves, indoor incinerators, and
other equipment intended for such purposes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be installed if the manufactured
home park water supply system is capable to serve them in accordance with the
following requirements: the water supply system shall permit the operation of
standard City fire hydrants; and fire hydrants, if provided, shall be located
within three hundred feet (300') of any manufactured home, service building, or
other structure in the park.
Â Â Â R.Â Â Â Storm Shelters:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Storm Shelters: Manufactured home parks shall provide a storm
shelter which meets the minimum standards specified by the State of Minnesota.
Â Â Â S.Â Â Â Park Management Responsibilities:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General Requirements: The holder of the conditional use permit shall
operate the manufactured home park in compliance with this section and shall
provide adequate supervision to maintain the park, its facilities and equipment
in good repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Inspection Of Register: The Park Manager shall keep the required
register available for inspection at all times by law enforcement offers,
public health officers, and other officials whose duty necessitates acquisition
of the information contained in the register. The register record for such
occupant registration shall not be destroyed for a period of three (3) years
following the date of departure of the registrant from the manufactured home
park. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-5-5: SIGNS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide for necessary visual
communications and to preserve and promote a pleasant physical environment
within the City by regulating the type, number, size, height, lighting,
maintenance, and erection of sign structures.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Residential Signs: The following signs shall be permitted in
residential zoning districts provided that they are illuminated by reflector
methods only and do not exceed four (4) square feet in area:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â One sign bearing only property numbers, post box numbers, and names
of occupants of the premises;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Legal notices, identification, information, or directional signs
erected or required by governmental bodies;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Temporary signs connected with and prior to political elections;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Signs advertising the sale, rental, or lease of a building or
premises;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Signs which display a noncommercial message for a local festival or
an activity sponsored by a non-profit group (such signs may be displayed no
more than a total of fourteen (14) days per calendar year); and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Signs permitted for home occupations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â All commercial advertising signs in residential zoning districts are
prohibited.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Commercial And Industrial Signs: On-site signs directing attention to a
business, profession, product, service, activity, or entertainment, and where
the activity is conducted, sold, or offered on the same premises upon which the
sign is located, are permitted in commercial and industrial zoning districts,
provided:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A plan be submitted and a building permit issued prior to
installation of any commercial signs, with the exception of signs mounted flat
against a building. The plan must show the location of the sign on the site and
include sign dimensions, height above the ground, and show footing and
foundation base criteria. The foundation base and posts of all signs must be on
private property or the premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The foundation base and posts of all signs may not be located upon
City property or rights-of-way, unless approved by the City Council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â No part of any sign or projection may protrude over the public
right-of-way within six feet (6') of the actual or proposed curb line. Signs
may project over the right-of-way a maximum of six feet (6') provided no part
is within six feet (6') of the curb line and that it is over eight feet (8')
above the sidewalk or the average grade at the property line when no sidewalk
is in place. If in the future the street is widened, the sign shall be removed
at the owner's expense to maintain the six foot (6') distance of the curb
regulation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â All sources of artificial light, other than street lights, shall be
fixed, directed, or designed so as not to measurably increase the amount of
light toward abutting residential lots.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â All sign installations shall also conform to Minnesota Department of
Transportation and Federal Aviation Administration regulations, wherever
applicable.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â It is the obligation of the installer to check for any or all
underground utilities or services before excavating for sign foundations.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Off-Premise Signs: Off-premises signs shall be permitted upon
verification of compliance with the following provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â A sign permit must be obtained prior to installation of any off-
premises signs.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â The foundation base and posts of all signs may not be located upon
City property or rights-of-way, unless approved by the City Council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Off premises signs must be set back from residential zoning district
boundaries a distance of one hundred feet (100'). Setback dimensions will be a
straight line measurement from the residential zoning district boundary to the
center line of the sign standard.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â The off-premises sign measures no more than seven hundred fifty
(750) square feet in area, inclusive of the border and trim, but exclusive of
the base or apron, supports, or other structural members.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â The height of any off-premise sign, including support structures,
measured from the highest centerline grade of any adjacent street, may not
exceed thirty-five feet (35').
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â No off-premises signs may be located closer than two hundred fifty
feet (250') apart, unless separated by an interstate highway or principal
arterial. Separation will be a straight line measurement from the center line
of the sign standards.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â It is the obligation of the installer to check for any or all
underground utilities or services before excavating for sign foundations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â All sign installations shall also conform to Minnesota Department of
Transportation and Federal Aviation Administration regulations, wherever
applicable.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â All sources of artificial light, other than street lights, shall
have a fixed direction and shall be designed so that the source of light is
directed away from adjoining residences, streets, or sidewalks.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Portable Signs: Any sign which is constructed so as to be movable,
either by skids, wheels, truck, or other conveyance; any sign which does not
have a permanent foundation or is not otherwise permanently fastened to the
ground, and cloth signs or banners (of any material), shall be considered
portable signs. When on a trailer, the removal of wheels or undercarriage does
not place the sign in another category, nor does the anchoring of the sign by
means of concrete blocks, sandbags, or other types of temporary anchors.
Â Â Â Portable signs are permitted provided:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â That the portable sign is located in a commercial or industrial
zoning district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Portable signs located in a commercial zoning district can only be
used for directing attention to a business, profession, product, service,
activity, or entertainment conducted, sold, or offered on the same premises
upon which the sign is located. Provided, however, portable signs advertising
special events or fundraisers for non-profit organizations are permitted for a
period not to exceed thirty (30) days at a time for each special event.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â That no portable sign may exceed sixty-four (64) square feet in area
or eight feet (8') in height.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â That no portable sign may be placed upon public right-of-way without
consent of the City Council.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â No portable sign placed within one hundred feet (100') of an area
zoned for residential use may have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights or
other illuminating devices which have a changing intensity, brightness, or
color.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â That only one (1) portable sign may be placed upon a parcel at any
given time, except in the case of multiple business structures, where two (2)
portable signs will be allowed on the parcel at any given time.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Sign Maintenance: All signs and sign structures must be kept in good
repair and in a proper state of maintenance, including, but not limited to,
replacing lamps, replacing ballast in freestanding signs, replacing
transformers in building identification signs, painting the pole of
freestanding signs and the cabinet of freestanding or wall-mounted signs,
replacing or repairing the sign face, replacing trim, and the replacement of
sign fasteners. If the Zoning Administrator finds that a sign is not in a
proper state of repair, the City may after thirty (30) days written
notification, repair, modify, or remove the sign and special assess the charges
for said work against the property owner. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-5-6: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide a means, through the
establishment of specific standards and procedures, by which home occupations
can be conducted in residential neighborhoods without jeopardizing the health,
safety, and general welfare of the surrounding neighborhood.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Applicability: Subject to the nonconforming use provisions of this
title, all occupations conducted in the home shall comply with the provisions
of this section. This section shall not be construed, however, to apply to home
occupations accessory to farming.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Prohibited Occupations: The following uses, by the nature of the
investment or operation, have a pronounced tendency to rapidly increase beyond
the limits permitted for home occupations. The following uses, therefore, are
not permitted as home occupations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Automobile, boat, and trailer painting and detailing painting;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Automobile, boat, small engine, recreational vehicles, and trailer
repair or servicing;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Automobile, boat, and trailer sales or rental;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Cannabis businesses;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Junkyard, scrapping, or salvage operations;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 6.Â Â Â Body art, including tattooing, permanent make-up, and piercing;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 7.Â Â Â Medical or dental offices;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 8.Â Â Â Mortuaries or funeral homes;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 9.Â Â Â Painting, electrical, plumbing, or general contractor, unless
operated only as an office for said uses, and provided further that no
employees report to work at the premises;
Â Â Â Â Â Â 10.Â Â Â Restaurants or other eating and drinking establishments; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â 11.Â Â Â Any other use as determined by the Planning Commission.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â General Provisions: All home occupations shall comply with the
following general provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General Provisions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â No home occupation shall produce light, glare, noise, fumes,
odor, or vibration that will in any way have an objectionable effect upon
adjacent or neighboring properties.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â No equipment shall be used in the home occupation which will
create electrical interference to surrounding properties. No equipment shall be
used which creates visual or audible interference in any radio or television
receivers off the premises or causes fluctuations in the voltage off the
premises.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Any home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the residential use of the premises. Not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of
the main floor of the dwelling unit shall be permanently set aside to be used
in the conduct of the home occupation. It should not change the residential
character thereof, and shall result in no incompatibility or disturbance to the
surrounding residential uses.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â No home occupation shall require internal or external
alterations, or involve construction features not customarily found in
dwellings, except where required to comply with local and State fire and police
recommendations.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â There shall be no exterior storage of equipment or material used
in the home occupation, except personal automobiles used in the home occupation
may be parked on the site.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The home occupation shall meet all applicable ordinances, fire
codes, and building codes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â There shall be no exterior display or exterior signs or interior
display or interior signs which are visible from outside the dwelling unit,
with the exception of an identification/business sign not exceeding four (4)
square feet in area.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â No home occupation shall be conducted between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M., unless said occupation is
contained entirely within the principal structure and will not require any on
street parking facilities.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Home occupations shall not create a parking demand in excess of
that which can be accommodated in an existing driveway, where no vehicle is
parked closer than fifteen feet (15') from the curb line or edge of paved
surface.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Not more than one (1) person, other than those who customarily
reside on the premises, shall be employed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â k.Â Â Â All permitted home occupations must be conducted entirely within
a building and must comply with the requirements of this title. (Ord. 156, 6-
13-2020; amd. Ord. 175, 8-14-2025)
10-5-7: PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: A Planned Unit Development (PUD) may be established in any
residential zoning district under the conditional use process. A PUD is a
designated parcel of land that encourages a creative approach to the use of
land by allowing considerable flexibility in the design of the site and
buildings. Specific aspects of flexibility (including permitted uses,
dimensional requirements, densities, dedication requirements, etc.) shall be
contingent upon review and approval by the Planning Commission and the City
Council, pursuant to the conditional use permit process, and upon such
approval, shall prevail over conflicting requirements listed elsewhere within
this title or within the Subdivision Ordinance.
Â Â Â The intent of the PUD regulations is to permit greater flexibility and,
consequently, more creative and imaginative design for the development of
residential areas than under conventional zoning regulations. It is further
intended to promote more economical and efficient use of the land, while
providing a harmonious variety of housing choices, a higher level of urban
amenities, and preservation of natural scenic qualities of open spaces.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Coordinating Regulatory Documents:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Coordination With Subdivision Ordinance Regulations:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â It is the intent of this title that subdivision review, under the
current Subdivision Ordinance, be carried out simultaneously with the review of
a PUD under this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The development plans submitted under this section must be
submitted in a form which will satisfy the requirements of the Subdivision
Ordinance for preliminary and final plats.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The requirements for both this section of the Zoning Ordinance
and those of the Subdivision Ordinance shall apply to all PUDs, and all actions
of the City Council pertaining to PUDs shall be based upon a recommendation by
the Planning Commission.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Administration: An application for a conditional use permit shall be
filed with the Zoning Administrator in the name or names of the recorded owner
or owners of property included in the development and/or the application may be
filed by holder(s) of an equitable interest in such property.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Review Process: The review process shall follow the conditional use
application procedure, as described in this title and the subdivision review
process, as outlined in the Subdivision Ordinance. Applications shall be
processed concurrently.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Lot Requirements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â General Requirements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Harmony: The PUD shall be planned, designed, and landscaped in
such a manner as to blend and harmonize with the surrounding adjacent areas.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Yard Requirements: Minimal specifications for yard requirements
are imposed to allow design flexibility. However, rear and side yard
requirements shall conform along the developments outermost lot line to the
rear and side yard requirements of the adjacent zoning district.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Front Yard: Minimum front yard setback requirements are intended
to provide privacy and usable yard area for residents. Front yard setbacks may
be reduced at the discretion of the City through the PUD process if the
applicant can implement/accommodate appropriate screening, plantings, traffic
reduction, building orientation, or other acceptable mitigation methods.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Lot Width: Minimum lot widths are intended to prevent the
construction of long, narrow buildings with inadequate privacy, light, and air.
Within the constraints of the PUD process, lot width standards may be reduced
if the project design implements/accommodates provisions that allow light, air,
and privacy for all living spaces in an appropriate manner.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Building Spacing: Requirements for side yard setbacks are based
on several related factors:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Privacy: Minimum building space requirements are intended to
provide privacy for dwelling units. Where applicants seek reduced side yard
setbacks it shall be necessary that site plans and building elevations locate
windows and any necessary screening to ensure adequate privacy between units.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Light and Air: Building spacing shall provide adequate access
to light and air to all dwelling units.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Building Configuration: Where building configuration is
irregular so that the needs expressed in the above items are met by the
building configuration, reduced building space is permissible, as appropriate.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â Open Space: Common open space shall comprise at least twenty-
five percent (25%) of the gross area of the PUD to be used for recreational,
park, or environmental amenities for the collective enjoyment by occupants of
the development. Open space dedications are non-inclusive of public or private
streets, driveways, or utility easements, provided, however, that up to
seventy-five percent (75%) of the required open space may be composed of open
space on privately owned properties dedicated by easement to assure that the
open space will be permanent.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Recreation facilities, recreational structures, and any
accessory uses located in common recreation areas shall be considered open
space under the provision that total impervious surfaces (paving, roofs, etc.)
constitute no more than five percent (5%) of the total open space.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â All land shown on the final development plan as common open space
must be conveyed under one of the following options:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â It may be conveyed to a public agency which will agree to
maintain the common open space and any buildings, structures, or improvements
which have been placed on it.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â It may be conveyed to trustees provided in an indenture
establishing an association or similar organization for the maintenance of the
planned development. The common open space must be conveyed to the trustees
subject to covenants to be approved by the Planning Commission which shall
restrict the common open space to the uses specified on the final development
plan, and which provide for the maintenance of the common open space in a
manner which assures its continued use for its intended purpose;
Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Existing trees shall be preserved, where possible. The location of
trees must be considered when planning the common open space, location of
buildings, underground services, walks, paved area, playgrounds, parking areas,
and finished grade levels.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Findings Required: The Planning Commission and City Council shall come
to the following facts/conclusions prior to the issuance of any approval for a
PUD; to ensure the interests of the public:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Findings:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â The plan conforms to the City's Comprehensive Plan and Future
Land Use Map;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â The plan is designed to form a desirable and unified development
within its boundaries;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The proposed uses will not be detrimental to present or future
land uses in the surrounding area;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Any exceptions to the standard requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance and Subdivision Ordinance are justified by the design of the
development;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The plan will not create an excessive burden on parks, schools,
streets, and other public facilities and utilities which serve or are proposed
to serve the PUD; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The PUD will not have a unique or adverse impact on the
reasonable enjoyment of the neighboring property. (Ord. 156, 6-13-2020)
10-5-8: MOVING AND RELOCATING OF BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of this section is to safeguard the health,
safety, and general welfare of the public by providing minimum standards for
the moving and relocating of buildings and structures within the City.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â State Licensure Requirements: No person, except a State licensed house
mover, shall remove, raise, or support a building or structure free of its
foundation within the incorporated limits of the City. The above shall not be
construed as a measure to prevent the owners of a building or structure from
personally raising, moving, or supporting such building or structure upon their
own premises.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Permit Requirements And Application Process:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Process:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Permit Required: Every licensed house mover or building owner
shall, before raising, moving, or supporting free of its foundation any
building or structure, obtain a permit therefore from the City.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â A person seeking a permit shall contact the Building Official to
receive an application for inspecting the property and must file the completed
application form with the Zoning Administrator. The applicant shall present
plans to the Building Official, which at a minimum, shall indicate lot size,
orientation of the structure on the property respective to setback requirements
and lot coverage requirements. The Building Official shall physically inspect
all buildings to be moved within/into the City (unless the building/structure
is new construction and an inspection report from a building official is
provided declaring the building/structure consistent with applicable codes).
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Upon receipt of a completed moving permit application, which
shall include an inspection report from the Building Official (including filing
fee), the Zoning Administrator shall set the time and date for a public
hearing. Notice of said hearing shall consist of a legal property description
and/or a summary description of the request, and be published in a newspaper of
general circulation at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. In the case of
zoning amendments involving changes in zoning district boundaries affecting an
area of five (5) acres or less, a written notice of said hearing shall be
mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing to all owners of land within
three hundred fifty feet (350') of the property to which the amendment relates.
A copy of the hearing notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to
which the notice was sent shall be attested and made a part of the record of
the proceeding. Failure of a property owner to receive said notice, or failure
to provide mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the
notice, shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this
title, provided a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with the notice
requirements of this title.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Any application for a permit shall be accompanied by a permit
fee, which shall be in an amount equal to the fee charged for a conditional use
permit. Such fee shall not be refundable if the permit is denied.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â The Planning Commission, in determining whether or not to
recommend approval of the moving permit, shall consider the same criteria that
apply to the issuance of conditional use permits. In addition, they shall
consider the following factors:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Whether the building/structure is potentially structurally
unsafe and could endanger persons or property within the City if moved;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Whether the structure is structurally sound and capable of
meeting Minnesota State Building Code requirements subsequent to the move; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â To note, the Building Official may require code compliance
work to be completed before the structure is allowed to be relocated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The Planning Commission, in recommending approval of a permit,
may institute conditions upon the permit which may include, but not limited to,
the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The route to be followed in moving the structure;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â The date and time limits in which the building may be moved;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â The amount of time in which an association or corporation
owning, operating, or controlling wires or cable that must be moved or
displaced to accommodate the move has to remove or displace wires or cables
after receipt of notice of the time of the move;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The amount of cash deposit, performance bond, or completion
bond that should be required by the City Council, if any;
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â The amount of a cash deposit or letter of credit for
estimated costs that may be incurred on behalf of the City, as required by the
City Council; and
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Alterations or repairs that must be made to the structure to
comply with Minnesota State Building Code requirements and/or to upgrade the
building to maintain neighborhood integrity and appearance.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â After recommendation by the Planning Commission, the matter shall
be placed on the agenda of the next City Council meeting. A favorable vote of a
majority of the Council members present shall be required to approve the
permit.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â If a permit is approved, a cash deposit, performance bond, or
completion bond in an amount set in the permit (if any) shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator prior to the issuance of the permit, and be signed by a
good and sufficient surety, setting forth the completion date therein. Such
bond, if required, is for the purpose of ensuring that alterations and repairs
to the structure as required within the Minnesota State Building Code or as
required as a condition of the permit, are accomplished. The date of completion
shall be set by the City Council and the Building Official.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â In cases where a building is being moved outside the incorporated
limits of the City, or in the case where an accessory structure or single story
garage are to be moved, the application and application fee shall be filed with
the Zoning Administrator, but no hearing or approval of the Planning Commission
or City Council is required, unless otherwise deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Conditions Of Permit: The following conditions shall apply to each
moving permit as issued by the City:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Moving Buildings Across Railway Tracks: No house, building, or
structure shall be moved across any railway track, except at such time as
permitted by the persons, associations, or corporations owning or controlling
such tracks.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Lighting Required On Buildings/Structures: When any building or
structure is being moved across or through any street or alley, a red light
must be illuminated at each corner of such building or structure from sunset to
sunrise. All ropes, blocks, winches, windlasses, or other equipment used in the
moving of said building or structure must, when obstructing the free use of a
street or alley, be protected by suitable lights from sunset to sunrise. (Ord.
156, 6-13-2020)
10-5-9: DWELLING UNITS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Purpose: The purpose of this section is to safeguard the health,
safety, and general welfare of the public by restricting the use of dwelling
units within the City.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Prohibited Dwelling Units: The following are prohibited under this
section:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Recreational vehicles, tents, garages, or other accessory structures
shall not be temporarily or permanently occupied for living, sleeping, or
housekeeping purposes, except as allowed under subsection C of this section.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Basement dwellings, as defined in the Minnesota State Building Code,
shall hereafter be prohibited in all zoning districts. Existing basement
dwellings may remain as a nonconforming use.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Exceptions: The following are exceptions to subsection B of this
section:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â The temporary use of recreational vehicles or tents within a
campground.
The owner of a property in the Single and Two-Family Residential (R-l) District
may allow nonpaving guests to occupy one (1) recreational vehicle or tent for
sleeping purposes for a period not to exceed seven (7) consecutive days at one
time or more than fourteen (14) days total in one calendar year. (Ord. 164, 12-
19-2022)
TITLE 11
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
11-1-1: Short Title
11-1-2: Purpose And Intent
11-1-3: Jurisdiction
11-1-4: Application
11-1-5: Approvals Necessary For Acceptance Of Subdivision Plats
11-1-6: Compliance
11-1-7: Building Permits
11-1-8: Land Suitability
11-1-1: SHORT TITLE:
This title shall be known as the SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF FRAZEE,
and will be referred to herein as "this title". (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-1-2: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
It is the purpose of this title to establish regulations and requirements for
the subdivision of property within the jurisdiction of this title, in order to
provide for orderly development and extension of municipal services and to
safeguard the best interests of the city of Frazee in accord with Minnesota
statutes, which regulations the city council deems necessary for the health,
safety, and general welfare of this community. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-1-3: JURISDICTION:
The regulations herein governing plats and the subdivision of land shall apply
within the corporate limits of the city and the unincorporated area within two
(2) miles of its limits; provided that where a municipality lies less than four
(4) miles from the limits of Frazee, these regulations shall apply only to a
line equidistant from Frazee and said municipality; and provided further that
the governing body or bodies of unincorporated areas adjacent to the city have
not adopted ordinances for the regulation of subdivision of land or platting.
(Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-1-4: APPLICATION:
Any plat filed after enactment of this title for each subdivision or each part
thereof lying within the jurisdiction of this title shall be prepared,
presented for approval, and recorded as prescribed by this title.
These regulations shall apply to the subdivision of any lot, tract or parcel of
land into two (2) or more lots, tracts or the division of land including the
resubdivision or replatting of land or lots. The following subdivisions shall
be exempt from the requirements of this section:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The subdivision of land into tracts larger than five (5) acres in area
located outside the shoreland district and twenty (20) acres within the
shoreland district.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The subdivision of a lot for the purpose of attachment to a contiguous
lot or to create two (2) lots and the newly created property line will not
cause the remaining portion of the lot or any structure to be in violation with
this title or the zoning ordinance.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Conveyances to a governmental unit or public utility for the purpose of
roads, streets residual, substations, poles, towers, telephone booths, etc.
All conveyances which are exempted above in which the land conveyed is
described by metes and bounds are subject to section 11-6-2 of this title.
(Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-1-5: APPROVALS NECESSARY FOR ACCEPTANCE OF SUBDIVISION PLATS:
Before any plat shall be recorded or be of any validity, it shall be approved
by the council of the city of Frazee, after receiving review and recommendation
from the planning commission, as having fulfilled the requirements of this
title. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-1-6: COMPLIANCE:
No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to record in the Becker County
recorder's office or have any validity until the plat thereof has been
prepared, approved, and acknowledged in the manner prescribed by this title.
(Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-1-7: BUILDING PERMITS:
No zoning, building, or other permit shall be considered for issuance by the
city of Frazee for the use of any property or improvement to the land or to any
lot in a subdivision as defined herein, until all requirements of this title
have been fully complied with. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-1-8: LAND SUITABILITY:
Each lot created through subdivision, including planned unit developments, must
be suitable in its natural state for the proposed use with minimal alteration.
Suitability analysis shall consider susceptibility to flooding, existence of
wetlands, soil and rock formations with severe limitations for development,
severe erosion potential, steep topography, inadequate water supply or sewage
treatment capabilities, near shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water
based recreation, important fish and wildlife habitat, presence of significant
historic sites, or any other feature of the natural land likely to be harmful
to the health, safety, or welfare of future residents of the proposed
subdivision or county. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
FR929Â Â Â 11-2.TXT
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
11-2-1: Rules
11-2-2: Headings
11-2-3: Definitions
11-2-1: RULES:
For the purpose of this title, words used in the present tense shall include
the future; words in the singular shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular; and the word "shall" is mandatory and not discretionary. (Ord. 139,
4-11-2011)
11-2-2: HEADINGS:
Headings used in this title are for convenience only and do not define, limit
or construe the contents of this title. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-2-3: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are hereby defined as
follows:
ALLEY: A public right of way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
BLOCK: An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by street,
or by streets and the exterior boundary or boundaries of the subdivision, or a
combination of the above with a river or a lake.
BOULEVARD: The portion of the street right of way between the curb line and the
property line.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind, and includes any
structure.
CITY COUNCIL: The governing body of the city of Frazee.
CITY OR FRAZEE: The city of Frazee, Minnesota.
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION: The city of Frazee planning commission.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: The group of maps, charts and texts that make up the
comprehensive long range plan of the city.
CUL-DE-SAC: A minor street or road with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
DESIGN STANDARDS: The specifications to land owners or subdividers for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among other
things, the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of such items as rights of
way, blocks, easements and lots.
EASEMENT: A grant by a property owner for the use of land for the purpose of
constructing and maintaining drives and utilities, including, but not limited
to, wetlands, ponding areas, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines,
telephone lines, storm sewers, or storm drainageways and gas lines.
FINAL PLAT: A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all of the requirements
of the city and in such form as required by Becker County for the purposes of
recording.
GREEN SPACE: An area of grass, trees, or other vegetation set apart for
recreational or aesthetic purposes in an otherwise urban environment.
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM: A facility for receiving or treating sewage
which is not a part of or connected to a public sewer system.
LOT: A parcel or portion of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum
zoning requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and
other open spaces herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an improved
public street.
LOT AREA: The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot exclusive of
any portion of the right of way of any public roadway.
LOT DEPTH: The distance between the midpoint of the front line and the midpoint
of the rear lot line.
LOT IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other object,
or improvement of the land on which they are situated constituting a physical
betterment of real property, or any part of such betterment.
LOT LINE: The property line bounding a lot except where any portion of a lot
extends into the public right of way, the line of such public right of way
shall be the lot line.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street, and in the case of a corner lot, it shall be the shortest
dimension on a public street.
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is opposite to the front lot line.
If the rear lot line is less than ten feet (10') in length, or if the lot forms
a point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be a line ten feet (10') in length
within the lot, parallel to, and at the maximum distance from the front lot
line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a rear
lot line.
LOT WIDTH: The maximum horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a lot
measured parallel to the front lot line and at the rear of the required front
yard setback.
METES AND BOUNDS: A method of describing property lines by means of their
direction and distance from an easily identifiable point.
PARCEL: An area of land established by plat, metes and bounds, registered land
survey, auditor's plat, or other acceptable means and separated from other
parcels or portions by said description for the purpose of sale, lease, or
separation.
PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS: Public lands and open spaces in the city of Frazee
dedicated or reserved for recreation purposes.
PEDESTRIANWAY: A public or private right of way across a block or within a
block to provide access for pedestrians and which may be used for the
installation of utility lines.
PERCENTAGE OF GRADE: On street centerline, means the distance vertically (up or
down) from the horizontal in feet and tenths of a foot for each one hundred
feet (100') of horizontal distance.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A tentative drawing or map of a proposed subdivision meeting
the requirements herein enumerated.
PROTECTIVE COVENANTS: Contracts made between private parties as to the manner
in which land may be used, with the view to protecting and preserving the
physical and economic integrity of any given area.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrianway, tree, lawn, off street parking area, lot improvements, or other
facility for which the city may ultimately assume the responsibility for
maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement for which local
government responsibility is established.
RIGHT OF WAY: Land dedicated and publicly owned for use as a street or for
other public purposes.
SAFE ROUTES TO SCHOOL (SRTS) PROGRAM: SRTS is a federal, state and local effort
to improve the health and wellbeing of children by enabling and encouraging
children, including those with disabilities, to walk and bicycle to school;
make bicycling and walking to school a safer and more appealing transportation
option, thereby encouraging a healthy and active lifestyle from an early age;
and to facilitate the planning, development and implementation of projects and
activities that will improve safety and reduce traffic, fuel consumption and
air pollution in the vicinity of schools.
SETBACK: The distance between a building and the property line nearest thereto.
STREET: A public right of way affording primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, road, avenue, boulevard, place or however otherwise
designated.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between lines of lots delineating the
street's right of way.
STREETS; COLLECTOR STREETS: Those streets which are used primarily for access
to abutting properties and for local traffic movement.
STREETS; THOROUGHFARES OR ARTERIAL STREETS: Those streets carrying larger
volumes of traffic and intended to provide for collection and distribution of
traffic between highways and collector streets.
SUBDIVIDER: Any individual firm, association, syndicate, copartnership,
corporation, trust or other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interests in the land sought to be subdivided to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under this title.
SUBDIVISION: A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided into
two (2) or more lots or parcels, any of which resultant parcels is less than
five (5) acres in area, for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building
development, or, if a new street or road is involved, any division of a parcel
of land. The term includes resubdivision and, where it is appropriate to the
context, relates either to the process of subdividing or to the land
subdivided.
TANGENT: A straight line that is perpendicular to the radius of a curve where a
tangent meets a curve.
VERTICAL CURVE: The surface curvature on a road or highway centerline located
between lines of different percentage of grade. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011; amd. Ord.
177, 10-9-2024)
CHAPTER 3
PLATTING PROCEDURES
SECTION:
11-3-1: Preliminary Plat
11-3-2: Final Plat
11-3-1: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The following procedures shall be followed in the administration of this title
and no real property within the jurisdiction of this title shall be subdivided
and offered for sale or a plat recorded until these requirements are met:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Procedure:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Filing: Nine (9) copies of the preliminary plat, the requirements of
which are set forth in this title, shall be submitted to the city administrator
at the city office at least thirty (30) days prior of the next regularly
scheduled planning commission meeting. The preliminary plat shall be
accompanied by a fee as established by resolution of the city council. Such
fees to be used for the expense of the city in connection with the review,
inspection, approval or disapproval of said plat which may thereafter be
submitted.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Review: The city administrator may instruct the city engineer and
city staff to prepare technical reports where appropriate and to provide
general assistance in preparing a recommendation on the action to the planning
commission. Pursuant to Minnesota statute 462.358 subdivision 3, as it may be
amended from time to time, requires that approval or disapproval of the
preliminary plat must be within one hundred twenty (120) days of the completed
application.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Approval Of The City Planning Commission: The city planning
commission shall hold a public hearing on said preliminary plat. Notice of
public hearing shall be published in a paper of general circulation and sent to
property owners within one hundred fifty feet (150') of the property to be
subdivided at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing date. Public notice
shall consist of a general description of the proposal, the time, date and
place of hearing. For the purpose of notification, ownership of property within
one hundred fifty feet (150') shall be determined by the tax record for the
previous year. In case the plat is disapproved, the subdivider shall be
notified in writing of the reason for such action and what requirements will be
necessary to meet the approval of the planning commission.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Approval Of The City Council: After the public hearing and review of
the preliminary plat by the planning commission, such preliminary plat,
together with the recommendations of the planning commission, shall be
submitted to the city council for consideration at their next regularly
scheduled meeting. Approval or disapproval of the preliminary plat shall be
conveyed to the subdivider in writing within thirty (30) days after the meeting
of the city council at which such plat was considered. In case the plat is
disapproved, the subdivider shall be notified of the reason for such action and
what requirements will be necessary to meet the approval of the city council.
The approval of the preliminary plat does not constitute an acceptance of the
subdivision, but is deemed to be an authorization to proceed with the final
plat. This approval of the preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of
one year, unless an extension is granted by the city of Frazee. The subdivider
may file a final plat limited to such portion of the preliminary plat which he
proposes to record and develop at the time, provided that such portion must
conform to all requirements of this title. If some portion of the final plat
has not been submitted for approval within this period, a preliminary plat must
again be submitted to the planning commission and the city council for
approval.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Data Required: The subdivider shall prepare and submit a preliminary
plat as follows, together with any necessary supplementary information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Contents: The preliminary plat shall contain the following
information:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Proposed Name: Proposed name of subdivision; names shall not
duplicate or too closely resemble names of existing subdivisions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Legal Description: Legal description and total acreage of the
property to be subdivided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Subdivider Information: Names and addresses of the subdivider and
the designer making the plat.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Scale Of Plat: Graphic scale of plat, not less than one inch (1")
to one hundred feet (100').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Date; North Point: Date and north point.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â Existing Conditions:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â Location, width, and name or identifying number of each
existing or platted street, road or other public way, railroad, utility
easements, parks and other public open spaces, and permanent buildings, within
or adjacent to the proposed subdivision.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â If the proposed subdivision is a rearrangement or a replat of
any former plat, the lot and block arrangement of the original plat along with
its original names, shall be indicated by dotted or dashed lines. Also, any
revised or vacated roadways or easements of the original plat shall be so
indicated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â All existing sewers, water mains, gas mains, culverts, storm
drains, power or communication cables or other underground installations within
the proposed subdivision or immediately adjacent thereto.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Proposed Development:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (1)Â Â Â The location and width of proposed streets (including
proposed names of streets in conformance with city and county street
identification policies), roads, alleys, pedestrianways and easements.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (2)Â Â Â Where the subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is
being proposed for the subdivision, it shall be required that the subdivider
submit a sketch plan of the remainder of the property so as to show the
possible relationship between the proposed subdivision and the future
subdivision. In any event, all subdivisions shall be required to relate well
with existing and potential adjacent subdivisions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (3)Â Â Â Layout, numbers and approximate dimensions of lots and the
number or letter of each block.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (4)Â Â Â The location and character of all proposed public utility
lines including sewers (storm and sanitary), water, gas and power lines.
Extension of an existing community water and sewer system shall be used
wherever feasible. All extensions and connections to the municipal system shall
be approved by the city engineer and supervised by the city public works
department.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (5)Â Â Â Location and size of proposed parks, playgrounds, churches,
school sites, or other special uses of land to be considered for dedication to
public use, or to be reserved by deed of covenant for the use of all property
owners in the subdivision and any conditions of such dedication or reservation.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (6)Â Â Â Building setback lines with dimensions.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (7)Â Â Â Existing topography, with contour intervals of not less than
five feet (5'), related to United States geological survey datum; also the
location of watercourses, ravines, bridges, lakes, springs, near shore aquatic
vegetation, wetlands, wooded areas, bluffs, steep slopes, rock outcroppings,
approximate acreage, and other such features as may be pertinent to the
subdivision.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (8)Â Â Â Proposed surface drainage diagrams for lots in the form of
arrows, proposed contours or other appropriate method, and proposed stormwater
management plan.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â (9)Â Â Â Ordinary high water level or highest known high water level.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Supplementary Requirements: Upon request of the planning commission,
supplementary information shall be submitted; such supplementary information
may include, but is not limited to, the following:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â A copy of proposed protective covenants.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Two (2) copies of profiles for each proposed street and road,
showing existing grades and proposed approximate grades and gradients on the
centerline. The location of proposed culverts and bridges shall also be shown.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Vicinity sketch, at a legible scale, to show the relation of the
plat to its surroundings.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Soil tests and reports, as specified by the city engineer, by an
approved soils laboratory.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Statement of the proposed use of lots stating type of buildings
with number of proposed dwelling units or type of business or industry, so as
to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, fire hazards, and
congestion of population.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan
for the areas, including dimensions, shall be shown. Such proposed zoning plan
shall be for information only and shall not vest any rights in the applicant.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Vegetation preservation and protection plan that shows those
trees proposed to be removed, those to remain, the types and locations of trees
and other vegetation that are to be planted. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011; amd. Ord.
177, 10-9-2024)
11-3-2: FINAL PLAT:
After the preliminary plat has been approved, the final plat may be submitted
for approval as follows:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Procedure:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Filing: Nine (9) copies of the final plat, the requirements of which
are set forth in this title, shall be submitted to the city administrator at
the city office at least thirty (30) days prior of the next regularly scheduled
planning commission meeting.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Review: The city administrator and other city staff shall check the
final plat to see that it is in substantial conformity with the preliminary
plat as approved by the city council, including any special conditions added by
the city council, and prepare a recommendation to the planning commission.
Pursuant to Minnesota statute 462.358 subdivision 3, as it may be amended from
time to time, approval or disapproval of the final plat must be within sixty
(60) days of the submission for the final approval.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Approval Of The City Planning Commission: The planning commission
shall review said final plat at the following regularly scheduled meeting. In
case the plat is disapproved, the subdivider shall be notified of the reason
for such action and what requirements shall be necessary to meet the approval
of the planning commission.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Approval Of The City Council: After review and approval of the final
plat by the planning commission, such final plat, together with the
recommendation of the planning commission, shall be submitted to the city
council for action. If accepted, the final plat shall be approved by
resolution, which resolution shall provide for the acceptance of all streets,
roads, alleys, easements, or other public ways, and parks, or other open spaces
dedicated to public purposes. If disapproved, the grounds for any refusal to
approve a plat shall be set forth in the proceedings of the board and reported
to the subdivider applying for such approval within thirty (30) days.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Recording: If the final plat is approved by the city council, the
subdivider shall record it with the Becker County recorder within ninety (90)
days after said approval, or approval of the final plat shall be considered
void, unless a request for time extension is submitted in writing and approved
by the city council. No zoning or other permits shall be issued for any lot in
said plat until the city has received evidence of the plat being recorded by
Becker County.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Data Required: The subdivider shall submit a final plat together with
any necessary supplementary information.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Recording Fee: The filing should be accompanied by the fees for
recording the plat with the county recorder.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Contents: The final plat, prepared for recording purposes, shall be
prepared in accordance with provisions of Minnesota state statutes and as
required below:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Name of the subdivision, which shall not duplicate or too closely
approximate the name of any existing subdivision.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Location by section, township, range, county and state, and
including descriptive boundaries of the subdivision, based on an accurate
traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions which must mathematically close
and which boundaries must be shown in relation to a known section, quarter
section or quarter-quarter section corner, or subdivision plat of record. The
allowable error of closure on any portion of a final plat shall be one-tenth
(0.1) of one foot (1').
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â The location of monuments shall be shown and described on the
final plat. Permanent markers shall be placed at each corner of every block or
portion of a block, points of curvature and points of tangency or road lines,
and at each angle point on the boundary of the subdivision. A permanent marker
shall be deemed to be a steel rod or pipe, one-half inch (1/2") or larger in
diameter marked with the surveyor's registration number. In situations where
conditions prohibit the placing of markers in the locations prescribed above,
offset markers will be permitted. The exact location of all markers shall be
shown on the final plat, together with accurate bearings and distances.
Permanent monuments shall be placed at all quarter section and quarter corners
within the subdivision or on its perimeter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Location of lots, streets, roads, highways, alleys, parks and
other features, with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet with the
length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground shall be shown. Dimensions shall
be shown from all angle points of curve to lot lines.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â e.Â Â Â Lots shall be numbered clearly. Blocks are to be numbered, with
numbers shown clearly in the center of the block.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â f.Â Â Â The exact locations, widths, and names of all roads to be
dedicated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â g.Â Â Â Location and width of all easements to be dedicated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â h.Â Â Â Scale of plat (the scale to be shown graphically and in feet per
inch), date, and north point.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â i.Â Â Â Statement dedicating all easements as follows: Easements for
installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved
over, under and along the strips marked "utility easements".
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â j.Â Â Â Statement dedicating all streets, alleys, and other public areas
not previously dedicated as follows: Streets, alleys, and other public areas
shown on this plat and not heretofore dedicated to public use are hereby so
dedicated.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Opinion Of Attorney: The subdivider shall submit with the final plat
an opinion by an attorney admitted to the practice of law in the state of
Minnesota certifying that the developer has good and marketable title to the
property being subdivided including any property being dedicated to the public
use.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Certifications Required:
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Notarized certification by owner, and by any mortgage holder of
record, of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets, roads, and
other public areas.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Notarized certification by a registered land surveyor, to the
effect that the plat represents a survey made by him and that monuments and
markers shown therein exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic
details are correct.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Certification showing that all taxes and special assessments
currently due on the property have been paid in full.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Space for certificates of approval to be filled in by the
signatures of the mayor and city clerk-administrator. The form of certificate
by the city council is as follows:
Approved by the City of Frazee, Minnesota, this Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â  day of
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â , Â Â Â Â Â .
Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Signed:Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Mayor
Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Attest:Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â 
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Secretary
(Ord. 139, 4-11-2011; amd. Ord. 177, 10-9-2024)
CHAPTER 4
DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-4-1: Blocks
11-4-2: Lots
11-4-3: Streets And Alleys
11-4-4: Easements
11-4-1: BLOCKS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Block Length: In general, intersecting street, determining block
lengths, shall be provided at such intervals as to serve cross traffic
adequately and to meet existing streets. Where no existing plats control, the
blocks in residential subdivisions shall normally not exceed one thousand three
hundred twenty feet (1,320') nor be less than four hundred feet (400') in
length, except where topography or other conditions justify a departure from
this maximum. In blocks longer than eight hundred feet (800'), pedestrianways
and/or easements through the block may be required near the center of the
block.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Block Width: The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow two (2) tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business
or industrial use shall be of such width as to be considered most suitable for
their respective use, including adequate space for off street parking and
deliveries. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-4-2: LOTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Area: The minimum lot area, lot width, and lot depth shall conform to
the requirements of the zoning district in which the plat is situated as
required by the Frazee zoning ordinance.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Corner Lots: Corner lots for residential use shall have additional
width to permit appropriate building setback from both streets as required by
the Frazee zoning ordinance.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Side Lot Lines: Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right
angles to street lines or radial to curved street lines.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Frontage: Every lot must have the minimum frontage on a city approved
street other than an alley, as required in the Frazee zoning ordinance.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Frontage On Two Streets: Double frontage, or lots with frontage on two
(2) parallel streets, shall not be permitted except where lots back on a
highway or other arterial street, or where topographic or other conditions
render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. Such double frontage lots shall have
an additional ten feet (10') in order to allow space for screen planting along
the back lot line.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Setback Lines: Setback or building lines shall be shown on all lots and
shall not be less than the setbacks required by the city of Frazee zoning
ordinance.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Watercourses: Lots abutting a watercourse, wetland, ponding area, or
stream shall have additional depth and width, as required by the Frazee zoning
ordinance and Frazee shoreland management ordinance.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Features: In the subdividing of any land, due regard shall be shown for
all natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots, or
similar situations which if preserved will add attractiveness and stability to
the proposed development. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-4-3: STREETS AND ALLEYS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Streets, Continuous: Except for cul-de-sacs, streets shall connect with
streets already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions, or provide for
future connections to adjoining unsubdivided tracts, or shall be a reasonable
projection of streets in the nearest subdivided tracts. The arrangement of
streets shall be considered in their relation to the reasonable circulation of
traffic, to topographic conditions, to runoff of stormwater, to public
convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses
of the area to be served.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Local Streets And Dead End Streets: Local streets should be so planned
as to discourage their use by nonlocal traffic. Dead end streets are
prohibited, but proper cul-de-sacs will be permitted where topography or other
conditions justify their use. Cul-de-sacs shall not be longer than five hundred
feet (500'), include a terminal turnaround which shall be provided at the
closed end, with a right of way radius of not less than seventy feet (70').
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Street Plans For Future Subdivisions: Where the plat to be submitted
includes only part of the tract owned or intended for development by the
subdivider, a tentative plan of a proposed future street and road system for
the portion shall be prepared and submitted by the subdivider, if required.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Provisions For Resubdivision Of Large Lots And Parcels: When a tract is
subdivided into larger than normal building lots or parcels, such lots or
parcels shall be so arranged as to permit the logical location and openings of
future roads and appropriate resubdivision, with provision for adequate utility
connections for such resubdivision.
Â Â Â E.Â Â Â Street Intersections: Streets shall be designed so as to intersect as
nearly as possible at right angles, except where topography or other conditions
justify variations. Under normal conditions, the minimum angle of intersection
of streets shall be eighty degrees (80Â°). Road intersection jogs with an offset
of less than one hundred twenty five feet (125') shall be avoided.
Â Â Â F.Â Â Â Subdivision Abutting Major Rights Of Way: Wherever the proposed
subdivision contains or is adjacent to the right of way of a state or federal
highway, provision may be made for a frontage road approximately parallel and
adjacent to the boundary of such right of way, or for a street at a distance
suitable for the appropriate use of land between such road and right of way.
Such distance shall be determined with due consideration for the minimum
distance required for approach connections to future grade separations, or for
lot depths.
Â Â Â G.Â Â Â Sidewalks: In those cases where the city council deems appropriate and
necessary, sidewalks of not less than four feet (4') in width shall be
provided. In all cases where sidewalks are provided, provisions shall be made
for handicapped access.
Â Â Â H.Â Â Â Alleys: Alleys shall be provided in commercial and industrial districts
to provide off street service access, except that this requirement may be
waived where other definite and assured provision is made for service access,
such as on site loading, unloading and parking consistent with and adequate for
the uses proposed. Except where justified by special conditions, such as the
continuation of an existing alley in the same block, alleys will not be
approved in residential districts. Alleys, where provided, shall not be less
than thirty feet (30') wide. Dead end alleys shall be avoided wherever
possible, but if unavoidable, such dead end alleys may be approved if adequate
turnaround facilities are provided at the closed end.
Â Â Â I.Â Â Â Half Streets: Dedication of half streets or roads will not be approved,
except where it is essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision
and in conformity with the other requirements of these regulations, and where
it is found that it will be practical to require the dedication of the other
half when the adjoining property is subdivided or where it becomes necessary to
acquire the remaining half by condemnation so that it may be improved in the
public interest.
Â Â Â J.Â Â Â Street Right Of Way Width: For all public ways hereafter dedicated, the
minimum right of way widths for streets, alleys, and pedestrianways included in
any subdivision shall not be less than the minimum dimensions for each
classification as follows:
All streets: Sixty six feet (66').
Alley: Thirty feet (30').
Pedestrianway: Ten feet (10').
Â Â Â K.Â Â Â Street Grades: Except when, upon the recommendation of the city
engineer, the topography warrants a greater maximum, the grades on all streets
and alleys in any subdivision shall not be greater than as follows:
Arterial street: Four percent (4%).
Collector street: Five percent (5%).
Alleys: Eight percent (8%).
In addition, there shall be a minimum grade on all streets of not less than
five-tenths (5/10) of one percent (1%).
Â Â Â L.Â Â Â Street Alignment: The horizontal and vertical alignment standards on
all roads, highways and streets shall be as follows:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Horizontal: Radii of centerline:
Arterial street: Five hundred feet (500'), minimum.
Collector street: Four hundred feet (400'), minimum.
Alley: One hundred fifty feet (150'), minimum.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Vertical: All changes in street grades shall be connected by
vertical parabolic curves of such length as follows:
Arterial street: Twenty (20) times the algebraic difference in the percent of
grade of the two (2) adjacent slopes.
Collector street: Ten (10) times the algebraic difference in the percent of
grade of the two (2) adjacent slopes.
Â Â Â M.Â Â Â Private Streets: All proposed streets or roads shall be offered for
dedication as public rights of way. No private streets or roads shall be
permitted. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-4-4: EASEMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Width And Location: An easement for utilities at least six feet (6')
wide, shall be provided along all lot lines. If necessary for the extension of
water main or sewer lines or similar utilities, easements of greater width may
be required along lot lines or across lots.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Continuous Utility Easement Location: Utility easements shall connect
with easements established in adjoining properties. These easements, when
approved, shall not thereafter be changed without the approval of the city
council, upon the recommendation of the planning commission.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Guywires: Additional easements for pole guys should be provided at the
outside of turns. Where possible, lot lines shall be arranged to bisect the
exterior angle so that pole guys will fall along side lot lines.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Watercourses: Where a subdivision contains or is traversed by a
watercourse, drainageway, or channel, there shall be provided a stormwater
easement, drainage right of way, or park dedication conforming substantially
with the lines of such watercourse, together with such further width or
construction or both as will be adequate for the stream channel. The width of
such easements shall be determined by the city engineer. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
FR929Â Â Â 11-5.txt
CHAPTER 5
BASIC IMPROVEMENTS
SECTION:
11-5-1: General
11-5-2: Improvements
11-5-3: Parks And Open Space Criteria
11-5-1: GENERAL:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Approval:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Before the city council approves a final plat, the subdivider shall
give satisfactory assurance of the provisions of this title will be provided.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â No final plat shall be approved by the city council without first
receiving a report from the city engineer certifying that the improvements
described herein, together with the agreements and documents required herein,
meet the minimum requirements of all applicable ordinances. All of the required
improvements to be installed under the provisions of this title shall be
inspected during the course of their construction by the city engineer and/or
public works superintendent. Upon completion of the improvements, drawings
showing all improvements "as built" shall be filed with the city engineer and
public works superintendent.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â The subdivider shall reimburse the city for all expense incurred by
the city for engineering, legal fees, and other expenses in connection with
such review, inspection, and installation of such improvements. The city may
require the subdivider to establish an escrow account in an amount determined
by the city to reimburse the city for such direct costs of professional
services.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â A certified copy of the plat restriction shall be filed with the
city clerk-administrator and Becker County recorder which shall include a
provision that, in all instruments of sale or conveyance given before all
street improvements have been made, the grantee shall agree to and approve such
improvements and the assessment of their cost.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Financing Of Improvements:
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Upon recommendation of the city engineer and with approval of the
city council, any or all of the required improvements may be financed and
assessed by the city pursuant to Minnesota statute 429. Length of assessment
period and rate of interest shall be determined by the city council. The city
retains the right to require additional provisions of the developer in
providing financing, including financial security for the payment of the
special assessments, as agreed upon in a development agreement with the
subdivider and city.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â If deemed advisable and to be in the best interests of the city, the
city council may require the developer to finance and pay for any or all
improvements. Prior to the making of such required improvements, the owner or
subdivider shall deposit with the city clerk-administrator an amount equal to
the city engineer's estimated cost of any or all such improvements which are to
be financed by the developer, either in cash or an indemnity bond, with
sureties to the satisfaction of the city, conditioned upon the payment of all
construction costs incurred in making such improvements and all expense
incurred by the city for engineering and legal fees and other expense in
connections with the making of such improvements. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-5-2: IMPROVEMENTS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â The city will construct, furnish, and install the following
improvements in accordance to city specification.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Street Lighting: Street lighting shall be constructed by the city,
preferably after curb and gutter have been installed. If additional or other
type of lighting is desired by the developer, the increased cost for such shall
be paid by the developer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Signs: Street name signs and traffic control signs shall be
installed conforming to the "Minnesota Manual On Uniform Traffic Control
Devices" and city specifications.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â The subdivider shall pay the proportionate amount of the following
improvements in accordance with section 11-5-1 of this chapter.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 1.Â Â Â Site Grading: Necessary site grading shall be accomplished by the
subdivider in accordance to the elevations approved by the city engineer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 2.Â Â Â Street Improvements: Street improvements consisting of grading and
base material, paving, and curb and gutter shall be constructed in accordance
with plans as approved by the city engineer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â Streets shall be graded for the total width of the right of way
and to the elevations as approved by the city engineer. A minimum of four
inches (4") of granular base material shall be applied to the width necessary
for the street surface. More base material should be applied if required to
stabilize the roadbed.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â All dedicated roadways shall have a roadbed of not less than
twenty four feet (24') in width when a permanent gravel surface is anticipated
and not less than thirty two feet (32') when a bituminous surface is
anticipated. All cul-de-sacs, regardless of surface type, shall have a minimum
traveled surface diameter of one hundred feet (100'). Where graveling is
required, the minimum gravel thickness shall be three inches (3") compacted or
four inches (4"). Paving shall be done in accordance with the standards and
specifications of the city engineer. If the plat is located within the city
limits, paving of all streets will be required. If the plat is located within
the township at the time of the subdivision request, the streets shall comply
with the minimum standards of the township in which the plat is located.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Curb and gutter shall be constructed as required by the city
council, with recommendation from the city engineer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 3.Â Â Â Stormwater Management: Stormwater management plans shall be approved
and constructed in accordance with the recommendation of the city engineer.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â a.Â Â Â When possible, development must be planned and conducted in a
manner that will minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities,
erosion potential, and delay runoff volumes.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â b.Â Â Â Erosion and siltation control measures shall be coordinated with
the different stages of construction. Appropriate control measures shall be
installed prior to development to control erosion. Disturbed areas must be
stabilized and protected as soon as possible.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â c.Â Â Â Where the topsoil is removed, sufficient arable soil shall be set
aside for respreading over the developed area. Topsoil shall be restored or
provided to a depth of four inches (4") and shall be of a quality at least to
the soil prior to development.
Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â d.Â Â Â Storm sewers, culverts, stormwater inlets, stormwater ponds, and
other drainage facilities will be required where they are necessary to ensure
adequate stormwater drainage for the subdivision and for protection of lakes,
watercourses, and wetlands.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 4.Â Â Â Water Supply: Wherever connection with a community or public water
system is available, the public water system shall be used. Where it is neither
practical nor economical for the city to extend public water service, private
water supplies shall be constructed according to city and state specifications.
Â Â Â Â Â Â 5.Â Â Â Sanitary Sewer: Wherever public sanitary sewer is or will be
available at the boundary of a subdivision, the subdivider shall be required to
install sanitary sewers and lift stations, as needed, and connect to the public
system. Where it is neither practical nor economical for the city to extend
public sewer service, private individual sewage treatment systems shall be
constructed according to city and state specifications. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011;
amd. Ord. 177, 10-9-2024)
11-5-3: PARKS AND OPEN SPACE CRITERIA:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Dedication Of Parks And Recreational Land For Residential Areas: Upon
request of the city council, in consideration of the particular type of
residential development proposed, the subdivider shall be required to dedicate
and deed to the city such areas of a character, extent, and location suitable
to the needs created by such development for park and other recreational
purposes. It is hereby found and declared that at the time of platting it is
reasonable to require an amount of land equal to six percent (6%) of the land
proposed to be subdivided for parks and recreation purposes.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Alternative: As an alternative, if the land proposed for dedication
does not meet the needs of the area, the city council may require the
subdivider to pay in cash an amount equal to six percent (6%) of the fair
market value of the undeveloped land as defined in these regulations in lieu of
the dedication of the land. The fair market value shall be determined by the
city assessor's office. For purposes of this section only, undeveloped land
shall be defined as bare, platted land after utilities, streets and other
normal improvements are in place. The cash payment shall be used for the
purchase of the land or the development of existing or future parks and
playgrounds in the same general area. When land is dedicated and deeded to the
city for park purposes, it shall be the responsibility of the city parks
department to maintain such dedicated property. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
FR929Â Â Â 11-6.txt
CHAPTER 6
REGISTERED SURVEYS AND CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS
SECTION:
11-6-1: Registered Land Surveys
11-6-2: Conveyance By Metes And Bounds
11-6-1: REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS:
It is the intention of this title that all registered land surveys in the city
of Frazee shall be presented to the planning commission and the city council in
the form of a preliminary plat in accordance with the standards set forth in
this title for preliminary plats and that the planning commission and city
council shall first approve the arrangement, sizes, and relationships of
proposed tracts in such registered land surveys, and that tracts to be used as
easements or roads should be so dedicated. Unless such approvals have been
obtained from the planning commission and city council in accordance with the
standards set forth in this title, building permits will be withheld on tracts
which have been so subdivided by registered land surveys and the city may
refuse to take over tracts as streets or roads, or to improve, repair or
maintain any such tracts unless so approved. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-6-2: CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Restrictions: No division of one or more parcels in which the land
conveyed is described by metes and bounds shall be made or recorded if the
parcels described in the conveyance are five (5) acres or less in area, unless
such parcel was a separate parcel or record at the effective date hereof, or
unless a surveyor's sketch is first submitted to the office of the city clerk
and presented to the county recorder along with a copy of the conveyance.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Surveyor's Sketch: The surveyor's sketch shall contain the same
information required by subsection 11-3-2B of this title except that: 1) no
permanent monuments need be set and 2) if the sole purpose of the conveyance is
to modify a boundary line, only the modified boundary line need be shown on the
sketch.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Enforcement: Building permits will be withheld on tracts which have
been subdivided and conveyed by metes and bounds without submission of a
surveyor's sketch and the city may refuse to take over tracts as streets or
roads or to improve, repair or maintain any such tracts. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
FR929Â Â Â 11-7.txt
CHAPTER 7
VARIANCES FROM STANDARDS
SECTION:
11-7-1: Findings
11-7-2: Procedure
11-7-1: FINDINGS:
The city council, with recommendation from the planning commission, may grant a
variance from the minimum standards of this title (not procedural provisions)
when, in its opinion, unusual hardship may result from strict compliance. In
granting any variance, the city council shall prescribe any conditions that it
deems necessary to or desirable for the public interest. The city council shall
take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing use
of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the
proposed subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon
traffic conditions in the vicinity. A variance shall only be granted when the
city council finds:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of the land.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety, and welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in
which the property is situated.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â That the variance is to correct inequities resulting from an extreme
physical hardship such as topography, etc. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-7-2: PROCEDURE:
Â Â Â A.Â Â Â Filing: Requests for a variance or appeal shall be filed with the city
clerk-administrator on an official application form at least thirty (30) days
prior to the next regularly scheduled planning commission meeting. Such
application shall be accompanied by a fee as established by city council
resolution. Such application shall also be accompanied by five (5) copies of
detailed written and graphic materials necessary to explain the request.
Â Â Â B.Â Â Â Review: The variance application shall be referred to the city staff
and city engineer for a report and recommendation to be presented to the
planning commission. The city staff and city engineer shall have the authority
to request additional information from the applicant concerning the variance or
to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of the applicant
concerning said variance where said information is declared necessary to ensure
preservation of health, safety, and general welfare. The "60 day rule" as
established by Minnesota statute 15.99 applies to requests for variances;
therefore decisions on the variance must be made and communicated to the
applicant in writing within sixty (60) days of a completed application, except
when an extension of time is requested by the city as provided by Minnesota
statute 15.99 subdivision 3.
Â Â Â C.Â Â Â Approval Of The City Planning Commission: The city planning commission
shall hold a public hearing on said variance. Notice of public hearing shall be
published in a paper of general circulation and sent to property owners within
one hundred fifty feet (150') of the property to be subdivided at least ten
(10) days prior to the hearing date. Public notice shall consist of a general
description of the proposal, the time, date and place of hearing. For the
purpose of notification, ownership of property within one hundred fifty feet
(150') shall be determined by the tax record for the previous year.
Â Â Â D.Â Â Â Approval Of The City Council: After the public hearing and review of
the variance by the planning commission, such variance, together with the
recommendations of the planning commission, shall be submitted to the city
council for consideration at their next regularly scheduled meeting. Approval
or disapproval of the preliminary plat shall be conveyed to the subdivider in
writing within thirty (30) days after the meeting of the city council at which
such variance was considered. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
FR929Â Â Â 11-8.txt
CHAPTER 8
ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
11-8-1: Recorder's Responsibilities
11-8-2: Sale Of Lots From Unrecorded Plats
11-8-3: Misrepresentations As To Construction, Supervision, Or Inspection Of
Improvements
11-8-4: Penalty
11-8-5: Civil Enforcement
11-8-1: RECORDER'S RESPONSIBILITIES:
The county recorder shall submit to the city clerk-administrator copies of any
documents presented for filing which appear to be in violation of this title.
The city clerk-administrator shall examine each such instrument to determine
whether the proposed conveyance complies with this title. If the conveyance
does not comply with this title, the city clerk-administrator shall give notice
by mail of the potential violation to the parties to the conveyance. (Ord. 139,
4-11-2011)
11-8-2: SALE OF LOTS FROM UNRECORDED PLATS:
It shall be unlawful to sell, trade, or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of
land in violation of this title. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-8-3: MISREPRESENTATIONS AS TO CONSTRUCTION, SUPERVISION, OR INSPECTION OF
IMPROVEMENTS:
It shall be unlawful for any subdivider, person, firm or corporation owning an
addition or subdivision of land within the city to represent that any
improvement upon any of the streets or alleys of said addition or subdivision
or any sewer and water in said addition or subdivision has been constructed
according to the plans and specifications approved by the city engineer, or has
been supervised or inspected by the city, when such improvements have not been
so constructed, supervised, or inspected. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-8-4: PENALTY:
Anyone violating any of the provisions of this title shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Refusal to comply with this title after notice from the city that
a violation exists shall constitute a separate offense. This title may be
enforced through the city of Frazee administrative penalties ordinance in
addition to civil and misdemeanor prosecution. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
11-8-5: CIVIL ENFORCEMENT:
The city, in addition to other remedies, may institute other appropriate
actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or abate any violations or
threatened violations, and it shall be the duty of the city attorney to
institute such action. (Ord. 139, 4-11-2011)
Â 
