GOODVIEW, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-9 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 6-17-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 95
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF GOODVIEW, MN,
AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS, Minnesota Statutes Sections 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the City
to cause its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book,
   NOW THEREFORE, the City Council of the City of Goodview, MN, ordains:
   SECTION 1:   The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated,
revised, updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for
the violations of various provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Goodview.” This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
   SECTION 2:   The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
      Title I: General Provisions
      Title III: Administration
      Title V: Public Works
      Title VII: Traffic Code
      Title IX: General Regulations
      Title XI: Business Regulations
      Title XIII: General Offenses
      Title XV: Land Usage
      Table of Special Ordinances
      Parallel References
   SECTION 3:   All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in the Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public
use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor
shall this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature
or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of
Ordinances. All fees established in prior ordinances codified in this Code
shall remain in effect unless amended in this code or until an ordinance
adopting a fee schedule is adopted or amended.
   SECTION 4:   This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a
sufficient publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously
published in the City’s official newspaper. The Clerk of the City shall cause a
substantial quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general
distribution to the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code
of Ordinances to the County Court Administrator’s office or its designated
depository. The official copy of this Code of Ordinances shall be marked and be
kept in the office of the City Clerk.
   SECTION 5:   The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence
of the law of the City and shall be received in evidence as provided by
Minnesota Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
   SECTION 6:   This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
City’s official newspaper.
Passed and approved by the City Council of the City of Goodview, Minnesota this
18th day of October, 2010.
                     Approved:
                     /s/
                     Mayor
Attest:
/s/
Administrator
Published in the Winona Daily News on the          day of
                                , 2010.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Goodview City Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Goodview, Minnesota.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Winona, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases the, words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as
applied to any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall, in any way, be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   (A)   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date
of this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those
laws.
   (B)   This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code.
   (C)   The liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments,
penalties or forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not
been enacted.
   (D)   In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway
rights-of-way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers
shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   (A)   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Administrator for public inspection.
   (B)   The Administrator shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   All future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by
reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, the County
Sheriff or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any provision
of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Administrator shall have the authority to administer and enforce
this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the Administrator or City Council shall have
the authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any
person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Administrator and any city official or employee designated by
this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with
the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident
of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Administrator, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Administrator or any other authorized city officer or
employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given
to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property,
stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or
other person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Administrator to object to the termination before it occurs,
subject to appeal of the Administrator’s decision to the City Council at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Unless otherwise noted, the violation of any city ordinance,
heretofore enacted and in effect on 6-8-2007, shall constitute a misdemeanor
and shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed $1,000, by imprisonment in the
county jail for a period of not to exceed 90 days or both.
      (2)   This division (A) shall take effect on the day following its
publication in the official city newspaper. The ordinance codified herein was
published 6-7-2007.
   (B)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   Purpose. Administrative offense procedures established pursuant to
this section are intended to provide the public and the city with an informal,
cost effective and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for
violations of certain city code and state law provisions. The procedures are
intended to be voluntary on the part of those who have been charged with
administrative offenses. At any time prior to the payment of the administrative
penalty as provided for hereafter, the individual may withdraw from
participation in the procedures, in which event the city may bring criminal
charges in accordance with law. Likewise, the city, in its discretion, may
choose not to initiate an administrative offense and may bring criminal charges
in the first instance.
      (2)   “Administrative offense” defined. An ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE is a
violation of a provision of the city code or state law and is subject to the
administrative penalties set forth in the schedule of offenses and penalties
referred to herein. An administrative offense is not a crime. Administrative
citations shall not be used in cases involving personal injury, property damage
or where litigation is pending.
      (3)   Notice.
         (a)   The following employees of the city shall have the authority to
issue notices for administrative offenses:
            1.   The officers of the Police Department;
            2.   The Fire Chief of the Volunteer Fire Department or his or her
designee;
            3.   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee; and
            4.   The City Administrator or his or her designee.
         (b)   Upon determining that there has been a violation, a notice shall
be given to the violator, or in the case of a non-moving vehicular violation, a
notice of the violation may be attached to the vehicle. The notice shall set
forth the nature, date and time of the violation, the name of the official
issuing the notice and the amount of the scheduled penalty.
      (4)   Recording. The Police Department shall receive a copy of all
administrative citations issued, to enable accurate recordkeeping thereof and
to account for all payments received for administrative citations. If a
citation is dismissed or voided for any reason, it must be marked and filed as
such. All data collected and generated from the issuance of administrative
citations shall be filed in the Police Department.
      (5)   Payment. Once the notice is given, the alleged violator may, within
ten days of the time of issuance of the notice, pay the full amount set forth
on the schedule of penalties for the violation. The penalty may be paid in
person or by mail and payment shall be deemed to be an admission of the
violation.
      (6)   Court appearance request. Any person contesting an administrative
offense pursuant to this section may, within ten days of the time of the
issuance of the notice, submit a written request to the Police Department for a
court appearance. A person requesting a court appearance will be issued a
citation/summons for the violation and a court date will be set. The
administrative offense procedure will then terminate.
      (7)   Failure to pay. In the event a party charged with an administrative
offense fails to pay the penalty within ten days, or request a court appearance
within ten days, a misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor charge will be brought
against the alleged violator in accordance with applicable city ordinances or
state statutes. Upon issuance of the misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor charge,
the administrative offense procedure shall terminate. If the penalty is paid in
full within ten days, no similar charge may be brought by the city for the same
incident.
      (8)   Disposition of penalties. All penalties collected pursuant to this
section shall be paid to the city and deposited into the city’s General Fund.
      (9)   Offenses and penalties. Offenses which may be charged as
administrative offenses and the penalties for the offenses shall be established
by resolution by the city.
      (10)   Effective date. This division (B) shall be in force and effect
after its adoption by the City Council and its publication in the official
newspaper of the city, or 4-1-2009 whichever is later. The ordinance codified
herein was published on 3-20-2009.
   (C)   Traffic offenses.
      (1)   The city hereby authorizes the issuance of administrative citations
for traffic offenses designated at M.S. § 169.999, subd. 1(b)(1), (2) and (3),
as it may be amended from time to time;
      (2)   The city hereby sets the fine for committing an administrative
traffic violation designated by M.S. § 169.999 and this division at the amount
designated by M.S. § 169.999, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time;
      (3)   The city hereby directs that only licensed city peace officers may
issue administrative traffic citations authorized by this division;
      (4)   The city hereby directs that no city peace officer may issue an
administrative traffic citation in violation of M.S. § 169.999, as it may be
amended from time to time;
      (5)   The city hereby directs that no administrative traffic citation
authorized by this division may be issued to a holder of a commercial driver's
license or the driver of a commercial vehicle in which the administrative
violation was committed;
      (6)   The city hereby directs the appointment of a neutral third party to
hear and rule on challenges to administrative traffic citations authorized by
this division. Such appointment may be renewed annually at the first meeting of
the year as all other Council appointments, or more immediately as the Council
directs, in its sole, reasonable discretion;
      (7)   The city hereby adopts the uniform administrative traffic citation
form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety;
      (8)   The city hereby authorizes city staff to create materials as
necessary to supplement the uniform administrative traffic citation to provide
recipients of an administrative traffic citation with information related, but
not limited to, the recipient's right to challenge the citation; the city's
process for handling challenges to administrative traffic citations; the
location, dates, and times designated to hear traffic citation challenges; the
process for paying a traffic citation; and the effect of an administrative
traffic citation on a recipient's driving record;
      (9)   City staff is hereby directed to inform the Commissioner of Public
Safety of the passage of this division;
      (10)   City staff is hereby directed to separately account for
administrative traffic citations authorized by this division in city financial
reports, summaries, and audits in keeping with common accounting practices and
standards; and
      (11)   City staff is hereby directed to designate a special fund for the
portion of administrative traffic fines that must be spent on law enforcement
purposes, in keeping with common accounting practice and standards, and to
report annually, or as otherwise directed by Council, to the City Council on
said fund.
(Ord. 53.01, passed 6-4-2007; Ord. 91, passed 3-16-2009; Res. 0829, passed 7-
20-09)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GOVERNMENT GENERALLY
      
31.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
32.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: GOVERNMENT GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Criminal history background checks; employment and licensing
   
30.02   Special assessments
   
30.03   City Council meetings; days and times
   
30.04   Elections
   
30.05   Filing fee
City Organizations
   
30.15   Volunteer Fire Department
   
30.16   Board of Health
 
   
30.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECKS; EMPLOYMENT AND LICENSING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to the state’s computerized
criminal history information for specified non-criminal purposes of employment
background checks for the positions described below.
   (B)   Criminal history, employment background investigations.
      (1)   Generally. The Police Department is hereby authorized, as the
exclusive entity within the city, to do a criminal history background
investigation on the applicants for the following positions within the city,
unless the city’s hiring authority concludes that a background investigation is
not needed.
      (2)   Employment positions.
         (a)   All regular part-time or full-time employees of the city and
other positions that work with children or vulnerable adults.
         (b)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen employment applicants, the Police Department is authorized to
access data maintained in the State Bureau of Criminal Apprehensions
computerized criminal history information system in accordance with BCA policy.
Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at the Police
Department under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement official or
his or her designee. A summary of the results of the Computerized Criminal
History data may be released by the Police Department to the hiring authority,
including the City Council, the City Administrator or other city staff involved
in the hiring process.
         (c)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake the
investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 13, as may be amended from time to time, regarding the collection,
maintenance and use of the information. Except for the positions set forth in
M.S. § 364.09, as may be amended from time to time, the city will not reject an
applicant for employment on the basis of the applicant’s prior conviction
unless the crime is directly related to the position of employment sought and
the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor with a jail
sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request on this basis, the city
shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
            1.   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
            2.   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as may be amended from time to time;
            3.   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment;
and
            4.   All competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
   (C)   License and/or permit background checks; applicants for city licenses.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to the state’s computerized
criminal history information for specified non-criminal purposes of licensing
and/or permitting background checks.
      (2)   Criminal history, license and/or permit background investigations.
         (a)   The Police Department is hereby authorized, as the exclusive
entity within the city, to do a criminal history background investigation on
the applicants for the following licenses and/or permits within the city:
            1.   Applicant and/or owner of liquor establishment;
            2.   Peddler permit; and
            3.   All other license and/or permit applicants at the city’s
discretion.
         (b)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen license and/or permit applicants, the Police Department is
authorized to access data maintained in the State Bureau of Criminal
Apprehensions computerized criminal history information system in accordance
with BCA policy. Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at
the Police Department under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement
official or his or her designee. A summary of the results of the computerized
criminal history data may be released by the Police Department to the licensing
authority, including the City Council, the City Administrator or other city
staff involved in the license and/or permit approval process.
         (c)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake the
investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 13, as may be amended from time to time, regarding the collection,
maintenance and use of the information. Except for the positions set forth in
M.S. § 364.09, as may be amended from time to time, the city will not reject an
applicant for a license and/or permit on the basis of the applicant’s prior
conviction unless the crime is directly related to the license and/or permit
sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor
with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request on this
basis, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
            1.   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
            2.   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as may be amended from time to time;
            3.   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license
and/or permit; and
            4.   All competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect after
its adoption by the City Council and its publication in the official newspaper
of the city. The ordinance codified herein was published 3-20-2009.
(Ord. 90, passed 3-16-2009)
§ 30.02 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Authorization for pre-payments. Whenever the City Council shall,
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 429, as may be amended from time to time, adopt an
assessment roll setting forth special assessments for improvement projects,
then each property owner so assessed thereon, shall be entitled to pre-pay all
or part of the assessment in accordance with the conditions set forth herein.
      (2)   Partial pre-payment conditions. Whenever a property owner so
assessed desires to make a partial pre-payment of the assessment, he or she may
do so by making payment to the City Treasurer at any time prior to
certification of the assessment on the property to the County Auditor, with
interest at the then applicable rate accrued to the date of payment, except
that no interest shall be charged on any partial pre-payment paid within 30
days from the adoption of the assessment roll by the City Council. After
certification of the assessment to the County Auditor no pre-payment shall be
permitted, except that the owner may at any time prior to November 15 of any
year pre-pay to the Treasurer of the city the whole assessment remaining due,
except that the installment and interest in process of collection on the
current tax list shall be paid to the County Treasurer.
      (3)   Time limitation. The City Administrator is hereby authorized and
directed to select the final date upon which pre-payments shall be accepted by
the City Treasurer in a manner so as to allow a reasonable length of time to
extend all remaining unpaid assessment amounts into installments with interest
such that the roll may be submitted to the County Auditor on or before October
10 of the current year as required; however nothing contained in this section
or this division (A) shall be construed to require the city to provide more
than 30 days for the whole or partial prepayment of an assessment prior to
certification. The City Administrator is hereby further directed to give
written notice to each property owner so assessed of the final date upon which
whole or partial pre-payments will be accepted, however failure by the owner to
receive the notice shall not, in any way, invalidate the assessment
proceedings. The notice shall also be posted at City Hall.
      (4)   Effective date. This division (A) shall be in full force and effect
from and after its passage by the City Council and after its publication in the
official newspaper of the city. The ordinance codified herein was published on
4-25-1977.
   (B)   (1)   Generally. The City Council may, at its discretion and pursuant
to M.S. §§ 435.193 through 435.195, as may be amended from time to time, defer
the payment of certain special assessments in accordance with the guidelines
and procedures set forth in this division (B).
      (2)   Eligibility. Any person 65 years of age or older or any person
retired by virtue of permanent and total disability may apply, by September 30
of each year, for the deferral of payments of special assessments levied
against real property for public improvements because of undue hardship if the
following conditions are met.
         (a)   The applicant must be the fee simple owner of the property or
must be a contract vendee for fee simple ownership. An applicant must provide
either a recorded deed or contract for deed with the application to establish a
qualified ownership interest as required herein.
         (b)   The property must be the applicant’s principal place of domicile
and classified on the city’s and county’s real estate tax rolls as the
applicant’s homestead.
         (c)   The applicant’s adjusted gross income combined with the adjusted
gross income of all other joint tenants, tenants in common or contract vendees
in title to the property may not exceed 50% of the median income of the county
for the family size designated as established by the Department of Housing and
Urban Development (HUD). Adjusted gross incomes shall be those filed for
federal income tax purposes.
         (d)   The principal amount of the assessment exceeds $2,000.
         (e)   In the case of a person retired by virtue of a permanent and
total disability, verification of the disability by a medical doctor shall be
submitted with the application. The verification may include, but is not
limited to, the required designation by the Federal Social Security
Administration.
         (f)   Be willing to provide the city with such information as the city
may require to make a proper determination as to eligibility, including, but
not limited to, providing copies of the applicant’s state and federal income
tax returns.
         (g)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prohibit the
determination of hardship on the basis of exceptional and unusual circumstances
not covered by the conditions set forth herein. However, any determination
shall be made in a nondiscriminatory manner and the City Council shall not give
the applicant an unreasonable preference or advantage over other applicants.
      (3)   Interest on deferred assessment. All deferred special assessments
shall be subject to, and charged annually, the initial interest rate adopted at
the time the assessment was originally levied the interest shall be payable in
full upon termination of the deferred status.
      (4)   Annual review. The City Council shall annually review all
deferments previously made. The procedure shall be similar to that used for the
consideration of a new application. A determination shall be made concerning
hardship and whether the deferment shall be continued or whether immediate full
or partial payment shall be made.
      (5)   Termination of deferred status. Deferred special assessment
payments, plus applicable interest, shall become payable in whole effective
upon the occurrence of any one of the following events:
         (a)   Sale of property. The subject property is sold, transferred,
subdivided or, in any way, conveyed to another by the fee owner who was
qualified for deferral status;
         (b)   Death of owner. The death of the fee owner who was qualified for
deferral status unless a surviving spouse is eligible for the deferral benefit
provided hereunder;
         (c)   Nonhomestead property. The subject property loses its homestead
status for any reason; and
         (d)   No hardship. The City Council determines that there would be no
hardship to require an immediate or partial payment of the deferred special
assessment and accrued interest.
      (6)   Effective date. This division (B) shall be effective from and after
its passage and publication in the official newspaper of the city. The
ordinance codified herein was published 6-7-2007.
(Ord. 5, passed 4-18-1977; Ord. 75.1, passed - -2007)
§ 30.03 CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS; DAYS AND TIMES.
   (A)   Regular meetings. The regular meetings of the City Council shall be
held on the first and third Monday of each calendar month. The meetings shall
be called to order at 5:00 p.m. Any regular meeting date which fells on a legal
holiday shall be held on the Monday immediately following the legal holiday.
Upon due notice thereof, the City Council may hold a regular meeting at a
different time or place. The notice shall be as prescribed for a special
meeting.
   (B)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the City Council may be called
by the Mayor or by two members of the Council by filing appropriate written
notice with the City Administrator. All calls for special meetings shall
include the names and positions of person(s) calling the meeting, date, time
and place of the meeting, the questions to be considered and a request asking
the Administration to give Council members proper notice. Upon the call, the
Administrator shall mail notice to all Council members and post the date, time,
place and purpose three days before the meeting.
   (C)   Place of meetings. All regular meetings and special meetings shall be
held in the Council Chambers of the City Government, 4140 Fifth Street, or may
be relocated upon due notice thereof.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall be effective from and after its
adoption by the City Council and its publication in the official newspaper of
the city. The ordinance codified herein was published on 1-25-2007.
(Ord. 40.4, passed 1-22-2007)
§ 30.04 ELECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Date of election. The regular city election shall be held
biennially on the first Tuesday after the first Monday in November in every
even numbered year beginning with the 1974 election.
      (2)   Terms and transition. At each biennial city election commencing in
1974, the Mayor shall be elected for a two-year term and two Council members
shall be elected for four-year terms.
      (3)   Effective date. The ordinance codified in this division (A) was
published 9-3-1974.
   (B)   (1)   Municipal primary election established. There is hereby
established a municipal primary election to be held prior to each general
election.
      (2)   Time of the municipal primary election. The time of the municipal
primary election shall be the same as the state primary election.
      (3)   Purpose of the municipal primary election. The purpose of the
municipal primary election is to reduce the number of candidates to be placed
on the general election ballot to twice the number of persons to be elected to
an office.
      (4)   Exceptions. Where only twice the number of persons to be elected to
a municipal office, or less, have filed, then a municipal primary election for
that office shall not be held.
      (5)   Filing. Filing for an office shall be in the same manner as the
general election.
      (6)   Municipal primary election results. The municipal primary election
shall be conducted and the returns made in the manner provided for the state
primary so far as practicable. Within two days after the election, the City
Council shall canvass the returns of the municipal primary election, and the
two candidates for each office who receive the highest number of votes, or a
number of candidates equal to twice the number of persons to be elected to the
office, who receive the highest number of votes, shall be the nominees for the
office named, and their names shall be certified to the City Administrator who
shall place them on the general election ballot without partisan designation
and without payment of an additional fee.
      (7)   Other provisions. All other provisions of the municipal primary
election shall be followed in the same manner as the general election of state
statutes.
(Ord. 39.01, passed 8-19-1974; Ord. 80, passed 6-1-1998)
§ 30.05 FILING FEE.
   (A)   As allowed by M.S. § 205.13, Subd. 3(b)(3), a statutory city of the
fourth class may adopt, by ordinance, a filing fee of $15. (Note: State statute
originally set $2 as the filing fee for cities of the fourth class.)
   (B)   Failure to pay the required filing fee is declared to be a petty
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2016-01, passed 5-2-2016)
CITY ORGANIZATIONS
§ 30.15 VOLUNTEER FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Statutory authority. The State of Minnesota has in Laws of Minnesota,
Chapter 412, (Statutory Cities) M.S. § 412.221, as may be amended from time to
time, authorized local government to establish a fire department and to provide
for the regulation thereof.
   (B)   Fire Department established.
      (1)   Establishment, number of fire persons. There is hereby established
a Volunteer Fire Department which shall consist of not less than 20, nor more
than 36, volunteer fire persons.
      (2)   Organization.
         (a)   City department. The Fire Department as established in division
(B)(1) above shall be an integral department of the city organization and shall
function under the direction of the City Council or its authorized agents.
         (b)   Officers. The chief officer of the Fire Department shall be the
Fire Chief. Other officers shall consist of an Assistant Chief, Captain,
Lieutenant, Secretary, Treasurer and not more than six Fire Marshals. All
officers shall be selected by the membership annually at a meeting to be held
in September and shall there following be submitted to the City Council for
confirmation and approval. The Chief may delegate his or her authority and
responsibilities in whatever manner he or she deems appropriate for the proper
and efficient operation of the Department. Any officer or member of the
Department may be removed from the Department by the City Council for cause.
Officers shall be elected to a term of one year beginning October 1, annually.
         (c)   Operating regulations (by-laws). The Fire Chief shall be
responsible for the development and enforcement of appropriate operating
regulations, to be known as the Volunteer Fire Department by-laws. The by-laws,
as well as any subsequent proposed changes thereto, shall be presented to the
City Council for ratification. The City Council may, upon its own initiative,
change or modify these by-laws as it deems appropriate and in the best interest
of the city or membership of the Department.
         (d)   Annual report. The Chief of the Department shall submit a
written report on or before October 1 annually to the City Council consisting
of information such as the time, location, cause and type of fire alarms, name
of owner or tenant, purpose for which premises were occupied, value of building
and contents lost, members of the Department who responded and such other
information as the Council or administration may require from time to time. The
Chief shall also comply with all reporting requirements of all other
overlapping units of government.
   (C)   Relief association. The members and officers of the Fire Department
may organize themselves into a Firemen’s Relief Association in accordance with
state law.
   (D)   Interference with Department. It shall be unlawful for any person to
give or make, or cause to be given or made, an alarm of fire without probable
cause, or to neglect or refuse to obey any reasonable order of the Chief or his
or her agents at a fire, or to interfere with the Fire Department in the
discharge of its duties.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall be effective from and after its
adoption by the City Council. The ordinance codified herein was published on 2-
22-1987.
(Ord. 21.3, passed 12-1-1986) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.16 BOARD OF HEALTH.
   (A)   Board of Health; Health Officer. A Board of Health consisting of three
members shall be appointed annually by the Council. One member shall be
designated as the City Health Officer and executive of the Board.
   (B)   Meetings of Board. The Board of Health shall meet at the beginning of
each quarter of the calendar year on such day as it may fix and shall hold
special meetings upon the call of the Health Officer.
   (C)   Duties of Board. The Board of Health shall make investigations and
reports and shall obey such directions concerning communicable diseases as the
State Department of Health may require and shall enforce all laws concerning
public health. The Board may employ medical and other assistance as it deems
necessary for the control of communicable disease existing or threatened in the
city or for carrying out lawful regulations and directions of the State
Department of Health. All expenses thus properly incurred shall be paid and
thereafter certified to the County Auditor for allowance and payment of one-
half of the amount by the county as provided by law.
   (D)   Annual sanitary inspection. The Health Officer, or in the absence of
action by the Health Officer, the Board of Health, shall order and cause a
thorough inspection to be made in the month of May of each year by the
constables or other law enforcement officers of the city of all public and
private property in the city with respect to sanitation and disease. Notice of
the order for inspection shall be given prior to May 1 in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city or by posting a notice in five conspicuous
places in the city, requiring all owners or occupants of premises to clean all
yards, vaults, sewage disposal systems and buildings, and to remove or dispose
of all trash, rubbish, garbage, ashes, dead animals, manure or other
unwholesome substances in or on the premises, as well as accumulations of
materials in or upon any public ways or places. Any such substances found upon
inspection at that time or any other time during the year may be ordered
removed by the Health Officer or the Board of Health within the time as he, she
or it specifies, and he or she or the Board may cause removal thereof to be
made at the expense of the property owner upon failure to comply with the order
or orders and the expels shall be a lien upon the property and may be collected
as a special assessment. A report of the inspection shall be made to the
Council by June 1 following and a copy thereof furnished to the State
Department of Health by July 1 following.
   (E)   Other duties of Health Officer and Board. The health officer shall
execute all lawful orders of the Board of Health and State Department of
Health, and perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law. He or she
and members of the Board of Health, their agents or deputies, shall have access
to all premises within the city for the purpose of inspection for sanitary or
health purposes. The Health Officer shall take all steps required to prevent or
abate public health nuisances or unwholesome conditions, including, without
limitation, any causing disease or its spread or contamination or pollution of
drinking water or foods. The Health Officer is empowered on the direction of
the Board, or at his or her own discretion, from time to time to take and
examine samples of milk and milk products and other food products sold in the
city.
   (F)   Compensation. The Health Officer shall receive compensation for his or
her services as may be fixed by resolution of the Council.
(Ord. 18, passed 9-18-1950; Ord. passed 6-19-1961) Penalty, see §
30.99
§ 30.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating §
30.15 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person who willfully prevents or hinders the Health Officer or the
Board of Health of the city or his, her or its agents from entering premises in
the performance of his, her or its duties or interferes with the proper
performance of his, her or its duties or refuses to comply with an order issued
in conformance with §
30.16(D) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not less
than $1,000 and/or up to 90 days in jail, for each offense
(Ord. 18, passed 9-18-1950; Ord. passed 6-19-1961; Ord. 21.3, passed 12-1-1986)
CHAPTER 31: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
31.01   Policy and purpose
   
31.02   Definitions
   
31.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
31.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
31.05   Local emergencies
   
31.06   Emergency regulations
   
31.07   Emergency management a government function
   
31.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
31.99   Penalty
§ 31.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in order
to ensure that preparations of the city will be adequate to deal with those
disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to protect the
public peace, health and safety, and to preserve the lives and property of the
people of the city, it is hereby found and declared to be necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of the state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as may be amended from
time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state shall
establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 31.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 31.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary as established by
the City Council and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration and
operation of the emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction
and control of the Council.
§ 31.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to the
maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city departments
and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate with and
extend services and facilities to the city’s emergency management organization
and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or agency in
cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning and
programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization of
the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 31.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three
days, except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Administrator. A copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of these regulations and their availability for
inspection at the City Administrator’s office shall be conspicuously posted at
the front of the City Hall or other headquarters of the city or at other places
in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution. By
resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   (1)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any
time. If not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30
days after its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it
relates, whichever comes first.
      (2)   Any resolution, rule or regulation inconsistent with an emergency
regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the period of
time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   (1)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions
of M.S. § 12.31, as may be amended from time to time, and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster.
      (2)   The city may exercise these powers in the light of the exigencies
of the disaster without compliance with the time-consuming procedures and
formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the performance of public work,
entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of supplies and materials,
limitations upon tax levies and the appropriation and expenditure of public
funds, including, but not limited to, publication of resolutions, publication
of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and rules, provisions relating
to low bids and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   (A)   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are
hereby declared to be governmental functions.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not affect the right of any
person to receive benefits to which he or she would otherwise be entitled
hereunder or under the worker’s compensation law, or under any pension law, nor
the right of any person to receive any benefits or compensation under any act
of Congress.
§ 31.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
CHAPTER 32: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
32.01   Fee schedule
§ 32.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Rates, minimum charges, deposits and other charges. The following
charges shall hereafter apply to the services provided by the city.
Description Fee
Description                                                                        Fee
Affidavit for candidate filing fee                                                 $15
Appeal hearing for admin. citations                                                $30
ATV permits                                                                        $7
Banner hanging fee ($105 to put up and $205 to take down)                          $211
Building permits
   Non-state Building Code                                                      $40
                                                                                   According
   Requiring state Building Code standards                                      to
                                                                                   valuation
Chicken license                                                                    $13
Cigarette sale licenses                                                            $110
Circus, carnival license                                                           $220
City maps copy
   11" x 17"                                                                    $6
   29" x 41"                                                                    $28
Commercial parking lots with storm sewer curb and gutter                           $275
Commercial sewer permit                                                            $540, pay
                                                                                   county $450
                                                                                   $160
Conditional use permit                                                             payable at
                                                                                   time of
                                                                                   application
Demolish building                                                                  $28
                                                                                   $13
Dog licenses                                                                       Double the
Delinquent dog licenses (after February 28)                                        actual
                                                                                   amount of
                                                                                   the license
Drainlayers licenses                                                               $40 (late
                                                                                   fee: $25)
Final plat                                                                         $100
Fire sprinkler system test                                                         $110
Flow test industrial fee                                                           $110
Food truck license                                                                 $35
Fowl license (i.e. chickens)                                                       $4
Golf cart fee                                                                      $7
                                                                                   Cost
Grass cutting and weed control                                                     incurred +
                                                                                   $44.00
Hose and hydrant connection (i.e. pool fill)
                                                                                   [1.5 x
                                                                                   (current
                                                                                   year water
   Flat rate for water used                                                     rate /
                                                                                   1,000
                                                                                   gallons)]
                                                                                   per 1,000
                                                                                   gallons
                                                                                   $30 + $33/
   Service call and connection                                                  hour of
                                                                                   labor
Hydrant fee                                                                        $35
Junkyard permits                                                                   $100
Liquor licenses
   Off-sale intoxicating liquor                                                 $165
   Off-sale 3.2% malt liquor                                                    $40
   On-sale intoxicating liquor license for clubs with between    201 and 500 $500
members
   On-sale intoxicating liquor club (over 500 members)                          $650
   On-sale intoxicating liquor Sunday only                                      $200
   On-sale intoxicating liquor other                                            $2,200
   On-sale wine license                                                         $220
   On-sale 3.2% malt liquor                                                     $220
   On-sale intoxicating liquor (Brewer taproom)                                 $550
   Off-sale intoxicating liquor (Growler’s, including Sundays)                $165
Meter size service charge (monthly)
   3/4"                                                                         $3.30/month
   1"                                                                           $3.60/month
Meter size service charge (monthly) (Cont’d)
   1" to 1-1/2"                                                                 $4.75/month
   2"                                                                           $8.15/month
   3"                                                                           $12/month
   >3"                                                                          $16/month
Notary fees (each signature)                                                       $3
                                                                                   $10/table +
Picnic table rental                                                                $50
                                                                                   refundable
                                                                                   deposit
Plumbing permits
   Each permit                                                                  $17
   Each additional fixture                                                      $3
   For each private sewage disposal system — ISTS permit                      $252, pay
                                                                                   county $210
   For each private sewage disposal mound                                       $420, pay
                                                                                   county $350
Police audio digital recording                                                     $15 per CD
Police digital photos                                                              $15 per CD
Police squad video or digital video                                                $30 per DVD
Police/vehicle accident reports less than 100 pages                                $.25 per 
                                                                                   page
                                                                                   Actual cost
Police/vehicle accident reports in excess of 100 pages                             determined
                                                                                   at time of
                                                                                   request
Preliminary plat process                                                           $220
Returned check (NSF check)                                                         $35
                                                                                   $28.25/
                                                                                   month plus
                                                                                   $5.65/1,000
Sewage service not connected to city water service                                 gallons,
                                                                                   after 5,000
                                                                                   gallons
                                                                                   minimum
                                                                                   usage
                                                                                   $28.25/
                                                                                   month plus
                                                                                   $5.65/1,000
Sewer charge                                                                       gallons,
                                                                                   after 5,000
                                                                                   gallons
                                                                                   minimum
                                                                                   usage
Sewer meter and MXU service charge                                                 $3.30/month
Shelters (all fees are plus a $100 refundable deposit)
   Evans Pavilion (next to fire station)
      Elementary and secondary schools                                       $30
      Post-secondary schools                                                 $60
      Non-profit organizations                                               $60
      Private parties                                                        $120 + tax
      Companies                                                              $215 + tax
   Lion’s Pavilion (Small at LaCanne Park)
      Elementary and secondary schools                                       $15
      Post-secondary schools                                                 $25
      Non-profit organizations                                               $25
      All others                                                             $45 + tax
      Companies                                                              $50 + tax
   Selke Pavilion (Big at LaCanne Park)
      Elementary and secondary schools                                       $45
      Post-secondary schools                                                 $90
      Non-profit organizations                                               $90
      Private parties                                                        $170 + tax
      Companies                                                              $410 + tax
                                                                                   According
Sign permit                                                                        to
                                                                                   valuation
                                                                                   Cost
Snow and/or ice on sidewalks removal along CSAH No. 32                             incurred +
                                                                                   $44
Snow removal parking violation                                                     $30
                                                                                   $55 per
                                                                                   field/day
Softball/baseball field rental                                                     (plus $100
                                                                                   refundable
                                                                                   deposit
                                                                                   required)
Transient merchant or dealer, hawker, peddler, solicitor or canvasser license      $44
Utility permit on city roadway right-of-way application                            $165
                                                                                   $160
Variance permit                                                                    payable at
                                                                                   time of
                                                                                   application
                                                                                   $11 (once
Water (State Department of Health mandated surcharge — water customers only)     per year in
                                                                                   July)
                                                                                   $18/month
                                                                                   plus $6/
                                                                                   1,000
Water charge                                                                       gallons,
                                                                                   after 3,000
                                                                                   gallons
                                                                                   minimum
                                                                                   usage
Water sales from hydrants
   0—1,000 gal                                                                $15
   1,000 — x gal                                                              $15/1,000
                                                                                   gallons
Water/sewer connection; permit fee                                                 $40
                                                                                   5% added on
                                                                                   the first
Water/sewer not paid (or paid after due date, late fee or penalty)                 working day
                                                                                   after the
                                                                                   due date of
                                                                                   bill
Water/sewer meter charge (one-time fee)
   3/4"                                                                         $230
   1"                                                                           $280
   >1"                                                                          Actual cost
                                                                                   of meter
Water turn off service call                                                        $30
Water turn on service call                                                         $30
Zoning maps copy
   11" x 17"                                                                    $11
   29" x 41"                                                                    $33
 
   (B)   Amendment of charges. The City Council may hereafter change the rates,
charges, deposits and other charges by adopting a resolution providing
therefor. The changes shall be published in the official newspaper of the city
one time following the changes.
   (C)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect after
its adoption by the City Council and its publication in the official newspaper
of the city. However, water and sewer rates will be applied to February 2012
billings for January 2012 usage.
(Ord. 2012-01 (86.7), passed 1-9-2012; Res. 0902, passed 1-28-2013; Ord. 2013-
01 (86.8), passed 7-22-2013; Res. 0929, passed 1-27-2014; Res. 0963, passed 1-
26-2015; Res. 0970, passed 5-18-2015; Res. 0992, passed 1-25-2016; Res. 1012,
passed 9-12-2016; Res. 1019, passed 1-23-2017; Res. 1047, passed 1-29-2018;
Res. 1075, passed 1-28-2019; Res. 1117, passed 1-27-2020; Res. 1178, passed 1-
24-2022; Res. 1212, passed 1-23-2023; Res. 1215, passed 4-3-2023; Ord. passed
6-17-2024)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   SOLID WASTE
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Service lines or mains; placement by utilities
   
50.02   Plumbers; licensing
§ 50.01 SERVICE LINES OR MAINS; PLACEMENT BY UTILITIES.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   All utility or service corporations, companies, partnerships or
individuals, hereinafter referred to as “enterprises”, permitted to use any
right-of-way, street, alley or public grounds of the city for the purpose of
extending or altering service lines or mains, by authority granted through a
franchise or special agreement with the city and those enterprises who use the
right-of-way, street, alley or public grounds without a franchise or special
agreement shall hereafter be required to obtain a permit from the city for any
excavation necessary for piping, wire(s), mains, lines or appurtenances
thereto, altering, enlarging, moving, removing, replacing, maintaining or for
any excavation for whatever reason by the enterprises in any right-of-way,
street, alley or public grounds of the city.
      (2)   The enterprises may be, but are not limited to, natural gas,
electric, telephone and cable television companies and their agents.
      (3)   No excavation work shall begin without the issuance of a permit
approved by the city or its designated agents.
      (4)   There shall be a charge for the permit at least equal to the costs
incurred by the city for any engineering, surveying, staking, inspecting,
supervision and directing of any excavation by any enterprise. The charges
shall be determined by the city administration officers or their agents. The
permits shall also be required in any undeveloped areas, new subdivisions or
additions to the city, where excavation is required by any of the covered
enterprises. Prior to the issuance and approval of a permit for an undeveloped
area, new subdivision or addition, the enterprise shall submit to the city a
detailed proposed plan and drawings and any other information or data required
as requested by the city.
      (5)   Any right-of-way, street, alley or public grounds not repaired,
after excavation by a covered enterprise, to as good of condition as they were
prior to the excavation, as determined by appropriate agents of the city, may
be repaired by the city or its agents, and the costs for the repair shall be
charged to the enterprise.
   (B)   Effective date. This section shall take effect and be in full force
and effect from and after its passage by the City Council and after its
publication in the official newspaper of the city. The ordinance codified
herein was published on 5-14-1976.
(Ord. 55, passed 5-10-1976)
§ 50.02 PLUMBERS; LICENSING.
   (A)   Any person desiring a license as a plumber to do work in connection
with the waterworks or the sanitary sewer system of the city, for which a
license from the city is now required by ordinances now or hereafter in effect,
shall make application in writing therefore to the City Council, which
application shall include, or be accompanied by, satisfactory evidence that the
person is, or has in his or her employ, a person regularly trained and educated
to the plumber’s trade and duly licensed as a plumber by the state, and that he
or she is, in all respects, a person suitable to receive a license. The
applicant shall also furnish satisfactory evidence that he or she has and will
maintain, in effect during the period of his or her license, public liability
insurance covering any and all services he or she may perform pursuant to his
or her license, with limits of liability of not less than $100,000 per claimant
and $300,000 per accident or occurrence. The application shall be accompanied
by a license fee in the amount of $40.
   (B)   If reasonably satisfied that the applicant is properly qualified, the
City Council shall direct that a license be issued to him or her; provided,
however, that, no license shall be issued to any person until he or she shall
have executed and deposited in the office of the City Administrator a bond in
favor of the city in the sum of $2,000, executed by himself or herself and a
corporate surety approved by the City Council, and conditioned that he or she
shall indemnify and hold harmless the city from all claims, actions, suits and
expenses and damages arising therefrom, buffered by any person in consequence
of or arising from any work, labor or service performed by him or her upon the
waterworks or sanitary sewer system of the city, or otherwise pursuant to his
or her license from the city, including any openings that may be made by him or
her, or under his or her direction, in any street, alley or public ground for
making any water or sewer connection or otherwise; that he or she will, in any
case in which he or she shall have made an excavation in any street, alley or
public ground for any purpose, restore the surface and pavement, if any, to as
good a condition as he or she found it; that he or she will, in all respects,
conform to ordinances and regulations of the city relative to the waterworks
and sanitary sewer system; that he or she will pay any and all fines that may
be imposed upon him or her by law for his or her failure to do so; and that he
or she will pay any and all damages that the city may, at any time, suffer by
reason of any failure on his or her part to do so, or by reason of any
negligence on his or her part or on the part of city agents, employees or
servants in performing the work.
   (C)   Every license so issued shall expire by limitation on June 30 next
after the date thereof; or it may be suspended or revoked at any time by the
City Council on satisfactory proof of any willful failure or inexcusable
neglect of the licensee to observe the rules and regulations prescribed by any
ordinance or resolution passed by the City Council or to obey any reasonable
direction given by the Council or its agent respecting the performance of any
service undertaken by the licensee in connection with the works; and the
permanent removal of the licensee from the county, unless he or she shall have
been licensed from outside of the county shall, in itself, effect a forfeiture
of the license.
   (D)   This section shall take effect and be in force from and after its
passage and publication. Ordinance 35 was published 6-8-1962. Ordinance 35.1
was published 8-13-1973.
(Ord. 35, passed 6-4-1962; Ord. 35.1, passed 8-6-1973)
CHAPTER 51: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
51.01   Recyclable materials; unauthorized collection
   
51.02   Composting area
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 RECYCLABLE MATERIALS; UNAUTHORIZED COLLECTION.
   (A)   “Unauthorized collection” defined. Whoever intentionally and without
claim of right takes, uses, transfers, conceals or retains possession of any
recyclable materials set out for the purpose of collection by authorized
persons upon public or private property is guilty of UNAUTHORIZED COLLECTION of
recyclable materials.
   (B)   Unauthorized collection unlawful. Unauthorized collection, as defined
or reasonably implied from division (A) above, is hereby declared unlawful.
   (C)   Effective date. This section shall take effect the day following its
summaries publication in the official newspaper of the city. The ordinance
codified herein was published 3-14-1985.
(Ord. 68, passed 2-11-1985) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.02 COMPOSTING AREA.
   (A)   Definition. COMPOST means leaves and grass clippings and related
organic material that will decompose or breakdown in a short period of time.
   (B)   Use of compost area.
      (1)   No person or persons, association, firm or corporation shall dump,
deposit or dispose of any material at the city compost site that will not
decompose within a short period of time. Prohibited material to dump, deposit
or dispose would include, but not be limited to, other materials such as wood,
building materials, lumber, stumps, branches, plastic, metal, garbage, paper,
rocks, cement and glass.
      (2)   The only materials that will be allowed to be dumped or disposed of
at the compost site are those as defined in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Effective date. This section shall take effect the day following its
publication in the official newspaper of the city. The ordinance codified
herein was published on 5-3-1988.
(Ord. 70, passed 4-25-1988) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of any part or provision of §
51.01 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $1,000 or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed
90 days or both.
   (C)   Section
51.02 will be enforced by the Police Department and/or other city employees.
Violation of §
51.02 shall constitute a petty misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of
not more than $100.
(Ord. 68, passed 2-11-1985; Ord. 70, passed 4-25-1988)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
   
52.01   Rates, minimum charges and other charges
   
52.02   Billing procedure
   
52.03   Connections
   
52.04   Uses prohibited
   
52.05   Maintenance of meters
   
52.06   Maintenance of service lines
   
52.07   Maintenance of fixtures
   
52.08   Changes; liability; access
   
52.09   Management plan
   
52.10   Effective date
 
   
52.99   Penalty
§ 52.01 RATES, MINIMUM CHARGES AND OTHER CHARGES.
   (A)   The charges applying to water service provided by the city’s
waterworks shall be as set forth in §
32.01 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The rates shall apply to all users except those who have a special
written agreement with the city prescribing the charges therein. These rates
shall be subject to change by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 30.4, passed 9-22-1997)
§ 52.02 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Charges for water supplied by the waterworks of the city, whether
supplied through water meters or in any other manner, shall be determined and
computed monthly. The charges shall thereupon be billed, and shall be due and
payable, within 20 days of the date of billing. Payments made after the due
date shall be subject to a late payment charge of interest at the rate of 5%
per month for each month or part thereof in which the charges remain unpaid.
   (B)   Payments shall be made in the office of the City Administrator or at
other place within the city as may be designated. The charges are hereby made a
primary obligation of the owner and each occupant of the premises served and
shall constitute a continuing paramount lien upon the premises until paid in
full. All charges shall be billed to the owner or occupant of the property,
however, the city shall not be responsible for division of the charges among
tenants or other occupants of the property unless each premise is separately
metered.
   (C)   (1)   Unless a special mailing address is placed on file with the
Administrator, bills will be mailed to the address of the property supplied
upon failure to pay any charge within 30 days after payment is due, the city
may elect to discontinue water service to the premises for which the charges
were incurred, and to any other premises within the city owned or occupied by a
person responsible for payment of the charges. At least 15 days prior to the
discontinuance of service, the Administrator shall mail notice of the intended
discontinuance to the owner and occupant of the premises affected.
      (2)   The notice shall specify the date upon which the discontinuance is
to be effective, the reason therefor, and the amount of charges due and unpaid.
The notice shall be deemed sufficiently given if mailed to the owner or
occupant at the address of the premises affected, and neither the failure of
the notice to comply with the terms hereof shall prevent the city from making
the discontinuance of service.
   (D)   Upon any discontinuance for non-payment of charges, no further water
service shall be furnished to the premises until all delinquent and current
charges have been paid, and until payment of a $28 charge for restoring
service. In addition to or in lieu of the foregoing, the Administrator is
authorized to certify any unpaid and delinquent charges to the County Auditor
for collection on behalf of the city with the other taxes levied against the
premises.
   (E)   In addition to or in lieu of either of the foregoing, the city may
bring action in any court of competent jurisdiction against the owner or
occupant of the premises served, or all of them, for the collection of the
delinquent charges and, in any action, the city shall be entitled to recover
all expenses of collection including reasonable attorney’s fees.
(Ord. 30.4, passed 9-22-1997)
§ 52.03 CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Water shall be supplied to any premise where service is
available within the city after the approval of the Administrator or the
Director of Public Works.
      (2)   However, the City Council shall be the final authority for all
connections.
      (3)   All connections shall require the owner and or the applicant to
complete and sign a service agreement of substantially the following form:
WATER SERVICE AGREEMENT
No.                                                             Date
                                                                    
Meter No.
                                                                                                                                      
Owner
                                                                                 
Property served
                                                                                                                               
Address
Parcel No.                                                   Subdivision
                                                          
The above named owner hereby requests water service from the city and agrees:
   1.   To keep the meter unobstructed from sight for purposes of reading,
repair or maintenance or examination.
   2.   Maintenance of the service line from the city main to or on my premises
and all appurtenances are my responsibility and must be repaired if not
operating properly, all at my own expense.
   3.   To keep all waterworks on my premise in repair such that water is
economically dispensed and not wasted.
   4.   That I will hold the city harmless from any and all claims for damages
due to leaks, insufficient supply, quality or pressure.
   5.   That I will allow authorized agents of the city access at any
reasonable hour of the day to all areas of any building or premise supplied
with city water to read or repair meters or remote reading devices or
appurtenances.
   6.   I acknowledge that the city is not responsible for the thawing, or cost
thereof, of frozen water services or appurtenances thereto.
                                                                                                                                                      
Signature of Owner
   (B)   Any application for connection may be denied where it is determined by
the approving city authorities that the connection may cause harm to the
overall waterworks system or threaten the general welfare of other users, or
for noncompliance with any state, federal or local authority regulations
governing the connection. Nothing contained in this or any other section of
this chapter shall be construed to mean that the city must extend water mains
to serve a premise if no service is available.
(Ord. 30.4, passed 9-22-1997)
§ 52.04 USES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The use of city water for sprinkling or other uses may be restricted
or prohibited upon due notice thereof in the official newspaper of the city and
or by public broadcasting on the nearest radio station.
   (B)   The notice shall be deemed sufficient to discontinue water service at
any premise for violation of the restriction or prohibition.
(Ord. 30.4, passed 9-22-1997)
§ 52.05 MAINTENANCE OF METERS.
   (A)   Any damage to a meter resulting from any cause whatsoever, except from
normal wear, may be repaired by the city’s authorized representative and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the owner of the premise and be included in
the next regular service bill. It shall be the duty of the occupant of every
metered premise to keep the meter unobstructed from sight for purposes of
reading and within easy access for purposes of inspection, repair or
maintenance.
   (B)   Any person who shall remove, change, alter, willfully damage, tamper
with or remove seals may be subject to charges being filed against him or her
and the discontinuance of service to the premises.
(Ord. 30.4, passed 9-22-1997)
§ 52.06 MAINTENANCE OF SERVICE LINES.
   (A)   Property owners shall, at their own expense, keep the service pipes
from the city mains and all apparatus connected therewith in good working order
and properly protected from frost. The city will not accept the responsibility
for thawing, or the cost thereof, frozen water services or appurtenances
thereto.
   (B)   Property owners, at their own expense, may be required by the Council,
in its discretion, to install or replace service pipes from the city mains. All
installations or replacements shall conform to specifications prescribed by all
city, state or federal regulations.
(Ord. 30.4, passed 9-22-1997)
§ 52.07 MAINTENANCE OF FIXTURES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner to prevent all waste of water. All
pipes, fixtures and apparatus used in service connections with the waterworks
shall be of a style and character suited to an economical use of water. All
outlets shall be kept closed when not in actual use. The Council reserves the
right to discontinue the supply of water in all cases of waste.
   (B)   When any water service is discontinued permanently, the City Council,
at its discretion, may cause the service to be shut off at the tap on the water
main and charge the cost of the shut off at the tap on the water main to the
owner of the property served.
   (C)   (1)   No union coupling shall be placed in the service line between
the curb stop box and the water main.
      (2)   The installation of, or any repairs to, the service line between
the water main and the water meter shall be done under the supervision of the
Public Works Director or his or her agent.
(Ord. 30.4, passed 9-22-1997) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 CHANGES; LIABILITY; ACCESS.
   (A)   The City Council reserves the right to change the provisions of this
chapter, at its discretion. Neither the City Council, nor the city, shall be
liable for damages caused by insufficiency of water supply, quality or
pressure. The right is reserved to shut off the water from any main or mains
for a reasonable time whenever the action becomes necessary for flushing or for
the purpose of making connections, extensions, changes or repairs.
   (B)   The authorized agents of the city shall be allowed access at any
reasonable hour of the day to all parts of any building or premises supplied
with water from the mains to make examinations of pipe and apparatus used in
supply, to make investigations as to the amount of water taken, to ascertain
whether it is being wasted or the performance of any other official duty. The
City Council reserves the right to turn off water for non-payment of charges,
penalties or other charges, for wasting water, for any violation of this
chapter or for any other cause where the public interest shall, in the opinion
of the City Council, require.
(Ord. 30.4, passed 9-22-1997)
§ 52.09 MANAGEMENT PLAN.
   The city’s Water Conservation and Emergency Management Plan and any
subsequent amendments thereto is hereby adopted and incorporated in this
chapter as completely as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 30.4, passed 9-22-1997)
§ 52.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in full force and effect from and
after its passage by the City Council and its publication in the official
newspaper of the city. The ordinance codified herein was published on 9-26-
1997.
(Ord. 30.4, passed 9-22-1997)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter to which a penalty
is not already attached shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a
misdemeanor and be subject to the penalties therefor.
   (B)   Any person or persons who shall willfully or maliciously divert the
water, or any part thereof, from the waterworks system or shall corrupt or
render impure the water, or shall damage or destroy any pipe, hydrant, fixture,
machinery, building or other property of the city required for procuring or
distributing the water shall forfeit to the city, to be recovered in a civil
action, the amount of damages and the persons found guilty thereof may be
further subject to criminal charges therefor.
(Ord. 30.4, passed 9-22-1997)
CHAPTER 53: SEWERS
Section
Municipal Sewage System and Stormwater System
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Rates and minimum charges
   
53.03   Testing and additional charges
   
53.04   Connections
   
53.05   Ordering connections
   
53.06   Failure to connect; Council action
   
53.07   Prohibitions
   
53.08   Testing facilities
   
53.09   Preliminary treatment
   
53.10   Special agreements
   
53.11   Inspections
   
53.12   Surface waters
   
53.13   Effective date
Private Sewage Systems
   
53.25   Prohibited actions
   
53.26   Removal, storage, treatment, and disposal of waste and sewage
   
53.27   Location and maintenance of private sewage systems
   
53.28   Location and maintenance of privies
   
53.29   Prohibited discharge or disposal
   
53.30   Inspection
 
   
53.99   Penalty
MUNICIPAL SEWAGE SYSTEM AND STORMWATER SYSTEM
§ 53.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter.
   COMMERCIAL PREMISES. Any premise which uses water and/or sewer facilities in
the normal conduct of a business. Any premise upon which a business and a
residence are structurally joined shall be considered a COMMERCIAL PREMISE.
COMMERCIAL PREMISES shall also include churches, clubs, apartment and sleeping
houses, duplexes and any type of association.
   D-1 CLASS SEWAGE. The wastes from water closets, lavatories, sinks,
bathtubs, showers, home laundries and drinking fountains.
   I-1 CLASS SEWAGE. The wastes from any domestic, commercial or industrial
property which is normally less than 300 parts per million of five-day
biochemical oxygen demand and/or 300 parts per million of suspended solids.
   I-2 CLASS SEWAGE. The wastes from any domestic, commercial or industrial,
property which is normally stronger than 300 parts per million of five-day
biochemical oxygen demand and/or 300 parts per million of suspended solids.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERTY. A lot, parcel of land or real estate, building or premise in the
city.
   RESIDENTIAL PREMISE. Any premise upon which only the activities associated
with a single-family home or residence are conducted.
   SPECIAL AGREEMENT. Agreement which is a contract between the city and a
person, firm, partnership or corporation.
   SYSTEM or SEWAGE SYSTEM. The city system of pipes and appurtenances
collecting and transporting sewage within the limits of public property.
(Ord. 31.5, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 53.02 RATES AND MINIMUM CHARGES.
   (A)   In addition to all other charges, the owner, lessee or occupant of
each premise connected with the sanitary sewer system of the city shall pay a
quarterly charge in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Sanitary sewer service charges shall be based upon the amount of
metered water at each premise. If a premise is supplied with water from a
private well, the owner shall be required to cause the installation of a water
meter with a remote reading device so that the volume of water passing through
the meter may be determined without having to enter upon the premises.
      (2)   Sewer service charges for premises which are connected to the city
sanitary sewer system, but, for which a water meter has not been installed in
accordance herewith, shall be as set by the City Council.
      (3)   An adjustment may be made to the charges for sanitary sewer service
for commercial/industrial users for processing water which does not enter the
sanitary sewer system. The adjustments shall be approved by the City Council.
Other adjustments including water for the filling of swimming pools, but not
limited to, may be made as deemed appropriate by the City Administrator.
   (B)   Charges for sanitary sewer service shall be billed to property owners
quarterly on or about May 1, August 1, November 1 and February 1 annually. All
charges billed shall be due and payable within 30 days following the date of
the billing.
   (C)   Henceforth, the charges and provisions contained in this section may
be altered by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 31.5, passed 5-2-1988; Ord. 31.7, passed 12-19-1994)
§ 53.03 TESTING AND ADDITIONAL CHARGES.
   The City Council, the Administrator and or the Director of Public Works may
require testing at any sewer service to determine the type and strength of
sewage being discharged. The cost of the tests shall be paid by the owner of
the property affected. An additional sewer service charge may be made for any
property found to be discharging I-2 class sewage to the city’s system and will
be determined by the volume and strength of the discharge as provided in the
sanitary sewer interconnection agreement between the City of Winona and the
City of Goodview dated 9-22-1972, or any succeeding agreement therefor. The
determined charges of this section shall be in addition to all charges
described in §
32.01.
(Ord. 31.5, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 53.04 CONNECTIONS.
   Connections to the city’s sanitary sewer and storm sewer systems must be
done in accordance with rules and regulations set forth by the State Plumbing
Code. A plumbing permit for any connection to the city’s sewer mains must be
obtained and the connection must be done only by a plumber holding a current,
valid drainlayer’s license issued by the city.
(Ord. 31.5, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 53.05 ORDERING CONNECTIONS.
   The City Council is empowered whenever there is a sanitary sewer in the
public highway or public ground upon which any property abuts to cause the
owner of the property to connect the property with the sewage system by a
sufficient sanitary sewer or storm water sewer or whenever, in its opinion and
judgement, the same may be necessary for the preservation of the public health.
They shall give notice to the owner specifying a date when the sewer connection
or connections must be completed and, if the owner neglects to complete the
same within the time specified, the City Council may cause the same to be done
and may either recover the whole amount of the expense thereof by an action
against the owner in the name of the city before any court having jurisdiction
thereof or certify the same to the County Auditor pursuant to M.S. § 444.075,
as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 31.5, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 53.06 FAILURE TO CONNECT; COUNCIL ACTION.
   Should the owner of any premise having access to the sanitary sewer system,
as provided in §
53.01, fail to connect the premise with the sanitary sewer and upon an
investigation, the City Council may cause the installation of a water closet or
other device designed for receiving wastewater from any source and to connect
such with the city sanitary sewer system. If the City Council determines that
wastewater from any premise, parcel or lot is in need of proper disposal,
through the city sanitary sewer system, the city shall cause connection to the
system in accordance with this section. The connection will be made by an
authorized representative of the city upon 30-days’ notice to the owner thereof
and the city may cause the cost of the installation together with the
connection charges hereinafter provided, and any city administrative costs, to
be assessed against the owner of the premise, which assessment, connection fee
and administrative costs, shall be paid within 30 days after notification in
writing to the owner of the premise and if not paid within 30 days may be
certified to the County Auditor to be collected in the same time and manner as
real estate taxes against the property. The assessment, connection charge and
administrative costs shall be payable in equal annual installments, the number
of which shall be determined by the City Council, with one year’s interest at
an annual rate set by the City Council, to be added to the first installment
and one year’s interest at the same annual rate to be added to each subsequent
installment on the unpaid balance.
(Ord. 31.5, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 53.07 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall deposit or discharge any of the following into the city
sewer system unless or until sufficient preliminary treatment is provided to
allow the city to meet State Pollution Control Agency effluent standards and
any standards, the City of Winona may require or impose in accordance with the
agreement between the two cities:
   (A)   Deleterious material or any waste which will physically damage the
sewage system, sewage treatment plant or facilities connected therewith, or
interfere with the treatment process standards required by the State Pollution
Control Agency;
   (B)   Liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 180°F;
   (C)   Water or waste containing more than 100 parts per million by weight of
fat, oil or grease;
   (D)   Gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel, oil or other inflammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (E)   Garbage, either household or commercial that has not been shredded, so
that the garbage particles are smaller than three-eighths inch in their largest
dimension. Adequate water flow volume to wash the garbage through the sewers
shall be provided; and/or
   (F)   Ashes, hair, peelings, refuse, rags, sticks, cinders, earth, mortar or
concrete, feathers, glass, metal, animal or poultry solids, plastics or any
solid or viscous matter capable of causing obstruction in the flow of a
sanitary sewer, reduction in the capacity of a sanitary sewer or interference
with the proper operation of the sewage system.
(Ord. 31.5, passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 TESTING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city may require a manhole to be constructed upon any property’s
sewer line at the owner’s expense. The manhole shall be to facilitate the
observation, sampling, inspection and measurement of wastes.
   (B)   The manhole must be accessible, safely located and built in accordance
with city specifications.
   (C)   The necessity for a manhole will be based upon sewage volume, nature
of source or strength and whether the wastes necessitate control or
pretreatment to meet acceptable conditions of discharge into the cities system.
(Ord. 31.5, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 53.09 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT.
   Where a preliminary treatment facility is required or provided for any
waste, the facility shall be properly constructed and maintained to function in
accordance with its intended design, all at the expense of the owner.
(Ord. 31.5, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 53.10 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   Nothing within this subchapter shall be interpreted to require the city to
provide sewer service at published rates when an owner deposits prohibited
waste in the sewage system or causes a higher than normal expense in the
operation of the system or higher than normal charges from the City of Winona
for the treatment or conveyance of the wastes. Nothing in this subchapter shall
be interpreted to prohibit the city from the handling of deleterious wastes,
pretreatments or setting a charge higher than the published rates on an
agreement basis. The agreement shall be made by the city and the owner after
considering, but not limited to, the problems in handling the effect on the
sewage system and the cost of handling the waste.
(Ord. 31.5, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 53.11 INSPECTIONS.
   The Administrator or his or her agents shall, at all reasonable times, be
permitted to enter upon any property served by the sewage system for the
purpose of inspection, measurement, sampling and testing in connection with
operation of the sewage system.
(Ord. 31.5, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 53.12 SURFACE WATERS.
   No person shall connect a roof, ground water or surface water drain to the
sewage system. Water used for cooling and condenser purposes which does not
exceed 25 parts per million B.O.D. or other industrial or domestic water which
does not contain discoloration, harmful chemicals, sediment, solids, noxious
odors and does not exceed 25 parts per million B.O.D. may be discharged
directly into the storm sewer system and, if metered, shall be deducted from
any service charge in connection with the sewer charge.
(Ord. 31.5, passed 5-2-1988) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in full force and effect from and
after its passage by the City Council and its publication in the official
newspaper of the city. The ordinance codified herein was published on 5-5-1988.
(Ord. 31.5, passed 5-2-1988)
PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEMS
§ 53.25 PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to dispose of
human excreta, other wastes and sewage or to construct, operate or maintain any
structure or system for the disposal of any such, or to cause or permit the
same to be done on any premises owned, occupied or controlled by any of them,
in the village except in conformity with the provisions on this subchapter.
(Ord. 19, passed 9-18-1950) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.26 REMOVAL, STORAGE, TREATMENT, AND DISPOSAL OF WASTE AND SEWAGE.
   (A)   Soil absorption systems which shall he construed to include all
methods of disposing of human excreta, other wastes and sewage except by means
of a general sewer system in the village shall include, without narrowing of
the definition, privies, private sewage systems, septic and settling tanks,
cesspools and appurtenant overflow pipes or leaching laterals of stone, drain
tile, or other material and absorption or seepage pits. All soil absorption
systems shall be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications
recommended by the State Department of Health for use in the village, and
adopted by the Council; at least three copies of such plans or specifications
shall be marked as official copies and filed with the Village Clerk for use and
examination by the public.
   (B)   Any other systems, methods or structures for storing, treating,
removing or disposing of human excreta, other wastes and sewage shall be passed
upon by the Village Board of Health, and submitted with its recommendation to
the Council. Any such system, method or structure must have the approval of the
Council before being used or made useable.
(Ord. 19, passed 9-18-1950)
§ 53.27 LOCATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE SEWAGE SYSTEMS.
   Private sewage systems shall be located and maintained in accordance with
the rules set out in the following subdivisions.
   (A)   A settling or septic tank shall be provided in such systems, having a
capacity, for single family dwelling of at least 500 gallons liquid capacity,
and for other dwellings and buildings of such capacity as the Village Board of
Health prescribes. In the event there is a garbage disposal unit or grinder
connected with the house sewer, the capacity of the septic tank shall be
increased at least 50%. Such tank and appurtenances, including all overflow
pipes or leaching laterals of stone, drain tile, or other material, and
absorption or seepage pits, shall not be located nearer than 50 feet to any
well or spring used for drinking or culinary purposes or for watering livestock
or poultry, nor nearer than 25 feet to a dwelling. In no case shall any outlet,
therefrom be so located and constructed that liquid therefrom will be
discharged into a limestone formation. No cesspool will be permitted or
accepted as a settling tank. Absorption or seepage pits shall be discontinued
upon order of the Board of Health. A settling tank shall not be located as so
to be subject to flooding by surface water. No sludge or other effluent from
septic tanks and private sewer systems shall be discharged or permitted to
discharge on the surface of the ground.
   (B)   When sludge accumulates in such tank in sufficient quantity to
interfere with its efficient operation, it shall be removed under and in
accordance with the direction of the health officer and buried so as to be
inaccessible to human beings or animals and so as not to endanger any domestic
or public water supply.
   (C)   When the soil around any appurtenant overflow pipe or lateral of
stone, drain tile, or other material or absorption or seepage pit becomes so
clogged that it will no longer absorb the liquids placed therein, additional
soil absorption facilities shall be provided. Any abandoned settling tank or
appurtenant absorption or seepage pit shall be filled with earth to the level
of the surrounding ground and the approval of the health officer obtained
therefor.
   (D)   Every settling tank shall be so constructed as to be easily accessible
for cleaning and inspection from the top through suitable manhole openings.
Covers for such manhole openings shall be rigid, durable and securely fastened.
Ventilation shall be provided through the main house drain and house stack. The
main drain to the tank or cesspool should be laid without a trap.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of every person constructing a private sewage
system to file a record of the exact location of the tank and all appurtenances
thereto, with dimensions thereof in the Office of the Village Clerk. The
Village Clerk shall keep a record of all such installations in a securely bound
book.
(Ord. 19, passed 9-18-1950) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.28 LOCATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PRIVIES.
   (A)   Privies shall be located and maintained as herein prescribed. They
shall not be located closer than 20 feet to any place of human habitation, nor
closer than 50 feet to any well or spring used for drinking or culinary
purposes or for watering livestock or poultry, and shall be located at such
distance that seepage from the privy vault will not drain into any such well or
spring. They shall be located and constructed so that no surface water will
drain into the privy vault. The privy building shall be well constructed with a
good roof, a door which shall fit snugly and be self-closing, and having
adequate ventilation, and all parts of the privy shall be fully protected
against and inaccessible to flies. The building shall be kept painted on the
outside and in good repair. The premises and in particular the privy seat shall
be kept clean and sanitary.
   (B)   Night soil in privy vaults shall be disposed of in accordance with
directions of the Village Health Officer, and no such vault shall be continued
in use when it has become filled within one foot of the surface of the ground.
No privy shall be moved or removed except by permission and under and in
accordance with the direction of the Village Board of Health or Health Officer.
(Ord. 19, passed 9-18-1950) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.29 PROHIBITED DISCHARGE OR DISPOSAL.
   No human excreta or sludge from privies, septic tanks, private sewage
systems or other soil absorption systems or other sources shall be placed in or
be permitted to be placed in any stream or body of water or any abandoned or
deep well or on the surface of the ground, and the effluent from septic tanks
and private sewer systems shall not be discharged or permitted to be discharged
on the surface of the ground.
(Ord. 19, passed 9-18-1950) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.30 INSPECTION.
   The Health Officer or law enforcement officials of the village shall have
access to any soil absorption system for purposes of inspection at any time.
(Ord. 19, passed 9-18-1950)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of §§
53.01 through
53.13 shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject
to the penalties therefor.
   (B)   Any persons, who shall willfully or maliciously place any prohibited
wastes or materials in the sewer system of the city or shall plug, damage or
destroy any parts of the sewer system of the city, shall forfeit to the city,
to be recovered in a civil action, the amount of damages and the persons found
guilty thereof may be further subject to criminal charges therefor.
   (C)   Any violation of the provisions of §§ 53.25 through 53.30 shall be a
misdemeanor, and any person, firm, or corporation convicted thereof shall be
punished by a fine of not less than $5 and not more than $100.
(Ord. 19, passed 9-18-1950; Ord. 31.5, passed 5-2-1988)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
72.   TRAINS
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Highway Traffic Act adopted
   
70.02   Exhibition driving; hanging on vehicles
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 HIGHWAY TRAFFIC ACT ADOPTED.
   (A)   The regulatory provisions of the State Highway Traffic Regulation Act,
M.S. Ch. 169, as may be amended from time to time, and in effect on the
effective date of this section, are hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance
regulating the use of highways, streets and alleys within the city and are
hereby incorporated in and made a part of this section as completely as if set
out in full herein.
   (B)   This section shall take effect on the day following its publication in
the official city newspaper. The ordinance codified herein was published on 11-
3-1972.
(Ord. 33.1, passed 10-2-1972) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 EXHIBITION DRIVING; HANGING ON VEHICLES.
   (A)   (1)   EXHIBITION DRIVING is hereby defined as the starting or
acceleration of any vehicle in a manner that the sound of squealing or
screeching of tires is emitted or that rocks, sand, gravel or dirt is thrown by
the driving wheels of the vehicle.
      (2)   Exhibition driving, as defined or reasonably implied from division
(A)(1) above, is hereby declared unlawful.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to attach himself or herself to or
to hang on to any motor vehicle, as defined by M.S. § 169.011, as may be
amended from time to time, when the vehicle is in motion and when any portion
of the person’s body is touching the ground or the street.
   (C)   This section shall take effect the day following its publication in
the official newspaper of the city. The ordinance codified herein was published
on 3-14-1985.
(Ord. 33.2, passed 2-11-1985) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of the statutes adopted by reference in §
70.01 is a violation of §
70.01 when it occurs within the city. Any person thus violating any provision
of §
70.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not
to exceed $1,000, by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not to
exceed 90 days or both; but, if a minimum or maximum fine or imprisonment is
prescribed by the Highway Traffic Regulation Act for an offense, the penalty
shall apply to a person convicted of the same offense under §
70.01, subject to the foregoing limits.
   (B)   Violation of any part or provision of §
70.02 shall constitute a petty misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine of
not more than $100.
(Ord. 33.1, passed 10-2-1972; Ord. 33.2, passed 2-11-1985)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Snowmobiles
   71.02   All-terrain vehicles and utility task vehicles
   71.03   Golf carts
 
   71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the terms herein shall
be defined by M.S. § 84.81, as may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Operation. No snowmobile shall be operated in the city, except in
conformity with M.S. §§ 84.81 to 84.915 inclusive and as may be amended from
time to time.
      (1)   No person may operate a snowmobile without registering the
snowmobile with the state in compliance with Minn. Rules 6100.5000.
      (2)   No snowmobile shall exceed the speed of 20 mph upon a city street.
      (3)   Snowmobiles shall stop at all intersections and shall yield the
right-of-way to all other motor vehicles and to pedestrians.
      (4)   Snowmobiles may operate between sunrise and sunset on city streets.
      (5)   No snowmobile shall be operated on any city sidewalk, boulevard,
playground or other city property.
      (6)   No snowmobile shall be operated on private property without the
written permission of the owner of the property. The written permission must be
carried by the operator when operating a snowmobile on private property.
      (7)   No snowmobile shall be operated in the city without the proper
equipment as described in M.S. § 84.871 and Minn. Rules 7460.5200.
      (8)   No Minnesota resident born after December 31, 1976 shall operate a
snowmobile in the city without one of the following in compliance with M.S. §
84.862, Subd. 1:
         (a)   A valid snowmobile safety certificate;
         (b)   A driver's license that has a valid snowmobile qualification
indicator; or
         (c)   An identification card that has a valid snowmobile qualification
indicator.
      (9)   No snowmobile shall be operated in the city by any person under the
age of 16 years, except upon private property and with the permission of the
owner of the property.
   (C)   Emergencies. Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this section, a
snowmobile may be operated on city streets in an emergency during the period of
time when, and at locations where, snow upon the roadway renders travel by
automobile impractical.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall take effect and be in force from
and after its passage and publication. The ordinance codified herein was
published on 12-30-1970.
(Ord. 51, passed 12-21-1970; Ord. 2022-01(71), passed 6-20-2022) Penalty, see §
 
71.99
§ 71.02 ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES; GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Applicable state statutes.
      (1)   All operation of an all-terrain vehicle, or ATV, in the city shall,
at all times, conform to M.S. §§ 84.92 and 169.045, as may be amended from time
to time.
      (2)   All operation of a utility task vehicle, or UTV, in the city shall,
at all times, conform to M.S. § 169.045, as may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE (ATV). As defined in M.S. § 84.92, Subd. 8, 9, and 10
as may be amended from time to time.
      ROADWAY OR STREET. A public roadway is defined as the entire right-of-way
including the paved portion as well as all banks, ditches, shoulders and
medians.
      UTILITY TASK VEHICLE (UTV). As defined by M.S. § 169.045, Subd. 1(3), a
side- by-side, four-wheel drive, off-road vehicle that has four wheels, is
propelled by an internal combustion engine with a piston displacement capacity
of 1,200 cubic centimeters or less, and has a total dry weight of 1,800 but
less than 2,600 pounds.
   (C)   Application process.
      (1)   ATV registration. No person may operate an ATV anywhere within the
state unless it has first been registered with the Department of Natural
Resources (DNR). This requirement does not apply to ATVs being operated on
private lands with the permission of the landowner, and to certain other
situations enumerated at M.S. § 84.922, Subd. 1a, as may be amended from time
to time. The off-road registration of ATVs is through deputy registrars where
the vehicle license plates are normally purchased. All-terrain vehicle
registration is also available at the DNR License Bureau.
      (2)   Permit required. No operation of an ATV or UTV is allowed on any
right-of- way within the city unless issued a permit by the city and the permit
fee paid. The cost of the permit shall be set by the city from time to time and
is valid for one year from the issuance date. A permit will not be granted or
renewed unless the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The applicant must provide evidence of insurance.
         (b)   The applicant has not had his or her driver's license revoked as
a result of criminal proceedings.
         (c)   The applicant may be required to provide a certificate signed by
a physician that the applicant is able to safely operate a recreational
vehicle.
      (3)   Permit application. Every application for an ATV or UTV permit
shall be made on a form supplied by the city and shall contain all of the
following:
         (a)   Application date;
         (b)   Applicant's name and address;
         (c)   Make, model, and year for each ATV and UTV;
         (d)   Driver's license or reason for not having a current license;
         (e)   Proof of at least one of the following training requirements for
an ATV permit if born after July 1, 1987 in compliance with M.S. § 84.925,
Subd. 5:
            1.   A valid all-terrain vehicle safety certificate issued by the
Commissioner;
            2.   A driver's license that has a valid all-terrain vehicle safety
certificate indicator; or
            3.   An identification card that has a valid all-terrain vehicle
safety certificate indicator.
         (f)   Proof of insurance, company, and policy number for the operation
of the recreational vehicle;
         (g)   Proof of DNR registration for ATVs; and
         (h)   Other information as the city may require.
   (D)   Special restrictions.
      (1)   Noise. While in operation within the city, the ATV or UTV must have
the exhaust muffled to assure quiet operation.
      (2)   Insurance. No person shall operate an ATV or UTV without valid
insurance in compliance with M.S. § 65B.48, Subd. 5.
      (3)   Hours of operation. ATVs and UTVs may operate between sunrise and
sunset.
      (4)   Location. ATVs and UTVs may be operated on city streets but may not
be operated on state or federal highways except to cross at designated
intersections. All persons operating an ATV on roads and rights-of-way shall do
so in compliance with M.S. § 84.928.
      (5)   Poor conditions. ATVs and UTVs may not be operated in inclement
weather or when visibility is impaired due to weather, smoke, fog, or any
condition when there is insufficient light to see persons or vehicles on the
roadway at a minimum distance of 500 feet.
      (6)   Rear-view mirrors required. ATVs and UTVs shall be equipped with a
rear-view mirror in compliance with M.S. § 169.70.
      (7)   Minors. No person under the age of 16 shall operate an ATV or UTV
in the city, except on private property and with the permission of the owner of
the property. No person under the age of 18 shall operate or ride an ATV or UTV
without wearing protective headgear and seat belt that meets standards
established by the Commissioner of public safety.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall take effect and be in force from
and after its passage and publication. The ordinance codified herein was
published on 8-7-1998.
(Ord. 81, passed 8-3-1998; Ord. 2022-01(71), passed 6-20-2022) Penalty, see §  
71.99
§ 71.03 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Applicable state statutes.
      (1)   All operation of a golf cart in the city shall, at all times,
conform to M.S. § 169.045, as may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Golf carts, by their very nature, are not required to be
registered.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      GOLF CART. A motorized (gas or electric) three- or four-wheel vehicle
commonly used to transport golfers and their golfing equipment while playing
the sport of golf.
      ROADWAY OR STREET. The entire right-of-way including the paved portion as
well as all banks, ditches, shoulders and medians.
   (C)   Application process.
      (1)   Permit required. No operation of a golf cart is allowed on any
right-of-way within the city unless issued a permit by the city and the permit
fee is paid. The cost of the permit shall be set by the city from time to time
and is valid for one year from the issuance date. A permit will not be granted
or renewed unless the following conditions are met:
         (a)   The applicant has provided evidence of insurance;
         (b)   The applicant has not had his or her driver's license revoked as
a result of criminal proceedings; and
         (c)   The applicant may be required to provide a certificate signed by
a physician that the applicant is able to safely operate a golf cart.
      (2)   Permit application. Every application for a permit shall be made on
a form supplied by the city and shall contain all of the following:
         (a)   Application date;
         (b)   Applicant's name and address;
         (c)   Make, model, and year for each motorized golf cart;
         (d)   Driver's license or reason for not having a license;
         (e)   Proof of insurance, company, and policy number for the operation
of the golf cart; and
         (f)   Other information as the city may require.
   (D)   Special restrictions.
      (1)   Noise. While in operation within the city, the golf cart must have
the exhaust muffled to assure quiet operation.
      (2)   Insurance. No person shall operate a golf cart without valid
insurance in compliance with M.S. § 65B.48, Subd. 5.
      (3)   Hours of operation. Golf carts may be in operation between sunrise
and sunset.
      (4)   Location. Golf carts may be operated on city streets but may not be
operated on state or federal highways except to cross at designated
intersections.
      (5)   Poor conditions. Golf carts may not be operated in inclement
weather or when visibility is impaired due to weather, smoke, fog, or any
condition when there is insufficient light to see persons or vehicles on the
roadway at a minimum distance of 500 feet.
      (6)   Rear-view mirrors required. Golf carts shall be equipped with a
rear-view mirror in compliance with M.S. § 169.70.
      (7)   Slow-moving vehicle. Golf carts shall display the slow-moving
vehicle emblem when operating on designated roadways in compliance with M.S. §
169.045, Subd. 4.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall take effect and be in force from
and after its passage and publication. The ordinance codified herein was
published on 8-7-1998.
(Ord. 2022-01(71), passed 6-20-2022) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The City Administrator may suspend or revoke a permit granted
hereunder upon a finding that the holder thereof has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter or M.S. § 169, as it may be amended from time to
time, or if there is evidence that the permit holder cannot safely operate the
recreational vehicle on the designated roadways.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (C)   Violation of §§
71.02 or
71.03 is a petty misdemeanor and is punishable within the guidelines of those
offenses.
(Ord. 51, passed 12-21-1970; Ord. 81, passed 8-3-1998; Ord. 2022-01(71), passed
6-20-2022)
CHAPTER 72: TRAINS
Section
   
72.01   Obstruction of streets
   
72.02   Whistle blowing
   
72.03   Effective date
§ 72.01 OBSTRUCTION OF STREETS.
   No person shall stop or cause to be stopped any train of cars, car or engine
across any public street in the city, except for a time to couple or operate
cars, but in no case exceeding ten minutes. No person shall cause or permit
crossing gates or crossing warning lights to remain in operation in excess of
five minutes when no train of cars, car or engine is being operated at the
crossing.
(Ord. 72, passed 7-22-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.02 WHISTLE BLOWING.
   It shall be unlawful for an engineer of a locomotive to ring the bell or
blow the whistle of a railroad locomotive on any railroad line within the
corporate limits of the city, except as a warning against immediate threatened
danger or peril.
(Ord. 72, passed 7-22-1991) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 72.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and its publication once in the official newspaper of the city. The ordinance
codified herein was published on 7-22-1991.
(Ord. 72, passed 7-22-1991)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Truck routes
   
II.   Delivery and receiving vehicles
SCHEDULE I. TRUCK ROUTES.
   (A)   The following streets and highways within the city are hereby
designated as truck routes:
      (1)   Fourth Street from Thirty-Seventh Avenue to Forty-Third Avenue;
      (2)   Forty-Third Avenue from Fourth Street to Fifth Street;
      (3)   Forty-First Avenue from CSAH No. 32 (also known as Sixth Street) to
Theurer Boulevard (also known as Second Street);
      (4)   Forty-Fourth Avenue from CSAH No. 32 (also known as Sixth Street)
to the southerly line of the Canadian Pacific Railroad right-of-way;
      (5)   Theurer Boulevard (also known as Second Street) from the east line
of the city limits to the west line of the city limits;
      (6)   Fifth Street from Forty-Fourth Avenue to Forty-First Avenue;
      (7)   Thirty-Fourth and Thirty-Fifth Avenues from Service Drive (also
known as Eleventh Street) to Eighth Street and Eighth Street from Thirty-Fourth
Avenue to Thirty-Fifth Avenue;
      (8)   Service Drive (also known as Eleventh Street) from Fifty-Fourth
Avenue to the east line of the city limits;
      (9)   Fifty-Fourth Avenue from Service Drive (also known as Eleventh
Street) to the northerly line of the Canadian Pacific Railroad right-of-way;
      (10)   Sixty-Eighth Avenue (also known as Frank Street) from Martina Road
(also known as Eleventh Street) to Sixth Street (also known as CSAH No. 32);
      (11)   Seventy-First Avenue from Martina Road (also known as Eleventh
Street) to Sixth Street (also known as CSAH No. 32);
      (12)   Seventy-First Avenue easterly to the Sixty-Sixth block of Martina
Road (also known as Eleventh Street); and
      (13)   Fifth Street westerly from the west line of Sixty-Third Avenue 340
feet and easterly 1,150 feet.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this schedule shall be a petty
misdemeanor punishable by a fine up to the statutory limit allowed.
   (C)   Ordinance 34.3 was published on 4-30-1984. Ordinance 34.4 was
published on 6-19-1984.
(Ord. 34.3, passed 4-23-1984; Ord. 34.4, passed 6-11-1984; Ord. passed 10-23-
2017)
SCHEDULE II. DELIVERY AND RECEIVING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Unless specifically allowed by permit as provided herein, it shall be
unlawful for any person to operate any motor vehicle with a licensed gross
vehicle weight in excess of 12,000 pounds upon any street within the city,
except upon designated truck routes, and except vehicles delivering or
receiving cargo; provided, however, the delivery and receiving vehicles shall
follow only designated truck routes to the intersection nearest their delivery
or receiving point, and shall proceed by the shortest route to their delivery
or receiving point and, after their delivery or receipt, return to the nearest
designated truck route by the shortest route.
   (B)   Violation of any provision of this schedule shall be a petty
misdemeanor punishable by a fine up to the statutory limit allowed.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2017)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
   
I.   Prohibited parking
SCHEDULE I. PROHIBITED PARKING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of any way or
place when any part thereof is open to the use of the public, as a matter of
right, for the purposes of vehicular traffic.
      VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or
may be transported or drawn upon any street or highway.
   (B)   Winter time parking restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person
or owner to park, abandon or leave standing any vehicle upon any street or
highway within the city between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. during the
months of November, December, January, February and March of each year.
   (C)   Prohibiting parking. It shall be unlawful for any person or owner to
park, abandon, or leave standing any vehicle upon any street or highway within
the city, for a period of time exceeding 24 consecutive hours during any and
all months of the year.
   (D)   No parking zones. Where curbs are painted yellow and/or signs are
erected giving notice thereof no person shall park, abandon or leave standing
any vehicle, whether attended or unattended in the designated no parking zone.
   (E)   Penalties of violation. Any vehicle parked in violation of this
schedule is subject to citation and/or towing. Any fees related to towing will
be the responsibility of the vehicle’s owner. The city is not responsible for
any damages incurred during the towing process. A release from the Police
Department will be required for any vehicle towed for reasons stated in this
schedule. Violation of the provisions of this schedule shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
   (F)   Effective date. This schedule shall take effect from and after its
passage by the City Council and its publication in the official newspaper of
the city.
(Ord. 38.8, passed 5-17-2010)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
93.   FIRE PROTECTION; PREVENTION
      
94.   UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
      
95.   PARKS AND RECREATION
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Number of dogs restricted
   
90.03   License required
   
90.04   Date of payment
   
90.05   Receipts and tags
   
90.06   Affixing tags
   
90.07   Duplicate tags
   
90.08   Impoundment
   
90.09   Notice of impoundment
   
90.10   Impoundment fees and redemption
   
90.11   Disposition of unclaimed dogs
   
90.12   City kennel or dog pound
   
90.13   Certain dogs restricted
   
90.14   Certain dogs quarantined
   
90.15   Muzzling proclamation
   
90.16   Interference with officers
   
90.17   Tags; offenses
   
90.18   Effective date
Livestock and Fowl
   
90.30   Prohibition
   
90.31   Exception
   
90.32   Application
   
90.33   Approval
   
90.34   Effective date
Urban Chickens
   90.50   Definitions
   90.51   Purpose of chickens
   90.52   Permitting
   90.53   General permit requirements
   90.54   Running at large
   90.55   Enforcement
 
   
90.99   Penalty
DOGS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the control of the
owner or a member of his or her immediate family, either by leash or otherwise.
The RUNNING AT LARGE of dogs is prohibited at all times.
   CUSTODIAN. Any person or business entity owning, harboring or keeping a dog
either permanently or temporarily.
   HOUSEHOLDER OCCUPANT. Any person who ordinarily exercises dominion or
possession over a residence, office, store, building or shop or other premises
which is generally deemed to be a single unit of occupancy within the city
whether as an owner, landlord, tenant or otherwise.
   OWNER. Any person, firm or corporation owning, harboring, keeping a dog or
allowing the same to be about his or her premises.
   POUNDMASTER. Any person authorized by the city to enforce the provisions of
this subchapter.
   RESIDENCE. Any dwelling, abode or apartment wherein a single family
customarily resides.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 90.02 NUMBER OF DOGS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any householder or occupant to possess,
harbor, keep or allow to be kept or to maintain for any purpose whatever more
than two dogs over the age of 15 days at his or her residence or at any other
single unit of occupancy within the city.
   (B)   Temporary permission to keep dogs of this number over the age of 15
days may be granted for periods as determined by the City Council upon
application being made thereto. The Council shall investigate all applications
and shall not grant temporary permission unless it is satisfied that other
residents of the city will not be annoyed thereby.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No dog owner shall keep any dog over six months of age within the city
after 3-1-1958 unless a license therefor has first been secured. Licenses shall
be issued by the City Clerk for a fee as set forth by the City Council each
year in the ordinance establishing the rates and charges for the city (see §
32.01). All licenses shall expire on the last day of February following their
issuance.
   (B)   No person shall be issued a license for any dog unless application
therefor is accompanied by appropriate written proof from a licensed
veterinarian that the dog for which application is being made has been
inoculated against hydrophobia (rabies) so such that the last inoculation given
the dog for rabies will be considered effective until February 28 of the year
following the expiration date of the current licensing period.
   (C)   This section shall take effect and be in full force on the day
following its publication in the official city newspaper.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976; Ord. 26.1,
passed 4-12-1976; Ord. 26.11, passed 10-30-1978; Ord. 26.6, passed 1-4-2010;
Ord. 2017-02, passed 8-28-2017)
§ 90.04 DATE OF PAYMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog to pay the license fee
imposed in §
90.03 to the City Administrator on or before March 1 each year, or upon
acquiring ownership or possession of any unlicensed dog, or upon establishing
residence in the city. The City Administrator shall cause a notice of the
necessity of paying the license fee to be printed in the official newspaper of
the city one time prior to March 1, or by mailing the notice to residents in
each year thereafter. In the event that payment of the license fee due on March
1 is not received, the cost of the license shall be double the original amount.
The owner of a dog newly acquired after March 1 or a new resident establishing
a residence after March 1 shall not be subject to the penalty for that year.
However, failure of all other persons to obtain the required license is a
violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   The ordinance codified herein was published on 11-8-1978.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976; Ord. 26.11,
passed 10-30-1978; Ord. 2011-03 (26.7), passed 1-24-2011; Ord. 90, passed 1-7-
2019)
§ 90.05 RECEIPTS AND TAGS.
   (A)   Upon payment of the license fee, the City Administrator shall execute
a receipt in duplicate.
   (B)   He or she shall deliver the original to the person who pays the fee,
retaining the duplicate. He or she shall also procure a sufficient number of
suitable metallic tags, the shape of which shall vary from year to year; and he
or she shall deliver one appropriate tag to the owner upon payment of the fee.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 90.06 AFFIXING TAGS.
   The owner shall cause the tag to be affixed by a permanent metal fastening
to the collar of the dog so licensed, in a manner that the tag may be easily
seen by the officers of the city. The owner shall see that the tag is
constantly worn by the dog.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 90.07 DUPLICATE TAGS.
   In case any tag is lost, a duplicate may be issued by the City Administrator
upon presentation of a receipt showing payment of the current license fee. A
charge of $1 shall be made for each duplicate issued.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 90.08 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any dog found unlicensed or running at large or found in violation of any
provision of this subchapter, including for any act which constitutes a
nuisance under §
90.13, may be impounded by the Poundmaster or any police officer, who shall
give notice of the impounding to the owner if known, or if the owner is
unknown, the officer shall post notice in accordance with §
90.09. The law enforcement officers and/or Poundmaster or Deputy Poundmaster
shall take up and impound any dogs possessed, harbored, kept or allowed to be
about the premises or maintained contrary to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 90.09 NOTICE OF IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   Upon taking up and impounding any dog, the Poundmaster or police
officer shall immediately post in one or more conspicuous places in the city a
notice of impounding in substantially the following form:
NOTICE OF IMPOUNDING DOG TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN
Date
                                                                                                                                               
I have this day taken up and impounded in the kennel of the City at  (address)
is a dog answering to the following description: Sex
                            Color                             Breed
                             
Approximate Age
                                                                                                                            
Name of Owner (if known)                      
Notice is hereby given that unless said dog is claimed and redeemed on or
                                      before                      at
                      o’clock                      .M. the same shall be
disposed of as provided by ordinance.
Signed
                                                                                                                                            
   (B)   The date of disposal of the dog shall be the fifth day after the
posting of the notice unless that day falls on a Sunday or holiday, in which
case, it shall be the following day. It shall be the duty of the dog catcher
and kennel operator to telephone any owner of an impounded dog and convey the
substance of the notice, provided that the name of the owner is known to the
operator or if the dog is licensed.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 90.10 IMPOUNDMENT FEES AND REDEMPTION.
   (A)   The householder or owner of any dog so impounded shall be liable to
the city for the payment of an impounding fee which shall be $20 and a charge
of $7 for feeding and boarding for each day the dog is impounded and for any
other costs so incurred in impounding the dog. The charges contained therein
may be changed by ordinance by the City Council. Any householder or owner of
any impounded dog desiring the dog to be restored to his or her possession
shall pay to the city, prior to the redemption, all fees and charges; provided,
however, that failure of any householder or owner of any impounded dog to seek
or obtain the redemption of any impounded dog shall not relieve the householder
or owner of the obligation to pay the fees and charges. Prior to the redemption
of any impounded dog that is not licensed as required by this subchapter or
other applicable law, the householder or owner seeking the redemption shall
cause the dog to be properly licensed.
   (B)   This section shall take effect and be in full force on the day
following its publication in the official city newspaper.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26.2, passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26,
passed 2-23-1976; Ord. 26.6, passed 1-4-2010)
§ 90.11 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED DOGS.
   Any dog which is unredeemed or unclaimed within five days after the
impounding shall be disposed of by the kennel operator, pursuant to M.S. §
35.71, as may be amended from time to time. If this cannot be done, the kennel
operator may sell or give away and turn over any proceeds of the sale to the
City Administrator and the receipt of the City Administrator shall constitute a
bill of sale for the purchaser. No unlicensed dog shall be redeemed unless the
householder, custodian or owner shall first have compiled with the requirements
of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.12 CITY KENNEL OR DOG POUND.
   (A)   The City Council shall, each year, establish an official city kennel
or dog pound. The City Council may also contract with another municipality’s or
political subdivision’s Poundmaster and the use of a dog pound at fees to be
agreed upon. All claims for the operation of a kennel or dog pound, or the
services of a Poundmaster, shall be presented monthly for payment.
   (B)   In the event that the City Council contracts with another municipality
or political subdivision for the services of a Poundmaster and the use of a dog
pound, the City Council agrees to save harmless from all claims and suits,
damages, expense, cost and charges, including attorney’s fees, and all loss and
liability arising from the exercise of dog control and the impoundment and
keeping or destroying of dogs as may result from the services of the
Poundmaster and the issue of the dog pound of the municipality.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 90.13 CERTAIN DOGS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   The owner or custodian of any dog shall prevent the dog(s) from
committing within the city any act which constitutes a nuisance. It is a
nuisance for any dog to run at large, to habitually or frequently bark or cry
or howl, to frequent school grounds, parks or public places, to chase vehicles,
to molest or annoy any person away from the property of his or her owner or
custodian. No person having the custody or control of a dog shall permit the
dog to damage any lawn, garden or other property, public or private, or to
urinate or defecate on private property without the consent of the owner or
possessor of the property. It shall be the duty of each person having the
custody or control of a dog to remove any feces left by the dog on any
sidewalk, gutter, street, park land or other public property, or on any public
area, and to dispose of the feces in a sanitary manner.
   (B)   Failure of the owner or custodian of a dog to prevent the dog from
committing a nuisance is a violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   This section shall take effect on the day following its publication in
the official city newspaper.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976; Ord. 26.3,
passed 2-13-1989) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 CERTAIN DOGS QUARANTINED.
   Any dog which bites a person shall be quarantined for a time as may be
directed by the City Health Officer or his or her Deputy. During quarantine,
the animal shall be securely confined and kept from contact with any other
animal. At the discretion of the Health Officer, the quarantine may be on the
premises of the owner; however, if the Health Officer requires other
confinement, the owner shall surrender the animal for the quarantine period to
an animal shelter or shall, at his or her own expense, place in a veterinary
hospital.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976)
§ 90.15 MUZZLING PROCLAMATION.
   Whenever the prevalence of rabies renders the action necessary to protect
the public health and safety, the Council shall issue a proclamation ordering
every person owning or keeping a dog to muzzle it securely so that it cannot
bite. No person shall violate the proclamation and any unmuzzled dog
unrestrained during the time fixed in the proclamation shall be subject to
impoundment, as heretofore provided, and the owner of the dog shall be subject
to the penalty hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.16 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to break open the kennel or to attempt
to do so, or to take or let any dog therefrom or to take or attempt to take
from any officer any dog taken up by him or her in compliance with this
subchapter or, in any manner, to interfere with or hinder the officer in the
discharge of his or her duties under this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.17 TAGS; OFFENSES.
   It shall be unlawful to counterfeit license tags provided for in this
subchapter. The license tags lawfully issued are not transferable and it is
unlawful to transfer a license tag from one dog to another. No refund shall be
granted upon death of a licensed dog or because of leaving the city. The City
Administrator shall keep a register of name, breed, color and owner of each dog
licensed, which the register shall be a public record.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976) Penalty, see
§
90.99
§ 90.18 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect from and after its passage by the City
Council. The ordinance codified herein was published on 3-10-1976.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord.
passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed 2-23-1976)
LIVESTOCK AND FOWL
§ 90.30 PROHIBITION.
   No horse, mule, donkey, pony, cow, goat, sheep, swine, fowl or animal raised
for fur-bearing purposes shall be kept by any person, firm or corporation
within the city limits without first obtaining a permit for maintenance of a
stable or coop.
(Ord. 45, passed 4-1-1968) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.31 EXCEPTION.
   This subchapter shall not apply to household cats, dogs, small cage birds or
aquatic and amphibian animals kept solely as pets.
(Ord. 45, passed 4-1-1968)
§ 90.32 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for the permit shall be filed with the City Administrator,
stating the applicant’s full name and address and containing a description of
the animal or fowl to be kept or maintained and a description of the premises,
and owner thereof, and adjoining owners, a description of pasturage area,
fence, shelter, sanitation and any other matters required by the Administrator
to assist in determining the effect on the general health and welfare of the
community.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued until approved by the City Council and the
following standards shall be required for approval.
      (1)   Complete and adequate fencing or enclosure must be provided and
must be at least 100 feet from any residential structure used for human
habitation.
      (2)   At least one acre of pasture must be available for each grazing
animal maintained.
      (3)   Approval must be obtained by all adjoining property owners of the
property used for maintaining the animals or fowl.
      (4)   Provisions shall be made for removal of manure and other waste, so
as not to create offensive odors or become unsightly or harbor rodents, flies
or insects.
      (5)   All other ordinances of the city must be compiled with.
(Ord. 45, passed 4-1-1968)
§ 90.33 APPROVAL.
   Upon approval by the City Council, the Administrator shall issue a permit
for the maintenance of a stable or keep for the calendar year and a fee shall
be paid by the applicant to the city in the amount of $25 annually.
(Ord. 45, passed 4-1-1968)
§ 90.34 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in full force from and after its
official passage and publication. The ordinance codified in this subchapter was
published on 4-18-1968.
(Ord. 45, passed 4-1-1968)
URBAN CHICKENS
§ 90.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BROODING. The period of chicken growth when supplemental heat must be
provided, due to the bird's inability to generate enough body heat.
   CHICKEN. A domesticated bird of the scientific name Gallus domesticus that
serves as a source of eggs or meat.
   COOP. The structure for the keeping or housing of chickens permitted by this
subchapter.
   FOWL OR POULTRY. Other members of the Galliformes order, including turkeys,
ducks, geese, pheasants, partridge, and quail.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2024)
§ 90.51 PURPOSE OF CHICKENS.
   It is recognized that the ability to cultivate one's own food is a
sustainable activity that can also be a rewarding pastime. Therefore, it is the
purpose and intent of this subchapter to permit the keeping and maintenance of
chicken hens for eggs and meat sources in a clean and sanitary manner that is
not a nuisance to or detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare of
the community.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2024)
§ 90.52 PERMITTING.
   (A)   Permits shall be issued by the City Clerk. Applications for permits
shall be made on forms provided by the Clerk.
   (B)   A chicken permit shall be valid for one year beginning January 1 of
each year. No reduction of the permit fee shall be made because of expiration
of a portion of the permit period time and no refund of any portion of the
permit fee shall be made at any time for any purpose. Submission of a site plan
or sketch shall be required with the permit.
   (C)   The annual chicken permit fee shall be as set by resolution of the
City Council. The permit fee shall be paid at the time of application.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2024)
§ 90.53 GENERAL PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall own, keep, harbor, or have custody of any live chickens
without first obtaining a permit from the city, subject to the following
conditions:
   (A)   The owner of the chickens shall live in the dwelling on the property;
   (B)   The keeping of any poultry besides chickens is prohibited;
   (C)   All chicken coops and runs must meet the requirements of the building
and zoning codes, including electrical permits if applicable;
   (D)   No person shall keep roosters, or adult male chickens, on any property
within the city;
   (E)   Chickens are specifically limited to the following designated zoning
districts: D-1, C-1, or A-1;
   (F)   No more than five chickens shall be housed or kept per household in
any area of the city zoned D-1, C-1 or A-1;
   (G)   Permits may be revoked due to cruelty to the chickens, if the chickens
become a nuisance, or any violation or non-compliance of this subchapter;
   (H)   Outdoor slaughtering of chickens in city limits is prohibited;
   (I)   Chicken fighting shall not be allowed within city limits;
   (J)   Chickens shall not be housed in a residential house or garage;
   (K)   Chickens must always be confined in a chicken coop or chicken run;
   (L)   Chicken coops and runs shall comply with the following requirements;
      (1)   Chicken coops must not exceed 20 square feet (by outside
dimensions); which is four square feet per chicken, or six feet in height.
Coops must be elevated with a clear open space of at least 24 inches between
the ground and the floor or framing of the coops. Construction shall be
adequate to prevent access by rodents;
      (2)   Located in the side or rear yard; (Note: Corner lots have two
frontages.)
      (3)   The shelter shall be situated closer to the chicken owner's
dwelling than to any of the neighboring dwellings;
      (4)   Any mobile coop or rolling coop must always meet all of the
required setbacks;
      (5)   Meet the setback of at least 25 feet from any residential dwelling
on any adjacent lot and at least ten feet from the property lines; and
      (6)   Chicken runs must not exceed 50 square feet, which is ten square
feet per chicken, or six feet in height, and may be enclosed with wood or woven
wire.
   (M)   All premises on which chickens are kept or maintained shall be kept
clean from filth, garbage, and any substances which attract rodents. The coop
and its surroundings must be cleaned frequently enough to control odor. Manure
shall not be allowed to accumulate in a way that causes an unsanitary condition
or causes odors detectible on another property;
   (N)   All food shall be stored in an enclosed, rodent proof container; and
   (O)   Dead chickens shall be disposed of according to the Minnesota Board of
Animal Health rules, which require chicken carcasses to be disposed of as soon
as possible after death, usually within 48 to 72 hours. Legal forms of chicken
carcass disposal include offsite burial, offsite incineration or rendering, or
offsite composting.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2024)
§ 90.54 RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No owner of any chicken, whether kept, harbored, or maintained within the
city, shall permit or suffer such chicken to run or move at large at any time
within the city. For the purpose of this section, every such chicken at large
shall be deemed at large with the permission and at the sufferance of its
owner, and in the event of a violation of the provisions of this section, it
shall be no defense that the offending chicken escaped or is otherwise at large
without the permission or sufferance of its owner.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2024)
§ 90.55 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Clerk or designee must obtain permission of the property owner to
inspect any chicken coop and/or run in response to any complaints of:
unlicensed chickens; excess chickens; excess odor or noise; unsanitary
conditions; the presence of roosters; or any other violation of this
subchapter. If the owner refuses, a licensed peace officer must obtain a
warrant to enter the property and search and seize any evidence of violations,
including, but not limited to, seizing roosters, unlicensed chickens, excess
chickens, or chickens kept in unsanitary conditions.
   (A)   Warning of violation. A police officer, or other official of the city,
is authorized to issue a written notice of violation of any provision(s) of
this subchapter, therein stating that a citation may be issued if the violation
continues.
   (B)   Issuance of citations. Any police officer or any other authorized
representative of the law may issue a citation to any person, firm, or entity
for any alleged violations of this subchapter and any other ordinance or
statute which provides the basis for prosecution of violations of this
subchapter. Nothing within this subchapter shall be construed to limit the
authority of police officers to enforce any provisions of this subchapter or
related statutes or ordinances. The police officer, or other official of the
city, is authorized to issue a citation to any person, group, or organization
for any alleged violation of this subchapter as often as each day the violation
persists.
   (C)   Revocation of permit. The City Council may revoke a chicken permit for
any violation of this chapter following written notice to the permit holder.
Before revoking any chicken permit, the city shall notify the owner by personal
service or certified mail of its intention to do so by stating the grounds upon
which the permit is being revoked and giving the permit holder the right to a
hearing before the City Council. Any request for a hearing by a permit holder
must be submitted in writing to the City Clerk no later than ten days following
service of the notice of revocation. If the permit holder within ten days
requests a hearing in compliance with the provisions established herein, a
hearing shall be held before the City Council to determine whether the permit
should be revoked. Following the hearing, the City Council shall, by
resolution, decide whether the revocation should occur and the basis for it. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within the ten days as
set forth above, then the revocation shall be effective on the tenth day
following service of the revocation notice.
      (1)   Any person whose permit is revoked shall, within ten days
thereafter, humanely dispose of all chickens being owned, kept, or harbored by
such person. Failure to comply with these conditions may result in the removal
and destruction of all chickens from the premises.
      (2)   Any person violating any conditions of this permit shall reimburse
the city for all costs incurred by the city to enforce the conditions of the
permit.
   (D)   Unless otherwise specified, any person violating the provisions of
this subchapter shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and this permit will be
revoked.
(Ord. passed 6-17-2024)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of §§
90.01 through
90.18, except the requirement to obtain a license for each dog, is herewith
declared a misdemeanor. Failure to obtain the proper license for the dog by the
owner or custodian is herewith declared a petty misdemeanor. Any person found
guilty of violation thereof may be punished by a fine or by imprisonment in the
county jail as set forth by ordinance by the City Council.
   (B)   Any permit granted hereunder may be revoked by the City Council at any
time for cause. Any person, firm or corporation violating the provisions of §§
90.30 through
90.34 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or by imprisonment of not to exceed 90
days.
   (C)   The first two violations of §
90.54 shall be deemed petty misdemeanors. Every violation thereafter of §
90.54 shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 1-28-1958; Ord. passed 5-16-1960; Ord. passed 2-17-1964; Ord. 45,
passed 4-1-1968; Ord. passed 5-15-1972; Ord. passed 8-6-1973; Ord. 26, passed
2-23-1976; Ord. 26.6, passed 1-4-2010; Ord. passed 6-17-2024)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
91.01   Curbs and gutters
   
91.02   Snow and ice deposits
   
91.03   Plantings prohibited within the city right-of-way
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 CURBS AND GUTTERS.
   (A)   Building permit required. No person, firm, partnership or corporation
shall install any curb, or curb and gutter, in any street in the city until an
application has been made to the City Administrator for a building permit and
an approved building permit issued for the installation.
   (B)   Application. Every application shall contain and state the following
facts and information:
      (1)   The lot and block or other description of the location of the
proposed installation;
      (2)   The number of lineal feet proposed;
      (3)   The location of driveways, if any, to be installed;
      (4)   The name of the contractor or other person doing the installation;
      (5)   The application shall be accompanied by a bond or a signed waiver
holding the city harmless and free from liability during the installation of
the curb, or curb and gutter; and
      (6)   The application, shall be accompanied by a permit fee of $0.75 per
foot, payable to the City Administrator as payment for the cost of the permit
and engineering service.
   (C)   Specifications. All curb, or curbs and gutters, shall conform to the
following.
      (1)   The location, elevation and design of all curbs, or curbs and
gutters, shall conform to the specifications established by the City Council
and on file with the City Administrator. The design of the State Highway
Department Type 6B24 Curb and Gutter is hereby adopted as standard by the city.
      (2)   The forms for the installation shall be staked out and approved by
the City Engineer or his or her authorized deputy.
      (3)   The curb, or curbs and gutters, shall be poured concrete, delivered
by a ready-mix truck. The concrete shall be 4,000 psi compression test. No
concrete shall be poured if the temperature is likely to go below 40°F unless
suitable provisions are made to heat it and keep it from freezing.
      (4)   The city will not assume the responsibility for proper physical
construction, but will assume responsibility for proper grade and alignment
pursuant to the city street, curb and gutter master plan.
   (D)   Nonconforming construction. Any curbs, or curbs and gutters, that are
installed in any city street not in compliance with the terms of this section
shall be considered temporary and may be removed by orders of the City Council,
and the cost of the removal shall be charged against the owner of the abutting
property and, if necessary, certified to the County Auditor for collection
along with other taxes for the city.
   (E)   Assessment policy. In the event the city undertakes a comprehensive
curb and gutter project, any property owner who has constructed curb and gutter
pursuant to this section will be credited with the current project construction
cost of the curb and gutter on its assessments therefor.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall take effect and be in full force
from and after its passage and publication. Ordinance 42 was published on 7-20-
1967. Ordinance 42.01 was published on 8-15-1978.
(Ord. 42, passed 7-17-1967; Ord. 42.01, passed 8-7-1978) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 SNOW AND ICE DEPOSITS.
   (A)   (1)   Unlawful snow removal.
         (a)   Discharge on public streets. It shall be unlawful to plow, push,
dump, grade, blow, shovel or, by any other means, deposit snow upon any street
or alley right-of-way of the city as a result of the removal or moving of snow
from private property; except, in areas of the city where curb and gutter has
been constructed, snow from properties abutting a boulevard may be stored in
the boulevard areas so long as the snow is not placed on sidewalks.
         (b)   Discharge on public lands. It shall be unlawful to plow, push,
dump, grade, blow, shovel or, by any other means, deposit snow upon any public
lands of the city without first obtaining the permission of the city.
         (c)   City removal exempt. All activities of the city relating to the
plowing, storage and removal of snow within the city are exempt from all
provisions of this section.
      (2)   Effective date. This division (A) shall take effect and be in full
force and from and after its passage and its publication once in the official
newspaper of the city. The ordinance codified herein was published on 2-12-
1980.
   (B)   (1)   The owner of any building or lot in the city abutting on or
adjoining any public sidewalk along CSAH No. 32 shall, within the first 24
hours after the ceasing to fall of any snow, remove or cause the removal of the
snow and/or ice from the sidewalk and shall cause sand and/or chemicals to be
sprinkled on the sidewalk where there is snow or ice that cannot be removed and
shall remove or cause the removal of the snow or ice within 24 hours
thereafter.
      (2)   In the event the owner of any land in the city abutting or
adjoining any public sidewalk along CSAH No. 32 rails to remove or cause the
removal of snow and/or ice from the sidewalk, the Director of Public Works or
his or her designated representative is authorized to cause the removal of the
snow and/or ice at the expense of the owner. The Director of Public Works may
provide that the work shall be done by city personnel or by an independent
contractor.
      (3)   Prior to removal of the snow, the Director of Public Works or his
or her designated representative shall cause notice to be served upon the
property owner. The notice shall be in writing, shall state that a violation
has occurred and that the city intends to remove or cause the removal of the
snow at the expense of the owner within 24 hours after service of the notice.
The notice shall be either served upon the owner of the property personally or
be sent by regular mail to the last known address of the owner of the property.
A notice tag shall also be affixed to the door of the principal building, if
one exists, situated on the property.
      (4)   If the snow and/or ice is not removed within the time provided by
the notice, the Director of Public Works or his or her designated
representative shall cause the removal of the snow and/or ice.
      (5)   Promptly upon completion of the work of snow and/or ice removal,
the Director of Public Works or his or her designated representative shall
serve upon the owner by regular mail an itemized statement of the reasonable
value of the labor and materials expended or the special charges incurred by a
contractor for the removal of the snow; the statement to include a $40
administrative fee, together with a demand for payment in full within 30 days
thereafter.
      (6)   If the owner fails to pay, the Director of Public Works shall cause
the charges as shown on the statement to be assessed against the land in the
manner provided by M.S. §§ 429.061, 429.071 and 429.101, as may be amended from
time to time.
      (7)   This division (B) shall be in full force and effect after its
adoption by the City Council and the publication of a summary of the ordinance,
which is hereby approved. The ordinance codified herein was published on 2-10-
2006.
(Ord. 66, passed 2-4-1980; Ord. 85, passed 2-6-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 PLANTINGS PROHIBITED WITHIN THE CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Purpose.  The city has identified and recognizes the risks to traffic,
bicycle and pedestrian safety that may be caused by the obstructed view of all
traffic forms created by the growth of vegetation or the placement of any other
items in the city right-of-way that obstructs or impairs the sight lines for
drivers, bicyclists and pedestrians in or about the right-of-way controlled by
the city. Therefore, to promote the good and general welfare and safety of its
citizens, the city, through its Council members, has determined the need to
regulate the control and eradication of any nuisance within the city’s right-
of-way.
   (B)   Restrictions.  It shall be unlawful for any person to plant any trees
or shrubs within the city right-of-way. Any other vegetation or objects planted
or placed within the right-of-way that obstructs or impairs the view of any of
the traffic forms as stated in division (A) above, or that interferes with the
safety of residents, or is otherwise defined as a nuisance under the city’s
nuisance ordinance, is also unlawful.
(Ord. 2017-01, passed 5-1-2017) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating §
91.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine of not less than $10 or more than $100 or for imprisonment
for not more than 90 days.
   (C)   Any person violating §
91.02(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more
than $300 or may be imprisoned for not more than 90 days or both, or the then
current penalties for the commission of a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Violation of §
91.03 shall be a petty misdemeanor carrying a fine up to the maximum allowed by
state statute. In addition, the city reserves the right to eliminate or remove
any such objects or growth from the right-of-way area, upon reasonable notice
to the applicable property owner or occupant, and to assess the applicable
property owner for the expense of such efforts.
(Ord. 42, passed 7-17-1967; Ord. 66, passed 2-4-1980; Ord. 2017-01, passed 5-1-
2017)
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Nuisances generally
   
92.02   Dutch Elm Disease
Public Nuisances
   
92.15   Public nuisance prohibition
   
92.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
92.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
92.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.19   Noise violations
   
92.20   Nuisance parking and storage
   
92.21   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
92.22   Duties of city officers
   
92.23   Abatement procedure
   
92.24   Recovery of cost
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 NUISANCES GENERALLY.
   (A)   Weeds.
      (1)   “Weeds” defined. WEEDS shall mean and include not only noxious
weeds as are enumerated in Minn. Rules part 1505.0730, but also undesirable,
useless, uncultivated and troublesome plants as are commonly known as weeds to
the general public and all pollen producing plants which are a hazard to
hayfever sufferers.
      (2)   Permitting or maintaining growth. It shall be unlawful for any
owner or occupant, if other than the owner, of any occupied or unoccupied lot
or land or any part thereof, to permit or maintain on any lot or land, or on or
along the sidewalk, street or alley adjacent to the same between the property
line and the curb or middle of the alley or for ten feet outside the property
line if there be no curb, any growth of weeds and/or grass, brush or other rank
vegetation to a greater height than six inches on the average or any
accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush which may conceal filthy deposits of
garbage and refuse and provide harborage for rodents; provided that, in those
blocks that are 25% developed or less, weeds and the like shall be cut at least
once during the growing season at the discretion of the Weed Inspector.
      (3)   Duty of owner and occupant to remove. It shall be the duty of any
owner and occupant, if other than the owner, of any lot or land or any part
thereof, to cut and remove or cause to be cut and removed all weeds and/or
grass, brush and rank vegetation as often as may be necessary to comply with
the provisions of this section; provided that, the cutting and removing of the
weeds and/or grass, brush and rank vegetation at least once in every three
weeks, between May 15 and September 15, shall be considered compliance with
this section.
      (4)   Publication of general notice for control and eradication. A
general notice for the control and eradication of weeds and/or grass, brush and
rank vegetation shall be published in the official newspaper on or before May
15 of each year. Failure of the Weed Inspector to publish a general weed notice
or to serve individual notices herein provided does not relieve any person from
the necessity of full compliance with any and all provisions and regulations of
this section. In all cases, the published notice shall be deemed legal and
sufficient notice.
      (5)   Serving notices. Whenever the City Weed Inspector finds it
necessary to secure prompt eradication or cutting and removal of weeds and/or
grass, brush and rank vegetation in individual cases or in the event of failure
to comply with the general published notice, the City Weed Inspector shall
serve individual notices in writing upon the owner and occupant, if other than
the owner, giving specific instructions when and how the weeds and/or grass,
brush and rank vegetation are to be cut and removed. The notice shall be served
upon the owner of the property and on the occupant, if other than the owner,
either personally or by certified mail, mailed to the last known address of the
owner and occupant of the property. For purposes of serving by certified mail,
the addressee is considered to have been served the notice five days after the
date appearing on the certificate of mailing. A notice tag shall also be
affixed to the door of any building situated on the property. Service on an
owner living temporarily or permanently outside of the city whose property is
vacant or unoccupied may be made by sending the notice by certified mail to the
last known address of the person, to be ascertained, if necessary, from
available public records. For purposes of certified mail, the addressee is
considered to have been served the notice five days after the date appearing on
the certificate of mailing.
      (6)   Removal by city. If any owner or occupant, if other than the owner,
upon whom the individual notice is served, fails to comply with the notice
either by refusal or neglect to cut and remove the weeds and/or grass, brush
and rank vegetation within seven days after service of the notice, the City
Weed Inspector shall cause the weeds and/or grass, brush and rank vegetation to
be cut and removed. Promptly upon completion of the work of removal of the
weeds and/or grass, brush and rank vegetation, the City Administrator or his or
her designated representative shall serve upon the owner by first class mail an
itemized statement of the actual cost of the cutting and removal, plus the
actual cost of supervision, including cost of serving notice upon the person
responsible for the cutting and removal; the statement to include a $40
administrative fee. If the owner fails to pay, the City Administrator shall
submit to the City Council the itemized accounting of costs and a
recommendation that the City Council by resolution authorize that an assessment
be levied upon the lot or land in accordance with M.S. Ch. 429, as may be
amended from time to time. The owner of any property so assessed may, at any
time prior to certification of the assessment to the County Auditor, pay the
whole of the assessment on the property with interest accrued to the date of
payment to the city offices; except that, no interest shall be charged if the
entire assessment is paid within 30 days of the date of adoption of the
assessment resolution.
   (B)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect after
its adoption by the City Council and its summary publication in the official
newspaper of the city. The ordinance codified herein was published on 4-24-
2006.
(Ord. 87, passed 3-20-2006; Ord. 2011-1 (87.1), passed 1-24-2011) Penalty, see
§
92.99
§ 92.02 DUTCH ELM DISEASE.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. The City Council has determined that the health
of the elm trees within the municipal limits may be threatened by a fatal
disease known as Dutch Elm Disease. It is further determined that the loss of
elm trees growing upon public and private property would substantially
depreciate the value of property within the city and impair the safety, good
order, general welfare and convenience of the public
   (B)   Position created. The position of Tree Inspector is hereby created and
the Tree Inspector shall have the powers and duties as set forth in this
section.
   (C)   Duties of Tree Inspector. It is the duty of the Tree Inspector to
coordinate, under the direction and control of the City Council, all activities
of the city relating to the control and prevention of Dutch Elm Disease. He or
she shall recommend to the City Council the details of a program of Dutch Elm
Disease control and perform the duties incident to a program adopted by the
City Council.
   (D)   Dutch Elm Disease program. It is the intention of the City Council to
conduct a program of plant pest control pursuant to the authority granted by
M.S. § 18G.13, as may be amended from time to time. This program is directed
specifically at the control and elimination of Dutch Elm Disease, fungus and
elm bark beetles, and is undertaken at the recommendation of the Commissioner
of Agriculture. The City Tree Inspector shall act as coordinator between the
Commissioner of Agriculture and the City Council in the conduct of this
program.
   (E)   Nuisances declared. The following things are public nuisances whenever
they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or plant thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch Elm fungus OeratooyBtls Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or which
harbors any of the elm bark beetles Soolytus MuitiBtriatue (Bichh.) or
Hylugopinus Rufipee (Marsh); and
      (2)   Any dead elm tree, or any part thereof, including logs, branches,
stumps, firewood or any other elm material from which the bark has not been
removed and burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide.
   (F)   Abatement. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
permit any public nuisance, as defined herein, to remain on any premises owned
or controlled by him or her within the city. The nuisances may be abated in a
manner prescribed hereinafter by this section.
   (G)   Inspection and investigation.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector shall inspect all premises and places within the
city as often as practicable to determine whether any condition described in
division (E) above exists thereon. He or she shall investigate all reported
incidents of infestation by Dutch elm fungus or elm bark beetles.
      (2)   The Tree Inspector, or his or her duly authorized agents, may enter
upon the private premises at any reasonable time for the purposes of carrying
out any of the duties assigned to him or her under this section.
      (3)   The Tree Inspector shall, upon finding conditions indicating Dutch
Elm Disease infestation, immediately send appropriate specimens or samples to
the Commissioner of Agriculture for analysis, or take other steps for diagnosis
as may be recommended by the Commissioner. Except as provided in division (F)
above, no action to remove infected trees or wood shall be taken until positive
diagnosis of the disease has been made.
   (H)   Abatement of Dutch Elm Disease nuisance. In abating nuisance, as
defined in division (E) above, the Tree Inspector shall cause the infected tree
or wood to be sprayed, removed, burned or otherwise effectively treated, so as
to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the spread of Dutch Elm Disease
fungus and elm bark beetles. The abatement procedures shall be carried out in
accordance with current technical and expert opinions and plans as may be
designated by the Commissioner of Agriculture.
   (I)   Procedure for removal of infected trees and wood. Whenever the Tree
Inspector finds, with reasonable certainty, that the infestation defined in
division (E) above exists in any tree or wood in any public or private place in
the city, he or she shall proceed as follows:
      (1)   If the Tree Inspector finds that the danger of infestation of other
elm trees is not imminent because of elm dormancy, he or she shall make a
written report of his or her findings to the City Council which shall proceed
by:
         (a)   Abating the nuisance as a public improvement under M.S. Ch. 429,
as may be amended from time to time; or
         (b)   Abating the nuisance as provided in division (H) above.
      (2)   If the Tree Inspector finds that the danger of infestation of other
elm trees is imminent, he or she shall notify the abutting property owner by
certified mail that the nuisance will be abated within a specified time, not
loss than five days from the date of mailing of the notice. The Tree Inspector
shall immediately report the action to the City Council, and after expiration
of time limited by the notice, he or she may abate the nuisance.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the Tree Inspector’s report required by division
(I)(1) above, the City Council shall, by resolution, order the nuisance abated.
Before action is taken on the resolution, the City Council shall publish notice
of its intentions to meet to consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This
notice shall be mailed to the affected property owners and published once, not
less than one week prior to the meeting. The notice shall state the time and
place of the meeting, the streets affected, the action proposed, the estimated
cost of the abatement and the proposed basis of assessment, if any, of the
costs. At the meeting, or adjournment thereof, the City Council shall hear
property owners with reference to the scope and desirability of the proposed
abatement. The City Council shall thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the
original resolution with modifications as it considers desirable and provide
for doing the work by day labor or by contract.
      (4)   The Tree Inspector shall keep a record of the costs of abatements
done under this division (I) and shall report monthly to the City Administrator
all work done for which assessments are to be made, stating and certifying the
description of the lots, parcels or land involved and the amount chargeable to
each.
      (5)   On or before September 30 of each year, the City Administrator
shall list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate
lot, parcel or land to which they are attributable under this section. The City
Council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof against the property
involved as a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as may be amended from
time to time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County
Auditor for collection the following year, along with current taxes.
   (J)   Spraying elm trees. Whenever the Tree Inspector determines that any
elm tree or elm wood within the city is infected with Dutch elm fungus, he or
she may spray all nearby high value elm trees with an effective elm bark beetle
destroying solution. Spraying activities authorized by this section shall be
conducted in accordance with technical and expert opinions and plans by the
Commissioner of Agriculture and under the supervision of the Commissioner and
his or her agents whenever possible. The notice provisions of division (I)
above apply to spraying operations conducted under this section.
   (K)   Transporting elm wood. It is unlawful for any person to transport,
within the city, any bark bearing elm wood without having obtained a permit
from the Tree Inspector. The Tree Inspector shall grant permits only when the
purposes of this section shall be served thereby.
   (L)   Interference. It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or
interfere with the Tree Inspector or his or her agent while they are engaged in
the performance of the duties imposed under this section.
   (M)   Effective date. This section shall he in effect and be in force from
and after its passage and publication. The ordinance codified herein was
published on 8-15-1969.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-21-1969) Penalty, see §
92.99
PUBLIC NUISANCES
§ 92.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITION.
   A person must not act, or fail to act, in a manner that is or causes a
public nuisance. For purpose of this subchapter, a person that does any of the
following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures,
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage, any
public highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or this subchapter to
be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2011-01 (87.1), passed 1-24-2011) Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   The exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water, exception of water holding areas
required for stormwater drainage;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulation of manure, refuse, toxic and hazardous waste, or other
debris, exposed for over seven consecutive days;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight,
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other substances;
   (H)   A building or its appurtenances, a road, a driveway, a parking area,
or any open area used without the application of all reasonable measures to
prevent particulate matter from becoming airborne. Particulate matter includes
dust, dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, cinders, or any material,
substance, or vapor irritating or noxious to human life; and
   (I) Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
(Ord. 2011-01 (87.1), passed 1-24-2011)
§ 92.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines, and punch boards, except
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state, or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All buildings or places kept for the purpose of prostitution or
promiscuous sexual intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdy
houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is manufactured or
disposed of in violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are
permitted to resort, for the purpose of drinking intoxicating or 3.2 malt
liquor, or where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is kept for sale or other
disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and other property used for
maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other
immoral or illegal purpose. For the purposes of this subchapter, a VEHICLE
shall be defined as every device in, upon, or by which any person or property
is or may be transported or drawn upon a highway, excepting devices used
exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks.
(Ord. 2011-01 (87.1), passed 1-24-2011)
§ 92.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (B)   All wires, limbs of trees, or other objects that are so close to the
surface of a public sidewalk, alley, or street as to constitute a danger to
pedestrians or vehicles;
   (C)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations;
   (D)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds, except under conditions as are
permitted by this subchapter or other applicable law;
   (E)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (F)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk that causes large crowds of people to gather,
which obstructs traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (G)   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated as to endanger public safety, or not constructed and
maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (H)   The allowing of rainwater, ice, or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (I)   Any barbed wire fence located less than six feet above the ground and
within three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (J)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (K)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
properties;
   (L)   Any well, hole, or similar excavation that is left uncovered or in
such other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person or
vehicle coming on the premises where it is located;
   (M)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (N)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk, or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substances that may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over such
substance;
   (O)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (P)   An animal running at large; AT LARGE defined to be not properly in
control by the owner or custodian, and not on the private property of the owner
or custodian. CONTROL would be defined as to be in verbal control, on a leash,
or with an electronic collar;
   (Q)   The storage or accumulation of junk or other refuse in direct sight at
ground level from any public right-of-way or adjoining private property, which
is stored in a manner conducive to the harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or
vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation among the items so accumulated, or in
a manner creating fire, health, or other safety hazards from such accumulation.
Property kept in a licensed place is excepted. Building materials may be kept
outside of an enclosed structure for a maximum of 30 days following the
expiration of a building permit for which such material has been acquired. For
the purpose of this section, JUNK is defined as any material or substance which
does not serve, nor is it intended to serve, any useful purpose or the purpose
for which it was originally intended. JUNK is considered to include, but is not
limited to, refuse, empty cans, bottles, debris, used furniture, discarded or
disused machinery, appliances, clothing, papers, boxes, pallets, tires, iron,
brass, copper, or other metals or materials;
   (R)   Explosives kept without a license;
   (S)   Intentionally establishing and maintaining a condition, including
providing food, in or adjacent to a residential district by an owner, tenant,
or occupant which attracts wild animals (i.e.; feral cats, deer, raccoons, and
the like), to the property and/or adjoining property;
   (T)   A building or structure within the city infested with rats or other
vermin;
   (U)   In any area of the city, the existence of a structure which because of
fire, wind, natural disaster or physical deterioration is no longer suitable
nor useful for the purpose for which it was intended;
   (V)   In any area zoned for residential purposes, the existence of a vacant
dwelling, garage, or other out-building, unless such building is kept securely
locked, windows kept glazed or neatly boarded up or otherwise protected to
prevent entrance by vandals or children for a period not to exceed three days.
This provision is not applicable to residential structures that are being
actively marketed for sale;
   (W)   Any person participating in any party or other gathering that causes
the unreasonable disturbing of the peace, quiet, or repose of another person;
and
   (X)   All other conditions or things that are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of another.
(Ord. 2011-01 (87.1), passed 1-24-2011)
§ 92.19 NOISE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited noises. The following are declared to be nuisances
affecting public health, safety, peace, or welfare:
      (1)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or
welfare of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property, or affects
their property’s value (this general prohibition is not limited by any specific
restrictions provided in this subchapter);
      (2)   All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation of
Minn. Rules Ch. 7030, as they may be amended from time to time, are hereby
incorporated into this subchapter by reference;
      (3)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile, or any recreational
device, except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
      (4)   (a)   The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of
any radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device,
paging system, machine, or other device for producing or reproduction of sound
in a distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet,
and comfort of any person nearby, or interferes with the right of another to
use peacefully his or her property or public property without disturbance.
Unless permitted by the City.
         (b)   It shall be presumed that a violation of division (A)(4)(a) of
this section has occurred when any electronic sound system or audio equipment
is operated in a manner in which it is plainly audible, at a distance of 50
feet or more, between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at a distance
of 100 feet or more, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:30 p.m.;
      (5)   A dog present in or kept in a residential district or in a district
adjacent to a residential district, which habitually barks, whines, or growls;
      (6)   A person shall not permit or participate in any party or other
gathering of people, on public or private property, which causes unreasonably
loud noise that disturbs the peace, quiet and comfort of others or interferes
with the right of another to use peacefully his or her property or public
property without disturbance. It shall be presumed that a violation of this
section has occurred when any noise from a gathering is plainly audible, at a
distance of 50 feet or more, between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
      (7)   When a police officer has probable cause that a violation of this
section is occurring, the officer may order all persons present, other than the
owner or tenant of the premises, to disperse and leave the premises
immediately. It shall be a violation of this section for any person to refuse
to leave after being so ordered by the police officer.; and
      (8)   When sound violating this section is produced by an electronic
sound system or audio equipment that is located in or on a vehicle, the
vehicle’s owner is guilty of the violation; provided that, if the vehicle’s
owner is not present, the person in possession of the vehicle at the time of
the violation is guilty of the violation.
      (9)   This section shall not apply to sound produced by the following:
         (a)   Amplifying equipment used in connection with activities for
which a permit has been granted or in connection with activities of any
organized school, church, approved civic celebrations or other event or
activity open to the public;
         (b)   Anti-theft devices;
         (c)   Church bells, chimes or carillons, school bells or emergency
civil defense warning signals; and
         (d)   Authorized emergency vehicles or other vehicles required by law
to be equipped with sound devices.
   (B)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
      (1)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill, or
other similar domestic power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
      (2)   Refuse hauling. A collector shall collect from his or her customer
only between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. No collections shall be
allowed on Sundays, New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, July Fourth, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day.
      (3)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday. This prohibition shall not apply to work being
performed by employees of the city, the county or state in the performance of
their official duties or work performed in an emergency situation.
   (C)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person applying
for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any structure,
operation, process, installation, alteration, or project that may be considered
a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a form
prescribed by the Council. The Council shall evaluate each such statement and
take its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or
permit applied for or the zoning changes requested.
(Ord. 2011-01 (87.1), passed 1-24-2011) Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.20 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking on streets in residential
zones and storage on residentially zoned property more than two vehicles
(unless receiving permission by the City Council to have more), materials,
supplies, or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes in
violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Prevents the full use of residential streets for residential
parking;
      (4)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (5)   Decreases adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ use and enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood; or
      (6)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of ice fishing houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses, or other similar non-
permanent structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front
yard area of residential property.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in conjunction with a business, outside on residential property.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit, or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements:
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. The maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional guests
who do not reside on the property;
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front yard
areas must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area; and
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft, and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away from school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
(Ord. 2011-01 (87.1), passed 1-24-2011) Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.21 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Any motor vehicle described in this section
shall constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the
community as such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and
breeding ground for vermin, and present physical danger to the safety and well-
being of children and citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids
which, if released into the environment, can and do cause significant health
risks to the community.
   (B)   (1)   In any area, the storage of junk automobiles, racing cars, stock
cars, or trucks in the open. For the purpose of this section, the term JUNK
AUTOMOBILES shall include any motor vehicle, part of a motor vehicle, or former
motor vehicle, stored in the open, which is not currently licensed for use on
the highways of the State of Minnesota and is either:
         (a)   Unusable or inoperable because of lack of, or defects in
component parts; or
         (b)   Unusable or inoperable because of damage from collision,
deterioration, or having been cannibalized; or
         (c)   Beyond repair and therefore not intended for future use as a
motor vehicle; or
         (d)   Being retained on the property for possible use of salvageable
parts or restoration.
      (2)   The term RACING CAR shall include any motor vehicle designed or
intended for operation on a speedway, racetrack, or other facility used or
designed for high-speed contests between vehicles or for timing of speed. The
term STOCK CAR shall include any motor vehicle of standard design and
construction which is modified, adapted, or altered in any manner to increase
its speed or safety, and designed or intended for operation on a speedway,
racetrack, or other facility used for high speed contests between vehicles or
for timing of speed.
   (C)   Screening. This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in
a building and/or kept out of view from any street, road, or alley, and which
does not foster complaint from a resident of the city. Privacy fencing is
permissible.
(Ord. 2011-01 (87.1), passed 1-24-2011)
§ 92.22 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   City officials may apply and enforce any provision of this subchapter
relating to public nuisances within this jurisdiction. Any peace officer or
other designated city official shall have the power to inspect private premises
and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance
of public nuisances. Except in emergency situations of imminent danger to human
life and safety, no peace officer or designated city official will enter
private property for the purpose of inspecting or preventing public nuisances
without the permission of the owner, resident, or other person in control of
the property, unless the officer or person designated has obtained a warrant or
order from a court of competent jurisdiction authorizing entry.
(Ord. 2011-01 (87.1), passed 1-24-2011)
§ 92.23 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Non-emergency procedure. Whenever the peace officer or other
designated official determines that a public nuisance is being maintained or
exists on the premises in the city, the official shall notify in writing the
owner of record or occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the
nuisance be terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall identify the
nature of the nuisance; specify the steps to be taken to abate the nuisance and
the time within which the nuisance is to be abated. If the notice of violation
is not complied with within the time specified, the official shall report that
fact forthwith to the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after
notice to the owner or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that
the condition identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further
order that if the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City
Council, the city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City
Council order and notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an
administrative search and seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (B)   The city may take any and all steps necessary to abate the nuisance of
animals running at large, which could include catch and release, boarding, or
euthanasia.
   (C)   Notice(s). Written notice of the violation; notice of the time, date,
place, and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of the City
Council order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be
served by a peace officer or designated official on the owner of record and/or
the occupant, if other than the owner, of the premises either in person or by
certified or registered mail. For purposes of serving by certified mail, the
addressee is considered to have been served the notice five days after the date
appearing on the certificate of mailing. If the premise is not occupied, the
owner of record is unknown, or if the owner of record or occupant refuses to
accept notice, notice of the violation shall be served by positing it on the
premises.
   (D)   Appeal.
      (1)   The property owner or occupant may appeal said notice to the City
Council provided that any appeal must be submitted in writing to the City of
Goodview not later than ten days following receipt of the notice.
      (2)   If the property owner or occupant requests an appeal in compliance
with the provisions of this section, a hearing shall be held before the City
Council. Following said hearing, the City Council shall by resolution determine
whether a nuisance is evident. Upon the finding of a nuisance, the City Council
shall order that the cited conditions be removed, stored, or eliminated within
ten days.
      (3)   If an appeal to the City Council’s order is not made to the
District Court within 10 days following the City Council’s decision and the
property owner or occupant has not brought the property into compliance as
ordered, the city shall initiate action to abate the nuisance.
   (E)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the procedure and notice requirements
as set forth in divisions (A) through (D) of this section will permit a
continuing nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health, safety, or welfare,
the City Administrator or his or her designated representative may order
summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with summary
enforcement, the peace officer or other designated official shall determine
that a public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city
and that delay in abatement will unreasonably endanger public health, safety,
or welfare. The officer or designated official shall notify in writing the
occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance, whether public
health, safety, or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in
abatement required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A) of this
section and may order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If
the nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated, the City Administrator
may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (F)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition that
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (G)   Unlawful parties or gatherings. When law enforcement determines that a
gathering is creating such a noise disturbance as prohibited under § 92.18(W),
the officer may order all persons present, other than the owner or occupant of
the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disburse immediately. No
person shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by law enforcement.
Every owner or occupant of such premises who has knowledge of the disturbance
shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance is stopped.
   (H)   Judicial remedy. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from
seeking a judicial remedy when no other adequate administrative remedy exists.
The City Attorney is empowered and directed, in addition to other remedies
provided by law, and in the name of the city, to institute appropriate action
or proceedings to restrain and abate a public nuisance.
(Ord. 2011-01 (87.1), passed 1-24-2011)
§ 92.24 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of the premises on which a nuisance has
been abated by the city, or a person who has caused a public nuisance on
property not owned by that person, shall be personally liable for the cost to
the city of the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work
has been completed and the cost determined, the city administrator or other
city official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner.
Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the Office of the
City Administrator.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, the city administrator shall, on or before
September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the total unpaid
charges along with all other such charges as well as other charges for current
services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate lot or
parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council may then spread
the charges against the property under that statute and any other pertinent
statutes for certification to the county auditor and collection along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten,
as the City Council may determine in each case.
(Ord. 2011-01 (87.1), passed 1-24-2011)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall fail, neglect or refuse to comply with the
provisions of the individual notice, as set out in §
92.01, delivered or sent to him or her or shall resist or obstruct the City
Weed Inspector or person or persons hired by him or her to cut and remove weeds
and/or grass, brush and rank vegetation, shall upon conviction thereof, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding
90 days.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §
92.02(K) and (L) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
according to law.
   (D)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this §§
92.15 through
92.24 is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to
exceed$1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, plus the costs
of prosecution in either case.
(Ord. 47, passed 7-21-1969; Ord. 76, passed 2-3-1997; Ord. 87, passed 3-20-
2006; Ord. 2011-01 (87.1), passed 1-24-2011)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PROTECTION; PREVENTION
Section
   
93.01   Fire Code adopted
   
93.02   Open fires; open burning
   
93.03   Outdoor wood furnaces, stoves, and other similar detached heating
facilities prohibited
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 FIRE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Uniform Fire Code.
      (1)   Adoption of code. The State Uniform Fire Code, one copy of which
has been marked as the official copy and which is on file in the office of the
City Administrator, is hereby adopted as the Fire Code for the city for the
purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire or explosion, except the portions as are modified or amended
by division (G) below.
      (2)   Applicable provision of the Code. Every provision contained in this
Code, except as modified or amended by this section, is hereby adopted and made
a part of this section as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Enforcement Officer. The Chief of the Fire Department serving the
city, or his or her representative, authorized by him or her, shall enforce the
provisions of this section.
      (2)   Inspectors. The Chief of the Fire Department may detail the members
of the Fire Department as inspectors as shall from time to time be necessary.
         (a)   The Chief may recommend the appointment of technical inspectors,
who, when so authorized, shall be selected through an examination to determine
their fitness for the position.
         (b)   The examination shall be open to all members of the Fire
Department and appointments made after examination shall be for an indefinite
term with removal only for cause.
   (C)   Definitions.
      CORPORATION COUNSEL. Wherever the term CORPORATION COUNSEL is used in the
State Uniform Fire Code, it shall be held to mean the Attorney for the City of
Goodview.
      JURISDICTION. Wherever the word JURISDICTION is used in the State Uniform
Fire Code, it shall be held to mean the City of Goodview.
   (D)   Establishment of limits of districts in which storage of flammable or
combustible liquids in outside above ground tanks is to be prohibited.
      (1)   Limits of districts. The limits referred to in § 15.201 of the
State Uniform Fire Code in which storage of flammable or combustible liquids in
outside above ground tanks is prohibited are hereby established as any D-l, D-
2, D-3 Dwelling Districts, any C-1 Commercial District, any C-1R Commercial
Restricted District and any MH Mobile Home Zoning District, as defined in and
pursuant to
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   New bulk plants. The limits referred to § 15.601 of the State
Uniform Fire Code, in which new bulk plants for flammable or combustible
liquids are prohibited are hereby established to be D-l, D-2, D-3 Dwelling
Districts, C-1 Commercial Districts, C-1R Commercial Restricted District and MH
Mobile Home Zoning Districts, as defined in pursuant to
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
   (E)   Establishment of limits in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum
gases is restricted. The limits referred to in § 20.105(a) of the State Uniform
Fire Code, in which bulk storage of liquefied petroleum gas is restricted, are
hereby established to be D-l, D-2, D-3 Dwelling Districts, C-1 Commercial
Districts, C-1R Commercial Restricted Districts and MH Mobile Home Zoning
Districts, as defined in and pursuant to
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
   (F)   Establishment of limits of districts in which storage of explosives
and blasting agents is to be prohibited. The limits referred to in § 11.106(b)
of the State Uniform Fire Code, in which storage of explosives; blasting agents
is prohibited, are hereby established to be all D-l, D-2, D-3 Dwelling
Districts, C-1 and C-1R Commercial and Commercial Restricted Districts and MH
Mobile Home Zoning Districts, as defined in and pursuant to
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
   (G)   Amendments made in the State Uniform Fire Code. The State Uniform Fire
Code is amended and changed in the following respects:
      (d)   Section 13.202, Removal is amended by adding as follows: However,
this provision shall not pertain to any personnel of the city who may from time
to time use such hydrants in performance of their duties.
   (H)   Appeals.
      (1)   Appeals procedure. Whenever the Chief shall disapprove an
application or refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that
the provisions of the Code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of
the Code have been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted the applicant may appeal
from the decision of the Chief to the City Council within 30 days from the date
of the decision appealed.
      (2)   Time for acting. Upon receipt of the appeal, the City Council shall
render a decision within 30 days thereon and the finding shall be final on the
part of the city.
   (I)   New materials, processes or occupancies which may require permits.
      (1)   Committee. The Building Inspector, Zoning Administrator, City
Administrator, Fire Department Captain and Chief shall act as a committee to
determine and specify, after giving affected persons an opportunity to be
heard, any new materials, processes or occupancies, which shall require
permits, in addition to those now enumerated in the Code.
      (2)   Information. The Chief shall post any list at the administration
office of the city, distribute copies thereof to all affected persons, file one
copy with the Administrator of the city.
   (J)   Effective date. This section becomes effective from and after its
passage and publication. The ordinance codified herein was published on 5-23-
1978.
(Ord. 59, passed 5-15-1978) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 OPEN FIRES; OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall cause, suffer, permit or allow an open fire or open
burning as defined herein upon real property under his or her control without a
permit secured from the City Fire Warden, who shall be the Chief of the City
Fire Department, except as further set out herein or in accordance with M.S. §§
88.16 through 88.195, as may be amended from time to time, which are hereby
adopted by reference pursuant to M.S. § 471.62, as may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   OPEN FIRE or OPEN BURNING is defined as a fire burning in matter,
whether concentrated or dispersed, which is not contained within a fully
enclosed firebox, structure or vehicle and from which the products of
combustion are emitted directly to the open atmosphere without passing through
a stack, duct or chimney.
   (C)   Fires in an outdoor fireplace or fires used exclusively for cooking,
warmth or a recreational purpose are not prohibited by this section. Outdoor
fireplaces, barbecue appliances or fires may not however be used for the
burning of litter, refuse, garbage, leaves or paper. The fires may not exceed a
diameter of three feet and a height of two feet. All fires shall never be left
unattended and there shall be a means of immediate extinguishment (i.e., garden
hose, fire extinguisher and the like) readily available.
   (D)   Fires within a ring composed of noncombustible materials (i.e.,
concrete, metal and the like) and not housed in an outdoor fireplace or
barbecue appliance shall not be closer than 50 feet from any combustible
structure. The fires within 50 feet shall have a protective spark arresting
screen across the entire top of the ring and shall follow the distance
regulations as set forth in division (E) below.
   (E)   The use of commercially manufactured portable wood burning appliances
shall be allowed provided the appliance is equipped with a spark arresting
screen and cover. The appliance must be located a minimum distance of 15 feet
from any structure, occupied or unoccupied. Only unfinished wood shall be
burned in the appliances.
   (F)   Burning shall be done in a manner so that dense smoke and noxious
fumes are not created that would cause a nuisance to neighboring properties.
   (G)   Charcoal burners and other open-flame devices shall not be operated on
combustible balconies or within ten feet of combustible structures.
   (H)   Exceptions to division (G) above:
      (1)   One- and two-family dwellings; and
      (2)   Where buildings, balconies and decks are protected by an automatic
sprinkler system.
   (I)   This section shall be in full force and affect from and after its
passage and publication in the official newspaper of the city. The ordinance
codified herein was published on 7-10-2008.
(Ord. 52.05, passed 7-7-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 OUTDOOR WOOD FURNACES, STOVES, AND OTHER SIMILAR DETACHED HEATING
FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to establish and impose
restrictions upon the construction and operation of devices as defined in
division (B) below within the limits of the city for the purpose of securing
and promoting the public health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and
prosperity of the city and its inhabitants.
   (B)   Definition.
      WOOD FURNACES, STOVES, or any other similar DETACHED HEATING FACILITY is
defined as, but is not limited to, any device, appliance, equipment, apparatus
or structure that is a free standing outside device designed to burn wood, wood
pellets, or other combustible material. These devices shall have a primary
intended use to provide heat to any associated structure.
   (C)   Regulation. No device as defined by division (B) above shall be
constructed and/or operated in the city, except as provided herein. This
section shall not restrict the continued use of such devices that are
operational as of the date of publication of this section.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall take effect from and after its
passage by the City Council and its publication in the official newspaper of
the city.
(Ord. 93, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who shall violate §
93.01, or who shall violate or fail to comply with any order made thereunder,
or who shall build in violation of any detailed statement of specifications or
plans submitted and approved thereunder, or any certificate or permit issued
thereunder, and from which no appeal has been taken, or who shall fail to
comply with the order as affirmed or modified by the City Council or by a court
of competent jurisdiction, within time fixed herein, shall severally for each
and every violation and noncompliance respectively be guilty of a misdemeanor.
The imposition of one penalty for any violation shall not excuse the violation
or permit it to continue; and all persons shall be required to correct or
remedy the violations or defects within a reasonable time, and when not
otherwise specified each day that prohibited conditions are maintained shall
constitute a separate offense.
      (2)   The application of the penalty in division (B)(1) above shall not
be held to preclude the enforced removal of prohibited conditions.
   (C)   Violation of §
93.02 is a misdemeanor and is punishable within the guidelines of those
offenses (see Ord. 53.01).
   (D)   Failure to comply with the provisions of §
93.03 shall subject the violator to a misdemeanor charge, and shall be punished
by a fine of not to exceed $1,000, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a
period not to exceed 90 days, or both.
(Ord. 59, passed 5-15-1978; Ord. 52.05, passed 7-7-2008; Ord. 93, passed 6-7-
2010)
CHAPTER 94: UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Discovery of property
   
94.04   Disposition of unclaimed property
   
94.05   Perishable, dangerous or illegal substances
   
94.06   Registry
   
94.07   Property held as evidence
   
94.08   Motor vehicles
   
94.09   Inapplicability
   
94.10   Published date
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the lawful custody and
orderly disposition of unclaimed property within the city, hereafter referred
to as the “city”.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DATE ON WHICH PERSONAL PROPERTY COMES INTO THE POSSESSION OF THE CITY. The
date upon which the city acquires actual physical possession or exercises
dominion and control over the personal property.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any personal property stolen and recovered, abandoned,
confiscated or otherwise lawfully acquired by the city including, but not
limited to, bicycles, automobiles, or parts thereof, or money.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.03 DISCOVERY OF PROPERTY.
   When an employee of the city obtains possession of property in or upon any
public street, walk, building or from private property upon being called or
directed to pick the property up, which property appears to be lost, stolen or
abandoned, he or she shall deliver the same to the Chief of Police immediately
together with a written statement including the following information:
   (A)   The time and place of the finding; and
   (B)   The name and address of the owner of the property or person believed
to be the owner, if known, if not known, a statement to the effect shall be
made.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.04 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Generally. Any unclaimed personal property coming into possession of
the city may be disposed of by the city as follows.
      (1)   Upon being held by the city and unclaimed by the owner thereof for
a period of not less than 60 days, the property shall be sold by the city at
public auction or by sale, in either case to the highest bidder. Notice of the
sale or public auction shall be published in the official newspaper of the city
at least ten days prior to the date of the sale or public auction and in the
case of disposition by sale, shall specify the date, time and place for final
submission of bids. In lieu of public auction or sale, any of the unclaimed
property may be appropriated to the use of the city upon direction of the City
Council.
      (2)   The public auction or sale as above described on unclaimed property
as above described shall be the responsibility and shall be conducted by the
Chief of Police at times which he or she may deem appropriate and expedient
dependant upon the amount and value of the property to be sold.
      (3)   Should the unclaimed property be lost currency or coin of value no
greater than the face amount, then if unclaimed for the period so specified
herein, the coin and currency shall be returned to the finder.
   (B)   Reports, property sold. Upon completion of any sale under division (C)
below, the Chief of Police shall make a report thereof to the City
Administrator which shall consist of the following information:
      (1)   A copy of the published notice of auction or sale;
      (2)   A list of the property sold, the amount for which each item was
sold and to whom it was sold;
      (3)   A list of property not sold; and
      (4)   A statement of expenses of the auction or sale.
   (C)   Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of any auction or sale shall be
applied in payment of expenses of the auction or sale and all other costs
incurred in retaining and storage of the property. The balance of proceeds
remaining from the sale shall be paid into the General Fund of the city.
   (D)   Unsold articles disposition. In the event that any property is not
sold, the City Council shall then make the disposition of the unsold articles
as it deems in the best interest of the city.
   (E)   Owner’s rights after sale. If the owner of property sold at auction or
sale is found within six months following the date of sale or auction, he or
she shall have the right to the proceeds of the sale or auction for that
article upon satisfactory proof to the Chief of Police that he or she is the
unquestionable legal owner of the property.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.05 PERISHABLE, DANGEROUS OR ILLEGAL SUBSTANCES.
   (A)   Any unclaimed personal property which comes into the custody or
possession of the city and which is perishable or which loses the greater part
of its value by being retained during the 60-day period required by §
94.04, which is determined to be dangerous, or which is classified as an
illegal substance, may be disposed of at the discretion of the Chief of Police
and in the manner deemed by him or her to be most appropriate.
   (B)   A record of all pertinent facts of the perishable, dangerous or
illegal substance, disposal shall be prepared by the Chief and filed with the
City Administrator.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.06 REGISTRY.
   The Chief of Police shall maintain a complete file of lost, stolen or
abandoned property containing at least the following information:
   (A)   A complete description of the property including serial number, model
number, make and the like, if there be any;
   (B)   Finder of the property;
   (C)   The time and place of finding;
   (D)   The disposition of the property; and
   (E)   Any other pertinent information as deemed by the Chief of Police.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.07 PROPERTY HELD AS EVIDENCE.
   When any officer shall seize any property or thing, the same shall be safely
kept by direction of the court so long as may be necessary for the purpose of
being produced as evidence on any trial, and then the property or things shall,
unless otherwise subject to lawful detention, be returned to the owner thereof,
or to another person as may be entitled to the possession of the same, and the
other things so seized may be disposed of in accordance with the direction of
the courts. Any money found or seized from illegal gambling shall be paid to
the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.08 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Generally. Whenever an abandoned, stolen, or confiscated motor vehicle
is taken into custody, the Chief of Police shall give notice of the taking
within ten days of the taking. The notice shall set forth the date and place of
the taking; the year, make, model and serial number of the vehicle; place where
the vehicle is being held; shall inform the owner or any lien holders of their
right to reclaim the vehicle, and that failure of the owner or lienholders to
exercise their right to reclaim the vehicle shall be deemed a waiver by them of
all right, title and interest in the vehicle and a consent to the sale or
public auction of the vehicle.
   (B)   Notice. The notice shall be sent by certified mail to the registered
owner, if any be known, and to all identifiable lienholders of record. If it is
impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and address of
the registered owner and all lienholders, the notice as described in division
(A) above shall be published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the
area where the vehicle was abandoned.
   (C)   Owner’s rights. The owner or any lienholder of an abandoned, stolen or
confiscated motor vehicle shall have a right to reclaim the vehicle from the
city, upon payment of all costs of notification, towing, storage changes
resulting from taking the vehicle into custody, within 15 days after the date
of the notice required in division (A) above.
   (D)   Vehicle not claimed. Any motor vehicle taken into custody and not
reclaimed as provided in this section shall be sold at public auction or sale
as provided by this chapter.
   (E)   Incomplete vehicles. When an abandoned motor vehicle is more than
seven model years old, is lacking vital component parts and does not display a
license plate currently valid, it shall immediately be eligible for sale or
public auction and shall not be subject to the notification requirements of
this section.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.09 INAPPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to domestic animals.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.10 PUBLISHED DATE.
   The ordinance codified herein was published on 11-15-1979.
(Ord. 64, passed 11-5-1979)
CHAPTER 95: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
95.01   City parks and biking/walking paths
   
95.02   Park curfew
   
95.03   Lake Goodview usage
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 CITY PARKS AND BIKING/WALKING PATHS.
   (A)   Animals in public parks.
      (1)   Prohibition. No person shall permit any animal owned by them or
under their custody or control to be in a public park except as set forth
below. The Police K-9 Unit dog is exempt from the provisions of this section.
The above restriction shall not prohibit persons from walking their animals on
the city biking/walking paths so long as the animals are on a leash and the
owners comply with division (2) below.
      (2)   Damage to property. No person owning or having the custody or
control of an animal shall permit the animal to damage any lawn, garden or
other park property, or to urinate or defecate on park property. It shall be
the duty of each person owning or having the custody or control of an animal to
remove any feces left by the animal on any sidewalk, gutter, street, park land
or other public property, or on any public area, and to dispose of the feces in
a sanitary manner.
      (3)   Enforcement of regulations. The provisions of this section shall be
enforced by the Police Department and by such other employees of the city as
may be designated by the City Administrator. The City Administrator may appoint
a person or persons other than a city employee to pick up an animal running at
large and to deliver the animal to a place designated by the City Administrator
as more fully set forth in Ord. 26 (see §§
90.01 through
90.18).
   (B)   Firearms, fireworks and open fires.
      (1)   Prohibition. No person shall possess or discharge firearms,
firecrackers, rockets or similar projectiles or set off any fireworks within
the city parks; provided, that this section shall not be construed as
prohibiting the discharge of firearms within the city by any city police
officer, by any other duly authorized law officer, when necessary in the
performance of his or her official duty, or by members of any military company
acting by command of any superior officer. This section shall also not be
construed as prohibiting discharge of fireworks by the city or its designated
representative as part of any holiday or special event celebrations.
      (2)   Possession. Possession of fireworks, firecrackers, rockets or other
projectiles while within the city parks shall be prima facie evidence of intent
to discharge and shall be a violation of this section.
      (3)   Open fires. No person shall start or maintain an open fire on any
public park land. This section shall not be construed to prohibit either the
use of charcoal for cooking in designated receptacles or the use of other
devices that contain gas used for cooking.
   (C)   Littering and disposal of refuse.
      (1)   No person shall litter or spill or permit littering or spillage of
paper, plastic, glass, metal or any other materials on any public streets,
public parks or other public property of the city.
      (2)   No person shall place refuse in a city-owned container placed on
public parks or other public property if the refuse is produced on other than a
public park or other public property.
   (D)   Operating or parking motor vehicles on biking/walking paths and other
public park land.
      (1)   No person shall operate or park a motor vehicle, as hereinafter
defined, upon any biking/walking path, grassed areas or anywhere else on public
parks or other public property of the city, except on a street, highway,
service drive, alley or parking lot or other public way or area authorized by
the Council, on which public way or area there are signs indicating that
operating or parking is permitted.
      (2)   It shall be permissible to operate a motor vehicle within the
pavilion area solely for the purpose of loading and unloading food and
equipment when the operator is a part of a group or organization that has
rented the pavilion for a special occasion.
      (3)   MOTOR VEHICLE shall mean every vehicle which is self-propelled.
VEHICLE shall mean those devices described in M.S. § 169.01 Subd. 2, as may be
amended from time to time. MOTOR VEHICLES used by city employees or others
retained by the city to perform repairs and maintenance of public land shall be
exempted from this section.
      (4)   No motor vehicle may be parked on public park land between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (5)   No motor vehicle capable of carrying more than one ton shall be
operated or parked anywhere within the confines of any public park.
      (6)   No person shall ride a bike or traverse by means of skateboards,
roller blades or roller skates within the confines of any public park building
or pavilion.
      (7)   Any motor vehicle operated, parked or left unattended in violation
of this section may be towed to a public garage or other storage facility at
the driver’s or owner’s expense. Any motor vehicle towed pursuant to this
section shall be released to the owner upon payment of any reasonable charges
for towing and storage of the motor vehicle, and after obtaining a release from
the Police Department.
   (E)   Restriction on activities.
      (1)   No person shall be within the confines of any public park between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
      (2)   No person shall practice or play any game utilizing golf balls or
golf equipment on any public park land or other public property other than a
designated golf course.
      (3)   No glass shall be allowed in the sand beach area of LaCanne Park,
and/or the playground area of any city park.
      (4)   No alcohol shall be possessed or consumed in the sand beach area of
LaCanne Park, and/or the playground area of any city park.
      (5)   No person shall consume by smoking any tobacco or tobacco product
in the sand beach area of LaCanne Park, and/or the playground area of any city
park. For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply:
         (a)   SMOKE or SMOKING.
            (i)   Inhaling, exhaling, or burning any tobacco or tobacco product
as defined in §
110.02 that is intended for inhalation.
            (ii)   Carrying any lighted, heated, or activated tobacco or
tobacco product as defined in §
110.02 that is intended for inhalation.
            (iii)   The use of an electronic delivery device used to deliver
any aerosolized or vaporized substance to the person inhaling from the device
as further defined in M.S. § 609.685.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage and its publication in an official newspaper of the city.
(Ord. 88.1, passed 7-12-2010; Ord. 2023-03, passed --) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 PARK CURFEW.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be within the boundaries of any
city park between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following day.
This prohibition shall not apply during any event or function which is
sponsored by the city, nor when the city has issued a permit for a function or
event which activity extends into the closing time set forth above.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage and its publication once in the official newspaper of the city.
(Ord. 73, passed 7-22-1991) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 LAKE GOODVIEW USAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      MOTORBOAT. A watercraft propelled in any manner by machinery, including
watercraft temporarily equipped with detachable motors.
      PERSONAL WATERCRAFT. A motorboat that:
         (a)   Is powered by an inboard motor powering a water jet pump or by
an outboard or propeller-driven motor; and
         (b)   Is designed to be operated by a person or persons sitting,
standing or kneeling on the craft, rather than in the conventional manner of
sitting or standing inside a motorboat.
      SLOW-NO WAKE. Operation of a watercraft at the slowest possible speed
necessary to maintain steerage, but in no case greater than five mph.
      WATERCRAFT. Any contrivance used or designed for navigation on water.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall operate a watercraft at greater than a slow-no
wake speed upon the lake.
      (2)   The use of internal combustion engines on watercraft is prohibited;
however, the engines may remain attached to watercraft used on the lake.
      (3)   Swimming is permitted only in those areas designated for the use or
from those private lands abutting the lake as permitted by the property owner.
      (4)   No overnight camping is permitted in park areas.
      (5)   Littering or the disposal of any items rendered useless for the
purpose originally intended upon any park land or in the lake is prohibited.
      (6)   The use of dark houses and fish houses upon the lake shall be in
conformity with M.S. § 97C.355, as may be amended from time to time, which is
hereby adopted by reference and incorporated in this section as completely as
if set out in full herein.
      (7)   The operation of watercraft upon the lake shall be in conformity
with M.S. Ch. 86B, as may be amended from time to time, and all rules
promulgated hereunder, which are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
in this ordinance as completely as if set out in full herein.
      (8)   No snowmobiles are permitted to operate upon the lake between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (9)   The use of set lines or the commercial netting of fish is
prohibited except for the harvesting of minnows.
      (10)   Authorized resource management, emergency and enforcement
personnel when acting in the performance of their duties, shall be exempt from
the provisions of this section.
      (11)   The transport of exotic species shall be governed by M.S. Ch.
84D.10, as may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rule part 6216.0500
which chapter and rule are hereby adopted by reference and incorporated in this
section as completely as if set out in full herein.
   (C)   Primary enforcement of this section shall rest with, but is not
limited to licensed peace officers of the Police Department and the County
Sheriff’s Department.
   (D)   The city shall inform the riparian residents and place signs at all
public access points to the lake outlining these restrictions.
(Ord. 77, passed 6-19-2000)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Failure to comply with the provisions of §
95.01 shall subject the violator to a misdemeanor charge, and shall be punished
by a fine not to exceed $1,000, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a
period not to exceed 90 days, or both.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate §
95.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
95.01(E) shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 73, passed 7-22-1991; Ord. 88.1, passed 7-12-2010; Ord. 2023-03, passed -
-)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS
      
111.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
112.   JUNK YARDS AND DEALERS
      
113.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
115.   AMUSEMENTS
      
116.   FOOD TRUCKS
CHAPTER 110: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions and interpretations
   
110.03   License
   
110.04   Fees
   
110.05   Basis for license denial
   
110.06   Prohibited sales
   
110.07   Responsibility
   
110.08   Compliance checks and inspections
   
110.09   Other illegal acts
   
110.10   Violations
   
110.11   Exceptions and defense
   
110.12   Amendments
   
110.13   Effective date
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   Because the city recognizes that many persons under the age of 18 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco related devices, and the sales, possession and use are violations of
both state and federal laws; and because studies have shown that most smokers
begin smoking before they have reached the age of 18 years and that those
persons who reach the age of 18 years without having started smoking are
significantly less likely to begin smoking; and because smoking has been shown
to be the cause of several serious health problems which subsequently place a
financial burden on all levels of government; this chapter shall be intended to
regulate the sale, possession and use of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco
related devices for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing laws, to
protect minors against the serious effects associated with the illegal use of
tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices, and to further the
official policy of the state in regards to preventing young people from
starting to smoke, as stated in M.S. § 144.391, as may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 79, passed 2-2-1998)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices
are following and complying with the requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS shall involve the use of minors as authorized by this chapter.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of minors who attempt to purchase
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices for educational, research
and training purposes as authorized by state and federal laws. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of government for the purpose of
enforcing appropriate federal, state or local laws and regulations relating to
tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices.
   COMPLIANCE OFFICERS. City police or reserve officers authorized by the City
Administrator to perform compliance checks.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
products wrapped individually for sale. INDIVIDUALLY WRAPPED TOBACCO AND
TOBACCO PRODUCTS shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs,
single bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other
packaging of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing
more than a single pack or other container as described in this definition
shall not be considered INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED.
   LOOSIES. A single or individually packaged cigarette.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile, trailer or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and
not a fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized
for sales transactions.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco related devices are available for sale to the general public. RETAIL
ESTABLISHMENT shall include, but not be limited to, grocery stores, convenience
stores and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices, without the assistance or
intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s employee. The assistance or
intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco related devices between the customer and the licensee or
employee. SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING shall not include vending machines.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including, but not limited to, cigarettes; cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff; fine
cut or other chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready-rubbed and other smoking tobacco; snuff flowers; cavendish;
shorts; plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos; refuse scraps, clippings,
cuttings and sweepings of tobacco, and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in a manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing or smoking.
   TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling
papers or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used in a
manner which enables the chewing, sniffing or smoking of tobacco or tobacco
products.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related devices, except a device by which an employee must insert the
money in order to operate the machine is not a VENDING MACHINE for the purpose
of this chapter.
(Ord. 79, passed 2-2-1998)
§ 110.03 LICENSE.
   No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related devices without first having obtained a license to do so from
the city.
   (A)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco related devices shall be made on a form provided by the
city. The application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the
applicant’s residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name
of the business for which the license is sought and any additional information
the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed application, it shall be
presented for action at its next regularly scheduled City Council meeting. If
the application is incomplete, it shall be returned to the applicant with
notice of the information necessary to make the application complete.
   (B)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the application,
or it may delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete
any investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If
the City Council shall approve the application, a license shall be issued to
the applicant. If the City Council denies the application, notice of the denial
shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant’s right to
appeal the decision.
   (C)   Term. All licenses shall expire on June 30 next after issuance and
shall then be valid for one calendar year upon reissuance.
   (D)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in the violations and penalties section of
this chapter.
   (E)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the City Council.
   (F)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (G)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premise.
   (H)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days before the expiration of the current
license. The issuance of a license issued under this chapter shall be
considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the applicant and shall not
entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the license.
(Ord. 79, passed 2-2-1998) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
$110.
(Ord. 79, passed 2-2-1998)
§ 110.05 BASIS FOR LICENSE DENIAL.
   (A)   The following shall be a nonexhautive list of grounds for denying the
issuance or renewal of a license under this chapter; however, except as may
otherwise be provided by law, the existence of any particular ground for denial
does not mean that the city must deny the license.
   (B)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this section:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past 24 months of any
violation of a federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products or tobacco related devices;
      (3)   The applicant had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date of
application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information; and/or
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation, from holding a license.
(Ord. 79, passed 2-2-1998)
§ 110.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 18 years;
   (B)   Except as permitted by M.S. § 461.18, Subd. 2, as may be amended from
time to time, sales by means of vending machines;
   (C)   Except as permitted by M.S. § 461.18, Subd. 1(g), as may be amended
from time to time, and the Code of Federal Regulations, sales by means of self-
service merchandising;
   (D)   By means of loosies, as defined herein;
   (E)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process;
   (F)   By any other means, to any other person, on in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision or
other regulation; and
   (G)   Sales by non-licensed individuals or owners or employees of non-
licensed retail establishments.
(Ord. 79, passed 2-2-1998) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco
related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of an item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to bar an employee from being subject to
administrative sanctions under this chapter or other civil, criminal,
administrative or other sanctions under federal, state or local law, ordinance
or regulation.
(Ord. 79, passed 2-2-1998)
§ 110.08 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by local law enforcement
or other authorized city tobacco compliance officers during regular business
hours. Not less than annually compliance checks shall be conducted of licensed
business establishments engaging persons over the age 15, but less than 18,
years under the supervision and direction of local law enforcement officers or
compliance officers. The minors shall have the written consent of their
custodial parent or guardian. Compliance checks shall be conducted under the
direction of the City Administrator or his or her designated representative and
in accordance with policies and procedures as prescribed by the City
Administrator. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit checks
authorized by state or federal law for educational, research or training
purposes, or required for the enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(Ord. 79, passed 2-2-1998)
§ 110.09 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related
devices to any minor.
   (B)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco
related devices. This division shall not apply to minors lawfully involved in a
compliance check.
   (C)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to
smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco
related devices.
   (D)   Illegal procurement.
      (1)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to purchase
or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related devices, and it shall be a violation of this chapter for any
person to purchase or otherwise obtain such items on behalf of a minor. It
shall further be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt to coerce a
minor to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco related devices.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to minors lawfully involved in a
compliance check.
   (E)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false
form of identification, whether the identification is that of another person or
one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to
represent an age older that the actual age of the person.
(Ord. 79, passed 2-2-1998) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.10 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged violator
shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his or her
right to be heard on the allegations.
   (B)   Hearings. If a person accused of violating this chapter so requests, a
hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be published and
provided to the alleged violator.
   (C)   Hearing officer. The City Council shall serve as the hearing officer.
   (D)   Decision. If the hearing officer determines that a violation of this
chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officers reasons for
finding a violation and the sanctions to be imposed under §
110.99, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the
alleged violator. Likewise, if the hearing officer finds that no violation
occurred or finds grounds for not imposing any sanction, the findings shall be
recorded and a copy provided to the alleged violator.
   (E)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officers may,
pursuant to M.S. § 461.12, Subd. 7, as may be amended from time to time, may be
filed and reviewed in the County District Court in the same manner and
procedure as provided for in M.S. § 462.361, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (F)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter. If the city elects to seek misdemeanor prosecution, no
administrative penalty shall be imposed.
   (G)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which violation
occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 79, passed 2-2-1998) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.11 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully recognized
religious, spiritual or cultural ceremony. It shall be an affirmative defense
to any alleged violation of this chapter that the person reasonably relied on
proof of age as described by state law.
(Ord. 79, passed 2-2-1998)
§ 110.12 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this chapter shall comply with the provisions of M.S. Ch. 461,
as may be amended from time to time, providing therefor.
(Ord. 79, passed 2-2-1998)
§ 110.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective on the day following its enactment and
summary publication in the official newspaper of the city.
(Ord. 79, passed 2-2-1998)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Licensees. Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or whose
employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged an administrative
fee of $75 for a first violation of this chapter, $200 for a second violation
at the same licensed premises within a 24-month period; and $250 for a third or
subsequent violation at the same location within a 24-month period. In
addition, after the third violation, the license shall be suspended for not
less than seven days for each violation.
   (B)   Other individuals. Other individuals, other than minors regulated by
division (C) below, found to be in violation of this chapter shall be charged
an administrative fee of $50 in addition to those sanctions imposed upon the
licensee.
   (C)   Minors. Minors found in unlawful possession of, or who unlawfully
purchase or attempt to purchase, tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related
devices, shall be subject to the penalty as prescribed by the hearing officers
from time to time which may include, but is not limited to, a fee, attendance
at tobacco related education classes, diversion programs or community services.
   (D)   Misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from
seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of this chapter.
   (E)   Unlicensed sellers. Individuals selling tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco related devices without first obtaining a license to do so pursuant to
this chapter shall be charged an administrative fee of $200.
(Ord. 79, passed 2-2-1998)
CHAPTER 111: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Intent
   
111.02   Definitions
Franchise Regulations and Conditions
   
111.15   Franchise to install and operate
   
111.16   Franchise required
   
111.17   Term of the franchise
   
111.18   Franchise territory
   
111.19   Federal, state and city jurisdiction
   
111.20   Franchise transfer
   
111.21   City’s right to purchase system
   
111.22   Purchase by city upon expiration or revocation
   
111.23   Emergency use
   
111.24   Geographical coverage
   
111.25   Nonexclusive franchise
   
111.26   Multiple franchises
   
111.27   Franchise applications
   
111.28   Consideration of initial applications
   
111.29   Franchise renewal
   
111.30   Consumer protection and service standards
   
111.31   Rate regulation
   
111.32   Franchise fee
   
111.33   Design and construction requirements
   
111.34   Technical standards
   
111.35   Trimming of trees
   
111.36   Use of grantee facilities
   
111.37   Programming decisions
   
111.38   Indemnification
   
111.39   Insurance
   
111.40   Records required and grantor’s right to inspect
   
111.41   Franchise violation
   
111.42   Force majeure; grantee’s inability to perform
   
111.43   Abandonment or removal of franchise property
   
111.44   Extended operation and continuity of services
   
111.45   Receivership and foreclosure
   
111.46   Rights reserved to grantor
   
111.47   Rights of individuals
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 INTENT.
   (A)   The city, pursuant to applicable laws, is authorized to grant one or
more nonexclusive franchises to construct, operate, maintain and reconstruct
cable television systems within the city limits.
   (B)   The City Council finds that the development of cable television
systems has the potential of having great benefit and impact upon the residents
of the city. Because of the complex and rapidly changing technology associated
with cable television, the City Council further finds that the public
convenience, safety and general welfare can best be served by establishing
regulatory powers which should be vested in the city or persons as the city
shall designate. It is the intent of this chapter and subsequent amendments to
provide for and specify the means to attain the best possible cable television
service to the public and any franchises issued pursuant to this chapter shall
be deemed to include this finding as an integral part thereof.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICABLE LAWS. Any law, statute, charter, ordinance, rule, regulation,
code, license, certificate, franchise, permit, writ, ruling, award, executive
order, directive, requirement, injunction (whether temporary, preliminary or
permanent), judgement, decree or other order issued, executed or entered by any
governmental authority.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Any service tier which includes the retransmission of
local television broadcast signals. BASIC CABLE SERVICE, as defined herein,
shall be consistent with 47 U.S.C. § 543(b)(7).
   CABLE ACT. The Cable Communications Policy Act of 3984, Pub. Law No. 98-549,
98 Stat. 2779 (1984) (codified at 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 through 611 (1982 and Supp.
V 1987)) as amended by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition
Act of 1992, Pub. Law No. 102-385 and the Telecommunications Act of 1996, Pub.
Law No. 104-458 and as the same may, from time to time, be amended.
   CABLE SERVICE.
      (1)   The one-way transmission to subscribers of video programming or
other programming service; and
      (2)   Subscriber interaction, if any, which is required for the selection
or use of the video programming or other programming service.
   CABLE TELEVISION SYSTEM, SYSTEM or CABLE SYSTEM. A facility, consisting of a
set of closed transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception
and control equipment that is designed to provide cable service which includes
video programming and which is provided to multiple subscribers within a
community, but the term does not include:
      (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
one or more television broadcast stations;
      (2)   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public rights-
of-way;
      (3)   A facility of a common earner which is subject, in whole or in
part, to the provisions of 47 U.S.C. §§ 201 through 226, except that the
facility shall be considered a cable system (other than for purposes of 47
U.S.C. § 954) to the extent the facility is used in the transmission of video
programming directly to subscribers; unless the extent of the use is solely to
provide interactive on-demand services;
      (4)   An open video system that complies with § 653 of Title VI of the
Cable Act; or
      (5)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility system.
   CHANNEL or CABLE CHANNEL. A portion of the electromagnetic frequency
spectrum which is used in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a
television channel, as defined by the Federal Communications Commission.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Goodview, Minnesota.
   FRANCHISE. An initial authorization, or renewal thereof, issued by the city,
whether the authorization is designated as a franchise, permit, license,
resolution, contract, certificate, agreement or otherwise, which authorizes the
construction or operation of a cable system.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. A franchise granted pursuant to this chapter containing
the specific provisions of the franchise granted, including references,
specifications, requirements and other related matters.
   FRANCHISE FEE. Any tax, fee or assessment of any kind imposed by the city or
any other governmental authority on a grantee or cable subscriber, or both,
solely because of their status as such. The term FRANCHISE FEE does not
include:
      (1)   Any tax, fee or assessment or general applicability (including any
tax, fee or assessment imposed on both utilities and cable operators or their
services, but not including, a tax, fee or assessment which is unduly
discriminatory against cable operators or cable subscribers);
      (2)   Capital costs which are required by the franchise agreement to be
incurred by the grantee for PEG access facilities;
      (3)   Requirements or charges incidental to the awarding or enforcing of
the franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance, indemnification, penalties or liquidated damages; or
      (4)   Any fee imposed under U.S.C. Title 17.
   GOVERNMENTAL AUTHORITY. Any court or other federal, state, county, municipal
or other governmental department, commission, board, agency or instrumentality.
   GRANTEE. Any person receiving a franchise pursuant to this chapter and its
agents, employees, officers, designees or any lawful successor, transferee or
assignee.
   GRANTOR or CITY. The City of Goodview, Minnesota, as represented by the
Council or any delegate acting within the scope of its jurisdiction. The City
Administrator shall be responsible for the continuing administration of the
franchise.
   GROSS REVENUES. All revenue derived by the grantee arising from or
attributable to the sale or exchange of cable service by the grantee within the
city from the operation of its cable system including, but not limited to,
monthly fees charged to subscribers, for basic cable service; monthly fees
charged to subscribers for any optional service; monthly fees charged to
subscribers for any tier of service other than basic cable service;
installation, disconnection and reconnection fees; leased channel fee: fees or
payments received from programmers; converter rentals or sales; production
equipment and personnel fees; local advertising revenues; revenues from home
shopping channels. GROSS REVENUES shall be the basis for computing the
franchise fees imposed pursuant hereto. There shall be no deductions from gross
revenues except for uncollected amounts unless specifically authorized herein.
   INITIAL SERVICE AREA. The area of the city which will receive cable service
initially, as set forth in any franchise agreement.
   INSTALLATION. The connection of the system to subscribers’ terminals and the
provision of cable service.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS. Those hours during which most similar businesses in
the city are open to serve customers. In all cases, NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS must
include some evening hours at least one night per week and/or some weekend
hours.
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS. Those service conditions which are within the
control of the grantee. Those conditions which are not within the control of
the grantee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages and severe or unusual
weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily within the control of
the grantee include, but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view
events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods and maintenance
or upgrade of the system.
   PERSON. Any individual or any association, firm, general partnership,
limited partnership, joint stock company, joint venture, trust, corporation,
limited liability company or other legally recognized entity, private or
public, whether for-profit or not-for-profit.
   PUBLIC EDUCATIONAL OR GOVERNMENT ACCESS FACILITIES or PEG ACCESS FACILITIES.
      (1)   Channel capacity designated for non-commercial public, educational
or governmental use; and
      (2)   Facilities and equipment for the use of the channel capacity.
   SERVICE AREA or FRANCHISE AREA. The entire incorporated area within the city
as it is now constituted or may, in the future, be constituted, unless
otherwise specified in the franchise agreement.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION. The loss of picture or sound on one or more cable
channels.
   STATE. The State of Minnesota.
   STREET. Each of the following which have been dedicated to the public or are
hereafter dedicated to the public and maintained under public authority or by
other and locales within the city limits: streets, roadways, highways, avenues,
lanes, alleys, sidewalks, easements, rights-of-way and similar public property
and areas that the grantor shall permit to be included within the definition of
street from time to time.
   SUBSCRIBER. Any person who or which lawfully elects to subscribe to, for any
purpose, a cable service provided by the grantee by means of or in connection
with the cable system.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
FRANCHISE REGULATIONS AND CONDITIONS
§ 111.15 FRANCHISE TO INSTALL AND OPERATE.
   (A)   A franchise granted by the city under the provisions of this chapter
shall encompass the following purposes:
      (1)   To engage in the business of providing cable service to subscribers
within the service area;
      (2)   To erect, install, construct, repair, rebuild, reconstruct,
replace, maintain and retain cables, lines, related electronic equipment,
supporting structures, appurtenances and other property in connection with the
operation of a cable system in, on, over, under, upon, along and across streets
within the service area;
      (3)   To maintain and operate the franchise properties for the
origination, reception, transmission, amplification and distribution of
television and radio signals for the delivery of cable services; and
      (4)   To set forth the obligations of a grantee under the franchise
agreement.
   (B)   Nothing contained in this chapter relieves a person from liability
arising out of failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid injuring the
grantee’s facilities while performing work connected with grading, regarding or
changing the line of a street or public place or with the construction or
reconstruction of a sewer or water system.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.16 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the city, to
construct, install or operate a cable television system in the city in, on,
over, under, upon, along or across any street without a franchise properly
granted pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   To the extent allowed under applicable laws, the city reserves the
right to permit certain persons to maintain facilities in, on, over, under,
upon, along or across any streets without a franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter when the facilities are designed solely for internal communications and
where no fees or other compensation is charged nor is providing cable service
to other persons.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.17 TERM OF THE FRANCHISE.
   (A)   A franchise granted hereunder shall be for the term established in the
franchise agreement and shall not exceed 15 years.
   (B)   A franchise granted hereunder may be renewed upon application by the
grantee pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and applicable laws.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.18 FRANCHISE TERRITORY.
   Any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall be valid within the
service area.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.19 FEDERAL, STATE AND CITY JURISDICTION.
   (A)   This chapter shall be construed in a manner consistent with applicable
laws.
   (B)   In the event that the state or federal government discontinues
preemption in any area of cable communications over which it currently
exercises jurisdiction in a manner as to expand rather than limit municipal
regulatory authority, the grantor may, if it so elected, adopt rules and
regulations in accordance with its police powers in such areas to the extent
permitted by applicable laws.
   (C)   This chapter shall apply to all franchises granted or renewed after
the effective date of this chapter. This chapter shall further apply to the
extent permitted by applicable laws to all existing franchises granted prior to
the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   The rights of all grantees are subject to the policing powers of the
city to adopt and enforce ordinances necessary to the health, safety and
welfare of the public. All grantees shall comply with all applicable laws
enacted by the city pursuant to that power.
   (E)   No grantee shall be relieved of its obligation to comply with any of
the provisions of this chapter or any franchise granted pursuant to this
chapter by reason of any failure of the city to enforce prompt compliance.
   (F)   This chapter and any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall
be construed and enforced in accordance with the substantive laws of the city,
the state and applicable federal laws, including the Cable Act.
   (G)   This chapter complies with the state’s franchise standards contained
in M.S. § 238.084, as may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The grantee and the city shall conform to state laws and rules
regarding cable communications not later than one year after they become
effective, unless otherwise staled, and shall conform to federal laws and
regulations regarding cable communications as they become effective.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.20 FRANCHISE TRANSFER.
   (A)   The grantee shall not voluntarily or involuntarily, by operation of
law or otherwise, sell, assign, transfer, lease, sublet or otherwise dispose
of, the franchise and/or cable system or any of the rights or privileges
granted by the franchise, without the prior written consent of the Council and
then only upon the terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Council in
accordance with applicable laws, which consent shall not be unreasonably denied
or delayed. Any attempt to sell, assign, transfer, lease, sublet or otherwise
dispose of the franchise and/or cable system without the prior written consent
of the Council shall be null and void and shall be grounds for termination of
the franchise pursuant hereto and the applicable provisions of any franchise
agreement.
   (B)   (1)   Without limiting the nature of the events requiring the
Council’s approval under this section, the following events shall be deemed to
be a sale, assignment or other transfer of the franchise and/or cable system
requiring compliance with this section:
         (a)   The sale, assignment or other transfer of all or a majority of
the grantee’s assets or the assets comprising the cable system to any person so
as to create a new controlling interest;
         (b)   The consolidation of the grantee or any of its parents with any
other person so as to create a new controlling interest;
         (c)   The creation of a subsidiary corporation or other entity which
owns or operates the cable system;
         (d)   The sale, assignment or other transfer of capital stock or
partnership, membership or other equity interests in grantee or any of its
parents by one or more of its existing shareholders, partners, members or other
equity owners so as to create a new controlling interest in grantee;
         (e)   The issuance of additional capital stock or partnership,
membership or other equity interest by grantee or any of its parents, so as to
create a new controlling interest in grantee; and
         (f)   The entry by the grantee into an agreement with respect to the
management or operation of the grantee, any of grantee’s parents and/or the
system or the subsequent amendment thereof.
      (2)   The term CONTROLLING INTEREST, as used herein, is not limited to
majority equity ownership of the grantee, but also includes actual working
control over the grantee and/or the system in whatever manner exercised.
   (C)   In the case of any sale or transfer of ownership of any franchise and/
or cable system the city shall have 120 days to act upon any request for
approval of the sale or transfer that contains or is accompanied by information
as is required in this chapter and applicable laws and such other reasonable
information as the city, in its sole discretion, may request. If the city fails
to render a final decision on the request within 120 days from receipt by the
city of all required information, the request shall be deemed granted unless
the requesting party and the city agree to an extension of time.
   (D)   The grantee shall notify grantor in writing of any foreclosure or any
other judicial sale of all or a substantial part of the property and assets
comprising the cable system of the grantee or upon the termination of any lease
or interest covering all or a substantial part of the properly and assets. The
notification shall be considered by grantor as notice that a change in control
or ownership of the franchise has taken place and the provisions under this
section governing the consent of grantor to the change in control or ownership
shall apply.
   (E)   For the purpose of determining whether it shall consent to the change,
transfer or acquisition of control, the grantor may inquire into the
qualifications of the prospective transferee or controlling party, and the
grantee shall assist the grantor in any inquiry. In seeking grantor’s consent
to any change of ownership or control, the grantee shall have the
responsibility of ensuring that the transferee completes an application which
application shall include the information required under this chapter and
applicable laws. An application, acceptable to the city, shall be submitted to
grantor not less than 120 days prior to the date of transfer. The transferee
shall be required to establish to the satisfaction of the city that it
possesses the legal, technical and financial qualifications to operate and
maintain the system and comply with all franchise requirements for the
remainder of the term of the franchise. If, after considering the legal,
financial and technical qualities of the transferee and determining that they
are satisfactory, the grantor finds that the transfer is acceptable, the
grantor shall permit the transfer and assignment of the rights and obligations
of the franchise as may be in the public interest. The consent of the grantor
to the transfer shall not be unreasonably denied.
   (F)   Any financial institution having a security interest in any and all of
the property and assets of the grantee as security for any loan made to grantee
or any of its affiliates for the construction and/or operation of the cable
system must notify the grantor in accordance with this chapter and applicable
laws that it or its designee satisfactory to the grantor seeks to take control
of and operate the cable television system.
   (G)   In addition to the aforementioned requirements in this section, the
city and grantee shall, at all times, comply with the requirements of M.S. §
238.083, as may be amended from time to time, regarding the sale or transfer of
a franchise.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.21 CITY’S RIGHT TO PURCHASE SYSTEM.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 238.084(a), as may be amended from time to time, the city
shall have the right to purchase the cable system.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.22 PURCHASE BY CITY UPON EXPIRATION OR REVOCATION.
   In accordance with § 627 of the Cable Act (47 U.S.C. § 547) and all
applicable laws, at the expiration, cancellation, revocation or termination of
any franchise agreement, the city shall have the option to purchase, condemn
(consistent with state statutes) or otherwise acquire and hold the cable system
upon the payment of the fair market value of the cable system to grantee,
determined on the basis of the going concern value of the cable system
(exclusive of any value attributable to the franchise).
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.23 EMERGENCY USE.
   In the case of any emergency or disaster, the grantee shall, upon request of
the city or emergency management personnel, make its cable system and related
facilities available to the city for emergency use.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.24 GEOGRAPHICAL COVERAGE.
   (A)   The grantee shall design, construct and maintain the cable television
system to have the capability to pass every dwelling unit in the service area,
subject to any service area line extension requirements of the franchise
agreement.
   (B)   After service has been established by activating trunk and/or
distribution cables for any service area, the grantee shall provide cable
service to any requesting subscriber within that service area within 30 days
from the date of request; provided that, the grantee is able to secure all
rights-of-way necessary to extend service to the subscriber within the 30-day
period on reasonable terms and conditions.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.25 NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISE.
   (A)   Any franchise granted under this chapter shall be nonexclusive. The
grantor specifically reserves the right to grant, at any time, additional
franchises for a cable television system or any component thereof, as it deems
appropriate, subject to applicable laws. The grantor also specifically reserves
the right to operate a municipal cable television system pursuant to applicable
laws and shall not be required to grant a franchise to the city for the
operation of a municipal cable television system unless specifically required
by applicable laws.
   (B)   In the event grantor grants more than one franchise agreement to allow
persons to enter into grantor’s streets for the purpose of constructing and
operating a cable system to provide cable services in the service area, the
material provisions of each subsequent franchise agreement shall be no more
favorable nor less burdensome than those of previously granted franchise
agreements so that no one grantee is provided an unfair competitive advantage
over another and to provide all parties equal protection under the law.
Notwithstanding the aforementioned requirement, nothing herein shall in any way
prohibit grantor from imposing provisions in subsequent franchise agreements
which may be less favorable or more burdensome than those provisions contained
in existing franchise agreements so long as consistent with all applicable
laws.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.26 MULTIPLE FRANCHISES.
   (A)   The grantor may grant one or more franchises for a service area. The
grantor may, in its sole discretion, limit the number of franchises granted,
based upon, but not necessarily limited to, the requirements of applicable laws
and specific local considerations, such as:
      (1)   The capacity of the public rights-of-way to accommodate multiple
coaxial cables in addition to the cables, conduits and pipes of the utility
systems, such as electrical power, telephone, gas and sewage;
      (2)   The impact on the city of having multiple franchises;
      (3)   The disadvantages that may result from cable system competition,
such as the requirement for multiple pedestals on residents’ property, and the
disruption arising from numerous excavations of the rights-of-way; and
      (4)   The financial capabilities of the applicant and its guaranteed
commitment to make necessary investment to erect, maintain and operate the
proposed system for the duration of the franchise term.
   (B)   Each grantee awarded a franchise to serve the entire city shall offer
service to all residences in the city, in accordance with construction and
service schedules mutually agreed upon between the grantor and the grantee, and
consistent with applicable laws.
   (C)   The city may, in its sole discretion, require developers of new
residential housing with underground utilities to provide conduit to
accommodate cables for a minimum of two cable systems in accordance with the
provisions hereof.
   (D)   The grantor may require that any new grantee be responsible for its
own underground trenching and the costs associated therewith, if, in the
grantor’s opinion, the rights-of-way in any particular area cannot feasibly and
reasonably accommodate additional cables.
   (E)   Any additional franchise granted by the city to provide cable service
in a part of the city in which a franchise has already been granted and where
an existing grantee is providing service shall require the new grantee to
provide service throughout its service area within a reasonable time and in a
sequence which does not discriminate against lower income residents.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.27 FRANCHISE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Any person other than the city, desiring an initial franchise for a
cable television system shall file an application with the city. A reasonable
nonrefundable application fee in an amount established by the city shall
accompany the initial application. The application fee shall not be deemed to
be “franchise fees” within the meaning of § 622 of the Cable Act (47 U.S.C. §
542), and the payments shall not be deemed to be:
      (1)   “Payments in kind” or any involuntary payments chargeable against
the franchise fees to be paid to the city by grantee pursuant hereto and
applicable provisions of a franchise agreement; or
      (2)   Part of the franchise fees to be paid to the city by grantee
pursuant hereto and applicable provisions of a franchise agreement.
   (B)   An application for an initial franchise for a cable television system
shall be in a form reasonably acceptable to the grantor and may, in the city’s
sole discretion, contain, where applicable:
      (1)   A statement as to the proposed service area;
      (2)   A resume of prior history of applicant, including the legal,
technical and financial expertise of applicant in the cable television field;
      (3)   A list of the general and limited partners of the applicant, if a
partnership, or the shareholders, if a corporation;
      (4)   The percentage ownership of the applicant of each of its partners,
shareholders or other equity owners;
      (5)   A list of officers, directors and managing employees of applicant
or its general partner, as applicable, together with a description of the
background of each person;
      (6)   The names and addresses of any parent or subsidiary of applicant or
any other business entity owning or controlling applicant in whole or in part,
or owned or controlled in whole or in part by applicant;
      (7)   A current financial statement of applicant verified by an audit or
otherwise certified to be true, complete and correct to the reasonable
satisfaction of the city;
      (8)   Proposed construction and service schedule; and
      (9)   Any additional information that the city deems applicable.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.28 CONSIDERATION OF INITIAL APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of any application for an initial franchise, the City
Administrator shall prepare a report and make his or her recommendations
respecting the application to the City Council.
   (B)   A public hearing shall be set prior to any initial franchise grant, at
a time and date approved by the Council. Within 30 days after the close of the
hearing, the Council shall make a decision based upon the evidence received at
the hearing as to whether or not the franchise(s) should be granted, and, if
granted subject to what conditions. The Council may grant one or more initial
franchises, or may decline to grant any franchise.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.29 FRANCHISE RENEWAL.
   (A)   Franchise renewals shall be in accordance with applicable laws. The
grantor and grantee, by mutual consent, may enter into renewal negotiations at
any time during the term of the franchise. To the extent consistent with
applicable laws or permitted by a court of competent jurisdiction, a reasonable
non-refundable renewal application fee in an amount established by the city may
be required to accompany any renewal application.
   (B)   The application fee shall not be deemed to be “franchise fees” within
the meaning of § 622 of the Cable Act (47 U.S.C. § 542), and the payments shall
not be deemed to be:
       (1)   “Payments in kind” or any involuntary payments chargeable against
the franchise fees to be paid to the city by the grantee pursuant hereto and
applicable provisions of a franchise agreement; or
      (2)   Part of the franchise fees to be paid to the city by the grantee
pursuant hereto and applicable provisions of a franchise agreement.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.30 CONSUMER PROTECTION AND SERVICE STANDARDS.
   Except as otherwise provided in the franchise agreement, the grantee shall
maintain one or more customer service and bill payment offices at convenient
locations within the service area to provide the necessary facilities,
equipment and personnel to comply with the following consumer protection
standards under normal operating conditions.
   (A)   Cable system office hours and telephone availability.
      (1)   The grantee will maintain a local, toll-free or collect call
telephone access line which will be available to subscribers 24 hours a day,
seven days a week.
         (a)   Named grantee representatives will be available to respond to
customer telephone inquiries during normal business hours.
         (b)   After normal business hours, the access line may be answered by
a service or an automated response system, including an answering machine.
Inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded to by a
trained grantee representative on the next business day.
      (2)   Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer time by a
customer representative, including wait time, shall not exceed 30 seconds when
the connection is made. If the call needs to be transferred, transfer time
shall not exceed 30 seconds. These standards shall be met no less than 90% of
the time under normal operating conditions, measured on a quarterly basis.
      (3)   The grantee will not be required to acquire equipment or perform
surveys to measure compliance with the telephone answering standards above
unless an historical record of complaints indicates a clear failure to comply.
      (4)   Under normal operating conditions, the customer will receive a busy
signal less than 3% of the time.
      (5)   Customer service center and bill payment locations will be open at
least during normal business hours.
   (B)   Installations, outages and service calls. Under normal operating
conditions, each of the following four standards will be met no less than 95%
of the time measured on a quarterly basis.
      (1)   Standard installations will be performed within seven business days
after an order has been placed. Standard installations are those that are
located up to 125 feet from the existing distribution system.
      (2)   Excluding conditions beyond the control of the grantee, the grantee
will begin working on “service interruptions” promptly and in no event later
than 24 hours after the interruption becomes known. The grantee must begin
actions to correct other service problems the next business day after
notification of the service problem.
      (3)   The “appointment window” alternatives for installations, service
calls and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a four-hour time block during normal business hours. (The grantee may
schedule service calls and other installation activities outside of normal
business hours for the express convenience of the customer.)
      (4)   The grantee may not cancel an appointment with a customer after the
close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled appointment.
      (5)   If the grantee’s representative is running late for an appointment
with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as scheduled, the
customer will be contacted prior to the time of the scheduled appointment. The
appointment will be rescheduled, as necessary, at a time which is convenient
for the customer.
   (C)   Communications between grantee and subscribers.
      (1)   Notifications to subscribers.
         (a)   The grantee shall provide written information on each of the
following areas at the time of installation of service, at least annually to
all subscribers, and at any time upon request:
            1.   Products and services offered;
            2.   Prices and options for programming services and conditions of
subscription to programming and other services;
            3.   Installation and service maintenance policies; and
            4.   Instructions on how to use the cable service.
         (b)   Channel positions of the programming carried on the system; and
         (c)   Billing and complaint procedures, including the address and
telephone number of the grantee’s and grantor’s offices within the service
area.
         (d)   Customers will be notified of any changes in rates, programming
services or channel positions as soon as possible in writing. Notice must be
given to subscribers a minimum of 30 days in advance of the changes if the
change is within the control of the cable operator. In addition, the cable
operator shall notify subscribers 30 days in advance of any significant changes
in the other information required by division (C)(1)(a)1. above.
Notwithstanding any other provision of part 76, a cable operator shall not be
required to provide prior notice of any rate change that is the result of a
regulatory fee, franchise fee, or any other fee, tax assessment or charge of
any kind imposed by any federal agency, state or franchising authority on the
transaction between the operator and the subscriber.
      (2)   Billing.
         (a)   Bills will be clear, concise and understandable. Bills must be
fully itemized, with itemizations including, but not limited to, basic and
premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills will also clearly
delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional charges,
rebates and credits.
         (b)   In case of a billing dispute, the grantee must respond to a
written complaint from a subscriber within 30 days.
      (3)   Refunds. Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later than
either:
         (a)   The customer’s next billing cycle following resolution of the
request or 30 days, whichever is earlier; or
         (b)   The return of the equipment supplied by the grantee if service
is terminated.
      (4)   Credits. Credits for service will be issued no later than the
customer’s next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is
warranted.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.31 RATE REGULATION.
   The city reserves the right to regulate rates for basic cable service and
any other services offered over the cable system, to the extent permitted by
applicable laws. The grantee shall be subject to the rate regulation provisions
provided for herein, and those of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
at 47 C.F.R. part 76, subpart N, as the same may be amended from time to time.
The city shall follow the rules relating to cable rate regulation promulgated
by the FCC at 47 C.F.R. part 76, subpart N, as the same may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.32 FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   Following the issuance and acceptance of a franchise, the grantee
shall pay to the grantor a franchise fee in the amount set forth in the
franchise agreement.
   (B)   The grantor, on an annual basis, shall be furnished a statement within
60 days of the close of the calendar year, certified by a representative of the
grantee who is an accountant, reflecting the total amounts of gross revenues
and all payments, and computations of the franchise fee for the previous
calendar year. Upon ten-days’ prior written notice, the grantor shall have the
right to conduct an independent audit of the trainee’s records. If the audit
indicates a franchise fee underpayment of 5% or more, the grantee shall assume
all reasonable costs of an audit and shall remit to grantor all applicable
franchise fees due and payable together with interest thereon at the lesser of
the maximum rate permitted by applicable laws or 18% per annum.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by law, including the applicable state
statute of limitations, no acceptance of any payment by the grantor shall be
construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any claim the
grantor may have for further or additional sums payable as a franchise fee
under this chapter or any franchise agreement or for the performance of any
other obligation of the grantee.
   (D)   In the event that any franchise fee payment or recomputed amount is
not made on or before the dates specified in the franchise agreement, the
grantee shall pay as additional compensation an interest charge, computed from
the due date, at an annual rate equal to the lesser of the maximum rate
permitted by applicable laws or 18% per annum during the period for which
payment was due.
   (E)   Franchise fee payments shall be made in accordance with the schedule
indicated in the franchise agreement.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.33 DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The grantee shall not construct any cable system facilities until the
grantee has secured the necessary permits from the grantor or other applicable
governmental authorities.
   (B)   In those areas of the city where transmission or distribution
facilities of all the public utilities providing telephone and electric power
service are underground, the grantee likewise shall construct, operate and
maintain its transmission and distribution facilities therein underground.
   (C)   In those areas of the city where the grantee’s cables are located on
the above-ground transmission or distribution facilities of the public utility
providing telephone or electric power service and, in the event that the
facilities of both the public utilities subsequently are placed underground,
then the grantee likewise shall construct, operate and maintain its
transmission and distribution facilities underground, at the grantee’s cost.
Certain of the grantee’s equipment, such as pedestals, amplifiers and power
supplies, which normally are placed above ground, may continue to remain in
above-ground closures.
   (D)   Any grantee wishing to serve an area where the trenches have been
closed shall be responsible for its own trenching and associated costs and
shall repair all property to the condition which existed prior to the
trenching.
   (E)   In the event that more than one franchise is awarded, the city
reserves the right to limit the number of drop cables and/or pedestals per
residence, or to require that the drop cables and/or pedestal(s) be utilized
only by the Council selected by the resident to provide service.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.34 TECHNICAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   The grantee shall construct, install, operate and maintain us system
in a manner consistent with all applicable laws and the Federal Communications
Commission technical standards, and any standards set forth in its franchise
agreement. In addition, the grantee shall provide to the grantor, upon request,
a written report of the results of the grantee’s periodic proof of performance
tests conducted pursuant to Federal Communications Commission standards and
guidelines. The grantee and the city shall additionally comply with any other
applicable laws or technical standards concerning any services which the
grantee provides over its cable system including the FCC’s jurisdiction over
enforcement of technical standards.
   (B)   Repeated and verified failure to maintain specified technical
standards shall constitute a material breach of the franchise entitling the
city to utilize the procedures hereof.
   (C)   All construction practices shall be in accordance with all applicable
sections of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, as amended, as well
as all other applicable laws.
   (D)   All installation of electronic equipment shall be of a permanent
nature, durable and installed in accordance with the applicable provisions of
the National Electrical and Safety Code and National Electrical Code, as
amended, and as may from time to time be amended.
   (E)   Antennas and their supporting structures (towers) shall be painted,
lighted, erected and maintained in accordance with all applicable rules and
regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration and all other applicable
laws.
   (F)   All of the grantee’s plant and equipment, including, but not limited
to, the antennas of headend and distribution system, towers, house connections,
structures, poles, wire, coaxial cable, fixtures and appurtenances shall be
installed, located, erected, constructed, reconstructed, replaced, removed,
repaired, maintained and operated in accordance with good engineering
practices, performed by experienced maintenance and construction personnel so
as not to endanger or interfere with improvements, the city may deem
appropriate to make or to interfere in any manner with the rights of any
property owner, or to unnecessarily hinder or obstruct pedestrian or vehicular
traffic.
   (G)   The grantee shall, at all times, employ ordinary care and shall
install and maintain in use commonly accepted methods and devices preventing
failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injury or nuisance lo
the public.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.35 TRIMMING OF TREES.
   The grantee shall have the authority to trim trees, in accordance with all
applicable utility restrictions, ordinance and easement restrictions, upon and
hanging over streets and public places of the city so as to prevent the
branches of the trees from coming in contact with the wires and cables of
grantee. The city representatives shall have authority to supervise at city
expense and approve all trimming of trees conducted by the grantee.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.36 USE OF GRANTEE FACILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to install and maintain, upon the poles
and within the underground pipes and conduits of grantee, any wires and
fixtures desired by the city to the extent that the installation and
maintenance does not interfere with existing or future operations of the
grantee.
   (B)   The grantee shall not impose any lease costs on the grantor.
   (C)   If the grantee installs and maintains grantor’s wires and fixtures,
the grantor shall pay the grantee its actual costs incurred for the
installation only, excluding any profit to the grantee.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.37 PROGRAMMING DECISIONS.
   All programming decisions shall be at the sole discretion of the grantee;
provided, however, that, any change in the mix, quality or level of service
shall be in accordance with 47 U.S.C. § 545.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.38 INDEMNIFICATION.
   The grantee shall indemnify, defend and hold the city, its officers, boards,
commissions, agents and employees (collectively the “indemnified parties”)
harmless from and against any and all lawsuits, claims, causes of action,
actions, liability, demands, damages, judgments, settlements, losses, expenses
(including reasonable attorneys’ fees) and costs of any nature that any of the
indemnified parties may at any time, directly or indirectly, suffer, sustain or
incur arising out of, based upon or in any way connected with the operation of
the grantee’s system by grantee and/or the acts and/or omissions of grantee or
its agents or employees, whether or not pursuant to the franchise. This
indemnity shall apply, without limitation, to any action or cause of action for
invasion of privacy, defamation, antitrust, errors and omissions, theft, fire,
violation or infringement of any copyright, trademark, trade names, service
mark, patent or any other right of any person, whether or not any act or
omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by this chapter or
any franchise agreement, but shall exclude any claim or action arising out of
the acts or omissions of the indemnified parties or related to any city
programming or other access programming for which the grantee is not legally
responsible.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.39 INSURANCE.
   Upon the effective date of the grant of a franchise, the grantee shall
obtain, pay all premiums for and make available to the city, at its request,
certificates of insurance for the following insurance policies:
   (A)   A general commercial liability insurance policy insuring,
indemnifying, defending and saving harmless the indemnified parties from any
and all claims by any person whatsoever on account of injury to or death of a
person or persons occasioned by the operations of the grantee under any
franchise granted hereunder, or alleged to have been so caused or occurred with
a minimum coverage of $1,000,000 for personal injury or death of one person and
$3,000,000 for personal injury or death of any two or more persons in any one
occurrence. The policy limits provided for herein may be unilaterally increased
by city every five years to reflect increases in the Consumer Price Index;
   (B)   Property damage insurance for property damage occasioned by the
operation of grantee under any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, or
alleged to have been so caused or occurred, with minimum coverage of $1,000,000
for property damage to the property of any one person and $3,000,000 for
property damage to the properly of two or more persons in any one occurrence.
The policy limits provided for herein may be unilaterally increased by city
every five years to reflect increases in the Consumer Price Index;
   (C)   Workers compensation insurance as provided by applicable laws;
   (D)   All certificates of insurance called for herein shall be in a form
satisfactory to the city with a company licensed to do business in the state
with a rating by A.M. Best & Co. of not less than “A” and shall require 30-
days’ written notice of any cancellation to both the city and the grantee. The
grantee shall, in the event of any cancellation notice, obtain, pay all
premiums for, and file with the city, written evidence of the issuance of
replacement policies within 30 days following receipt by the city or the
grantee of any notice of cancellation;
   (E)   If the grantee sells or transfers the cable system, or in the event of
expiration, termination or revocation of a franchise, insurance and coverage
shall be purchased and filed with the city for the then applicable amounts,
providing coverage for the time periods according to applicable statutes of
limitation, insurance for any issues attributable to the period the grantee
held its franchise; and
   (F)   It shall be the obligation of the grantee to promptly notify the city
of any pending or threatened litigation that would be likely to affect the
indemnified parties.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.40 RECORDS REQUIRED AND GRANTOR’S RIGHT TO INSPECT.
   (A)   The grantee shall, at all times, maintain:
      (1)   A full and complete set of plans, records and “strand” maps showing
the location of the cable television system installed or in use in the city,
exclusive of subscriber service drops and equipment provided in subscribers’
homes.
      (2)   If requested by the grantor, a summary of service calls,
identifying the number, general nature and disposition of the calls, on a
monthly basis. A summary of the service calls shall be submitted to the grantor
within 30 days following its request in a form reasonably acceptable to the
grantor.
   (B)   Upon reasonable notice, and during normal business hours, the grantee
shall permit examination by any duly authorised representative of the grantor,
of all franchise property and facilities, together with any appurtenant
property and facilities of grantee situated within or without the city, and all
records relating to the franchise, provided they are necessary to enable the
grantor to carry out its regulatory responsibilities under applicable laws,
this chapter and the franchise agreement. The grantee shall have the right to
be present at any examination.
   (C)   The city shall also have the right to inspect, upon 24-hours’ written
notice, at any time during normal business hours at grantee’s office, all
books, records, maps, plans, financial statements, service complaint logs,
performance test results, records of request for service and other like
materials of grantee as necessary for enforcement of the provisions of this
chapter and those of any franchise agreement granted hereunder.
   (D)   Copies of all petitions, applications, communications and reports
submitted by the grantee or on behalf of or relating to the grantee to the
Federal Communications Commission, Securities and Exchange Commission, or any
other governmental authority having jurisdiction with respect to any matters
affecting the cable system authorized pursuant to this chapter and any
franchise shall be submitted upon request to the city. Copies of responses from
the governmental authority to the grantee shall likewise be furnished to the
city within 15 days of receipt of the response.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.41 FRANCHISE VIOLATION.
   In the event grantor believes that grantee has breached or violated any
material provision of this chapter or a franchise granted hereunder and the
grantor desires to impose the provisions of this section, the grantor shall act
in accordance with the following procedures.
   (A)   The grantor shall notify grantee of the alleged violation or breach by
certified mail and demand that grantee cure the same within a reasonable time,
which shall not be less than ten days in the case of an alleged failure of the
grantee to pay any sum or other amount due the grantor under this chapter or
the grantee’s franchise and 30 days in all other cases. If grantee fails either
to cure the alleged violation or breach within the time prescribed or to
commence correction of the violation or breach within the time prescribed and
thereafter diligently pursue correction of the alleged violation or breach, the
grantor shall then give written notice of not less than 14 days of a public
hearing to be held before the Council.
   (B)   The notice shall specify the violations or breaches alleged to have
occurred. At the public hearing, the Council shall hear and consider relevant
evidence and thereafter render findings and its decision. In the event the
Council finds that a material violation or breach exists and that the grantee
has not cured the same in a satisfactory manner or has not diligently commenced
to cure the violation or breach after notice thereof from grantor and is not
diligently proceeding to fully cure the violation or breach, the Council may
revoke and terminate the franchise or impose any other remedy permitted by the
franchise agreement or applicable laws.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.42 FORCE MAJEURE; GRANTEE’S INABILITY TO PERFORM.
   In the event the grantee’s performance of any of the terms, conditions,
obligations or requirements of this chapter and franchise agreement is
prevented or impaired due to any cause beyond its reasonable control, the
inability to perform shall be deemed to be excused for the period of the
inability and no penalties or sanctions shall be imposed as a result thereof;
provided, the grantee has notified the grantor in writing as soon as reasonably
practicable of its discovery of the occurrence of an event. The causes beyond
grantee’s reasonable control shall include, but shall not be limited to, acts
of God, civil emergencies and labor unrest or strikes, untimely delivery of
equipment, inability of the grantee to obtain access to an individual’s
property and inability of the grantee to secure all necessary permits to
utilize utility poles and conduit so long as grantee utilizes due diligence to
timely obtain the permits.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.43 ABANDONMENT OR REMOVAL OF FRANCHISE PROPERTY.
   (A)   In the event that the use of any property of the grantee within the
franchise area or a portion thereof is discontinued for a continuous period of
12 months, the grantee shall be deemed to have abandoned that property. The
grantee shall be afforded 30-days’ advance notice before this provision may be
implemented.
   (B)   The grantor, upon such terms as the grantor may impose, may give the
grantee permission to abandon, without removing, any system facility or
equipment laid, directly constructed, operated or maintained in, on, under or
over the franchise area. Unless the permission is granted or unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, the grantee shall remove all abandoned facilities and
equipment upon receipt of written notice from the grantor and shall restore any
affected street to its former state at the time the facilities and equipment
were installed, so as not to impair its usefulness. In removing its plant,
structures and equipment, the grantee shall refill, at its own expense, any
excavation made by or on behalf of the grantee and shall leave all streets and
other public ways and places in as good condition as that prevailing prior to
the removal without materially interfering with any electrical or telephone
cable or other utility wires, poles or attachments. The grantor shall have the
right to inspect and approve the condition of the streets, public ways, public
places, cables, wires, attachments and poles prior to and after removal. The
liability, indemnity and insurance provisions of this chapter and any security
fund provided for in the franchise agreement shall continue in full force and
effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by grantee with
the terms and conditions of this section.
   (C)   Upon abandonment of any franchise property in place and the notice
required under division (A) above, the grantee, if required by the grantor,
shall submit to the grantor a bill of sale and/or other an instrument,
satisfactory in form and content to the grantor, transferring to the grantor
the ownership of the franchise property abandoned.
   (D)   At the expiration of the term tor which the franchise is granted, or
upon us earlier revocation or termination, as provided for herein and/or in the
franchise agreement, in any such case without renewal, extension or transfer,
the grantor shall have the right to require grantee to remove, at its own
expense, all above-ground portions of the cable television system from all
streets and public ways within the city within a reasonable period of time,
which shall not be less than 180 days.
   (E)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this chapter,
the grantee may, with the consent of the grantor, abandon any underground
franchise property in place so long as it does not materially interfere with
the use of the street or public rights-of-way in which the property is located
or with the use thereof by any public utility or other cable grantee.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.44 EXTENDED OPERATION AND CONTINUITY OF SERVICES.
   Upon the expiration, revocation or termination of the franchise, the grantor
shall have discretion to permit and/or require grantee to continue to operate
the cable television system for a period of time not to exceed six months from
the date of the expiration, revocation or termination. The grantee shall
continue to operate the system under the terms and conditions of this chapter
and the franchise and to provide the regular subscriber service and any and all
of the services that may be provided at that time.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.45 RECEIVERSHIP AND FORECLOSURE.
   (A)   A franchise granted hereunder shall, at the option of the grantor,
cease and terminate 120 days after appointment of a receiver or receivers, or
trustee or trustees, to take over and conduct the business of the grantee,
whether in a receivership, reorganization, bankruptcy or other action or
proceeding, unless the receivership or trusteeship shall have been vacated
prior to the expiration of the 120 days, or unless:
      (1)   The receivers or trustees shall have, within 120 days after their
election or appointment, fully complied with all the terms and provisions of
this chapter and the franchise granted pursuant hereto, and the receivers or
trustees within the 120 days shall have remedied all the defaults and
violations under the franchise and/or this chapter or provided a plan for the
remedy of the defaults and violations which is satisfactory to the grantor; and
      (2)   The receivers or trustees shall, within the 120 days, execute an
agreement duly approved by the court having jurisdiction in the premises,
whereby the receivers or trustees assume and agree to be bound by each and
every term, provision and limitation of the franchise and this chapter.
   (B)   In the case of foreclosure or other judicial sale of the franchise
properly, or any internal part thereof, the grantor may give notice of
termination of any franchise granted pursuant to this chapter upon grantee and
the successful bidder at the sale, in which the event the franchise granted and
all rights and privileges of the grantee hereunder shall cease and terminate 30
days after the notice has been given, unless:
      (1)   The grantor shall have approved the transfer of the franchise in
accordance with the provisions of the franchise and this chapter; and
      (2)   The successful bidder shall have covenanted and agreed with grantor
to assume and be bound by all terms and conditions of the franchise.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.46 RIGHTS RESERVED TO GRANTOR.
   (A)   In addition to any rights specifically reserved to the grantor by this
chapter, the grantor reserves to itself every right and power which is required
to be reserved by a provision of any ordinance or under the franchise.
   (B)   (1)   The grantor shall have the right to waive any provision of the
franchise, except those required by applicable laws, if the grantor, in its
sole opinion, determines:
         (a)   It is in the public interest to do so; and
         (b)   The enforcement of the provision will impose an undue hardship
on the grantee or the subscribers.
      (2)   Waiver of any provision in one instance shall not be deemed a
waiver of the provision subsequent in the instance nor be deemed a waiver of
any other provision of the franchise unless the statement so recites.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
§ 111.47 RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS.
   (A)   The grantee shall not deny service, deny access or otherwise
discriminate against subscribers, channel users or general citizens on the
basis of race, color, religion, disability, national origin, age, gender or
sexual preference. The grantee shall comply at all times with all other
applicable laws, relating to nondiscrimination.
   (B)   The grantee shall adhere to the applicable equal employment
opportunity requirements of applicable laws, as now written or as amended from
time to time.
   (C)   Neither the grantee, nor any person, agency or entity shall, without
the subscriber’s consent, tap or arrange for the tapping, of any cable, line,
signal input device, or subscriber outlet or receiver for any purpose except
routine maintenance of the system, detection of unauthorized service, polling
with audience participating, or audience viewing surveys to support advertising
research regarding viewers where individual viewing behavior cannot be
identified.
   (D)   In the conduct of providing its services or in pursuit of any
collateral commercial enterprise resulting therefrom, the grantee shall take
reasonable steps to prevent the invasion of a subscriber’s or general citizen’s
right of privacy or other personal lights through the use of the system as the
rights are delineated or defined by applicable laws, the grantee shall not,
without lawful court order or other applicable valid legal authority, utilize
the system’s interactive two-way equipment or capability for unauthorized
personal surveillance of any subscriber or general citizen.
   (E)   No cable line, wire, amplifier, converter or other piece of equipment
owned by the grantee shall be installed by grantee in the subscriber’s
premises, other than in appropriate easements, without first securing any
required consent. If a subscriber requests service, permission to install upon
the subscriber’s property shall be presumed. Where a property owner or his or
her predecessor was granted an easement including a public utility easement or
a servitude to by its terms contemplates a use as the grantee’s intended use,
the grantee shall not be required to secure the written permission of the owner
for the installation of cable television equipment.
   (F)   To the extent required by applicable laws, no signals of a Class IV
cable communications channel may be transmitted from a subscriber terminal for
purposes of monitoring individual viewing patterns or practices without the
express written permission of a subscriber. The request for permission must be
contained in a separate document with a prominent statement that the subscriber
is authorizing the permission in full knowledge of its provisions. The written
permission must be for a limited period of time not to exceed one year with
renewal at the option of the subscriber. No penalty may be invoked for a
subscriber’s failure to provide or renew the authorization. The authorization
is revocable at any time by the subscriber without penalty of any kind. The
permission must required for each type or classification of Class IV cable
communications activity planned.
      (1)   No information or data obtained by monitoring transmission of a
signal from a subscriber terminal, including, but not limited to, the lists of
the names and addresses of the subscriber’s or lists that identify the viewing
habits of subscribers may be sold or otherwise made available to any person
other than to the grantee and its employees for internal business use, or to
the subscriber who is the subject of that information, unless the grantee has
received specific written authorization from the subscriber to make the date
available.
      (2)   Written permission from the subscriber must not be required for the
systems conducting system wide or individually addressed electronic sweeps for
the purpose of verifying system integrity or monitoring for the purpose of
billing. Confidentiality of this information is subject to division (F)(1)
above.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, a CLASS IV CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
CHANNEL means a signaling path provided by a system to transmit signals of any
type from a subscriber terminal to another point in the system.
(Ord. 78, passed 10-13-1997)
CHAPTER 112: JUNK YARDS AND DEALERS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   License application
   
112.04   Inspection
   
112.05   Term of license
   
112.06   Premises requirements
   
112.07   Records of licensee
   
112.08   Existing junk yards
   
112.09   Enforcement
   
112.10   Effective date
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   No person or persons, association, partnership, firm or corporation shall
hereafter in the city keep conduct or maintain any building, structure, yard or
place for keeping, storing or piling in quantities, whether temporarily,
irregularly or continually, old, used or second hand materials of any kind,
including clothing, papers, rubbish, bottles, rubber, iron, brass or other
metal, furniture or used inoperative motor vehicles not currently licensed, or
parts of motor vehicles, agricultural or construction equipment, building
materials, or any other article which, from its worn condition, renders it
practically useless for the purpose for which it was made and which is commonly
classed and referred to as junk. Anyone carrying on the aforesaid business or
activities shall be deemed a junk dealer and subject to the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 43, passed 7-17-1967)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All junk dealers, as defined in §
112.01, shall not henceforth engage in the business or activity without first
obtaining a license pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 43, passed 7-17-1967)
§ 112.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every applicant for a license to engage in the activity of a junk
dealer shall file with the city a written application signed by the applicant
and accompanied by a license fee of $100 as prescribed in the city ordinance
establishing the rates and charges for services provided by the city at the
time of application or renewal.
   (B)   The application shall state:
      (1)   The names and residences of the applicant or applicants or the
principal officers and their residence in the event the applicant is an
association or corporation;
      (2)   The detailed nature of the business to be conducted, stored,
bought, sold or otherwise handled; and
      (3)   The premises where the business or activity is to be located or
carried on.
   (C)   This section shall take effect from and after its passage and
publication in the official newspaper of the city. The ordinance codified
herein was published on 2-8-2007.
(Ord. 43, passed 7-17-1967; Ord. 43.1, passed 1-22-2007)
§ 112.04 INSPECTION.
   The City Administrator shall report the application to the City Marshal,
Fire Chief and Building Inspector, who shall inspect or cause to be inspected
the premises to determine whether the activity shall comply with all laws and
ordinances and whether the activity maybe carried on so as not to create a
fire, health or safety hazzard. The city officers shall report their findings
to the City Council at its next regular meeting.
(Ord. 43, passed 7-17-1967)
§ 112.05 TERM OF LICENSE.
   The City Council shall act upon all applications and, in its discretion,
shall grant a license to conduct the business or activity of a junk dealer for
a period of time not to exceed one year. After the expiration of one year, the
applicant must resubmit a new application pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 43, passed 7-17-1967)
§ 112.06 PREMISES REQUIREMENTS.
   No license shall be granted by the City Council unless the following
conditions exist.
   (A)   Buildings used for the business or activity of junk dealing handling
combustible material shall be of fireproof construction.
   (B)   The premises upon which the business of activity of a junk dealer
shall be enclosed by a proper fence or other structure not less than seven feet
in height, constructed so that no dust or other material may pass through, and
the enclosure shall be maintained in good condition at all times and no article
shall be piled so as to protrude above the enclosure or the business shall be
conducted entirely within an enclosed building.
   (C)   The premises used for the business or activity of a junk dealer must
be within an area zoned heavy manufacturing or commercial.
(Ord. 43, passed 7-17-1967)
§ 112.07 RECORDS OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   All junk dealers shall keep a record of all serial numbers and
descriptions of the articles purchased and sold and from whom the purchase was
made and to whom the article was sold.
   (B)   The premises shall be open to inspection by the City Marshal.
(Ord. 43, passed 7-17-1967)
§ 112.08 EXISTING JUNK YARDS.
   Any junk dealer using the premises for the business or activity of junk
dealing at the time of the passage of this chapter which does not comply with
the provision of this chapter may be granted a temporary license for six
months, but the license shall not be renewed unless a new license is granted
pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 43, passed 7-17-1967)
§ 112.09 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Upon complaint being made in writing by any municipal official or
resident of the city to the City Administrator that any junk dealer has
violated the provisions of this chapter, the Administrator shall summon the
licensee to appear before the City Council at a specified time and place, which
shall be not less than three days after the date of the service thereof, to
show cause why his or her license shall not be revoked.
   (B)   The Council shall proceed to hear the matter and, if it finds the
allegations of the complaint are correct, it shall revoke the junk dealer’s
license, and the license fee shall be forfeited.
(Ord. 43, passed 7-17-1967)
§ 112.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect and be in full force from and after its
passage and publication. The ordinance codified herein was published on 7-20-
1967.
(Ord. 43, passed 7-17-1967)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association, partnership or corporation by himself,
herself or itself or by him, her or its agent or employee who violates the
provisions of this chapter and maintains a junk yard in violation hereof shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a
fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a period not more than 90
days.
(Ord. 43, passed 7-17-1967)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
113.01   Definitions
   
113.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
113.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
113.04   License ineligibility
   
113.05   License suspension and revocation
   
113.06   License transferability
   
113.07   Registration
   
113.08   Prohibited activities
   
113.09   Exclusion by placard
§ 113.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
“hawker.”
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term “canvasser.”
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for
more than 14 consecutive days.
§ 113.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by
the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
113.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
§ 113.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Ch.
329 as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a license for
the
activity.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are still required to register pursuant to §
113.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for a
license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the City Clerk. All applications shall be signed by the
applicant. All applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   Applicant's full legal name.
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers.
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like).
      (4)   Full address of applicant's permanent residence.
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence.
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent.
      (7)   Full address of applicant's regular place of business (if any).
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant.
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license.
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license.
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive days).
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business.
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses.
      (14)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant.
      (15)   Proof of any requested county license.
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant.
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council.
      (19)   The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable form
of identification.
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established by the city.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk, within two regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk
determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk must inform the
applicant of the required necessary information that is missing. If the
application is complete, the City Clerk must order any investigation, including
background checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the
application. Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete
application the City Clerk must issue the license unless there exist grounds
for denying the license under §
113.04, in which case the Clerk must deny the license. If the City Clerk denies
the license, the applicant must be notified in writing of the decision, the
reason for denial, and of the applicant's right to appeal the denial by
requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing
before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days
of the date of the request. The decision of the City Council following the
public hearing can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals
for a writ of certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted under
this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person's
State or Federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press,
religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person's
exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fund raisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license.
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant.
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Attorney General's Office, or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints
filed against the applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 113.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statements on the application
form.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under §
113.04.
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten regular
business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with
the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall
be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be
scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.07 REGISTRATION.
   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of
this chapter under §
113.03, shall be required to register with the city. Persons engaging in door-
to-door advocacy shall not be required to register. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering as vehicles for
the dissemination of religious, political and other ideas. Registration shall
be made on the same form required for a license application, but no fee shall
be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City
Clerk shall issue to the registrant a Certificate of Registration as proof of
the registration. Certificates of Registration shall be non-transferable.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public.
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person.
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient
Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign
or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Intoxicating Liquor
   
114.01   Statutory authorization
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   License required
   
114.04   License fees
   
114.05   Granting licenses
   
114.06   Persons ineligible for license
   
114.07   Places ineligible for license
   
114.08   Conditions of license
   
114.09   Restriction on purchase and consumption
   
114.10   Suspension and revocation
   
114.11   State law adopted
Non-intoxicating Liquor
   
114.25   Definitions
   
114.26   License required
   
114.27   Applications
   
114.28   Fees
   
114.29   Granting license
   
114.30   Conditions of licenses
   
114.31   Practices prohibited
   
114.32   Hours
   
114.33   Clubs
   
114.34   No partition
   
114.35   Revocation
 
   
114.99   Penalty
INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 114.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   Pursuant to M.S. Ch. 340A, as may be amended from time to time, the state
has authorized any city to issue on sale liquor licenses to private persons in
conjunction with the operation of hotels and restaurants after the issuance has
been approved by the voters of the city. The approval was given the city at the
general election of 11-7-1978.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL. Any establishment having a resident proprietor or manager, wherein,
consideration of payment therefore, food and lodging are regularly furnished to
transients; which maintains for the use of its guests not less than 25 guest
rooms, bedding and other usual suitable and necessary furnishings in each room,
which is provided at the main entrance with a suitable lobby, desk and office
for the registration of its guests on the ground floor, which employs an
adequate staff to provide suitable and usual service, and which maintains under
the same management and control as the rest of the establishment and has, as an
integral part thereof, a dining room with appropriate facilities for seating
not less than 100 guests at one time, where the general public are, in
consideration of payment therefore are served with meals at tables.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. Ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented,
spiritous, vinous and malt beverages containing an excess of 3.2% of alcohol by
weight.
   OFF-SALE. The sale of alcoholic beverages in original packages for
consumption off the licensed premises only.
   ON-SALE. The sale of liquor by the glass or by the drink for consumption on
the premises only pursuant to regulations as the Commissioner may prescribe.
   PERSON. Bodies politic, and corporate, and to partnerships and other
incorporated associations.
   RESTAURANTS. Any establishment, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, having appropriate facilities for the serving of
meals, and where, in consideration of payment therefore, meals are regularly
served at tables to the general public, arid which employs an adequate staff to
provide a usual and suitable service to its guests. Any such establishment
shall have facilities for seating not less than 100 guests at one time.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-1-1979; Ord. 63.02, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 114.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, except a wholesaler or manufactured to the extent
authorized under state license, shall directly or indirectly deal in, sell or
keep for sale in the city any intoxicating liquor without a license to do so as
so provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Liquor licenses shall be of four types: on-sale, on-sale wine, off-
sale and special Sunday sales.
   (C)   “On-sale licenses” shall be issued only to hotels and restaurants, as
defined in §
114.02.
   (D)   “On-sale wine licenses” shall mean licenses authorizing the sale of
wine not exceeding 14% alcohol by volume, for consumption on the license
premises only, in conjunction with the sale of food.
      (1)   For the purposes of this division, RESTAURANT shall mean an
establishment, under the control of a single proprietor or manager, having
appropriate facilities for serving meals, and where, in consideration of
payment therefore, meals are regularly served at tables to the general public,
and which employs an adequate staff to provide the ususal and suitable service
to guests.
      (2)   The licenses may be issued to any restaurant having facilities
seating not fewer than 25 guests at one time.
      (3)   Licenses issued pursuant to this division shall not be effective
until approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
      (4)   The licenses shall authorize the sale of wine, as herein provided
on all days of the week.
      (5)   A special license authorizing sales on Sunday in conjunction with
the serving of food may be issued to any hotel or restaurant, as defined in
this  subchapter  which has an on-sale license.
      (6)   A holder of an on-sale wine license issued pursuant to this
section, who is also licensed to sell 3.2% malt liquor at on-sale pursuant
hereto and whose gross receipts are at least 60% attributable to the sale of
food, may sell intoxicating malt liquor at on-sale without an additional
license upon approval of the City Council.
   (E)   OFF-SALE LICENSES shall mean 1icenses authorizing the sale of
intoxicating liquor in original packages for consumption off of the premises.
   (F)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage by the City Council and after its publication in the official newspaper
of the city. Ordinance 63.02 was published on 4-22-1993. Ordinance 63.04 was
published on 3-17-1999.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-1-1979; Ord. 63.02, passed 3-2-1993; Ord. 63.04, passed 3-
1-1999) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Fees. The annual fees for a liquor license shall be:
      (1)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor: $165.
      (2)   Off-sale 3.2% malt liquor: $40.
      (3)   On-sale intoxicating liquor license for clubs with between 201 and
500 members: $500.
      (4)   On-sale intoxicating liquor club (over 500 members): $650.
      (5)   On-sale intoxicating liquor Sunday only: $200.
      (6)   On-sale intoxicating liquor other: $2,200.
      (7)   On-sale wine license: $220.
      (8)   On-sale 3.2% malt liquor: $220.
      (9)   On-sale intoxicating liquor (Brewer taproom): $550.
      (10)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor (Growler’s, including Sundays): $165.
   (B)   Payment. Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a
receipt from the City Treasurer for payment in full of a license fee. All fees
shall be paid into the General Fund. If an application for a license is
rejected, the Treasurer shall refund the amount paid.
   (C)   Term; prorata fee.
      (1)   Each license shall be issued for a period of one year, except that
if the application is made during the license year, a license may be issued for
the remainder of the year for a prorata fee, with any unexpired fraction of the
month being counted as one month.
      (2)   Every license shall expire on September 30.
   (D)   Refunds. Refunds of any fee shall be made only in accordance with M.S.
Ch. 340A, as may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage by the City Council and after its publication in the
official newspaper of the city. Ordinance 63.02 was published on 4-22-1993.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-1-1979; Ord. 63.02, passed 3-2-1993; Ord. 2013-01 (86.8),
passed 7-22-2013; Res. 1212, passed 1-23-2023)
§ 114.05 GRANTING LICENSES.
   (A)   Investigation and issuance. The City Council shall investigate all
facts set out in the application and if they deem it to be in the public
interest it may provide for a comprehensive background and investigation of the
applicant be performed as provided in M.S. Ch. 340A, as may be amended from
time to time. After the investigation the Council shall in its discretion,
grant or refuse the application. An on-sale wine and off-sale liquor license
shall not become effective until it, together with security furnished by the
applicant, has been approved by the Liquor Control Director.
   (B)   Person or premises licensed; transfer. Each license shall be issued
only to the applicant and for the premises described in the application. No
license may be transferred to another person or place without City Council
approval. Any transfer of stock with a corporate license is deemed a transfer
of the license and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval is a
ground for revocation of the license.
   (C)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage by the City Council and after its publication in the
official newspaper of the city. Ordinance 63.02 was published on 4-22-1993.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-1-1979; Ord. 63.02, passed 3-2-1993)
§ 114.06 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted to any person made ineligible for such a license
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 340A, as may be amended from time to time. No license may
be granted any person who is not actively involved in the operation and
management of the premises licensed.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 114.07 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   General prohibition. No license shall be issued for any place or any
business ineligible pursuant to the laws of the state.
   (B)   Delinquent taxes and charges. No license shall be granted for
operation of any premise on which taxes, assessments or other financial claims
upon the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (C)   Distance from schools or churches. No license shall be granted within
500 feet of any school or within 300 feet of any church.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 114.08 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   In general. Every license is subject to the conditions in the
following subdivisions and all other provisions of this subchapter and of any
other applicable ordinance, state law or regulation.
   (B)   Licensee’s responsibility. Every licensee is responsible for the
conduct of his or her place of business and the conditions of sobriety and
order in it. The act of any employee on the licensed premises authorized to
sell intoxicating liquor there is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and
the licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by this subchapter and
the law equally with the employee.
   (C)   Inspections. Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health
officer or properly designated officer or employee of the city to enter,
inspect and search the premises of the licensee during any hour of business or
whenever it appears that the premise so licensed is occupied, without a
warrant.
   (D)   Display during prohibited hours. No on-sale establishment shall
display liquor to the public during hours when the sale of liquor is
prohibited.
   (E)   Federal stamps. No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale liquor
dealer’s special tax stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
   (F)   Hours of sale.
      (1)   No sale of intoxicating liquor for consumption on the licensed
premises may be made between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days Monday through
Saturday.
      (2)   No sale of intoxicating liquor by a licensed premise may be made
between 8:00 p.m. on December 24 and 8:00 a.m. December 25.
      (3)   No sale of intoxicating liquor by a licensed premise may be made
after 1:00 a.m. on Sundays, except those licensed premises which hold a special
on-sale Sunday license may sell intoxicating liquor for consumption on the
licensed premises between the hours of 10:00 a.m. on Sunday and 1:00 a.m.
Monday.
      (4)   Licensed premises which hold a special off-sale intoxicating liquor
(Growlers, including Sundays) license may sell between the hours of 10:00 a.m.
on Sunday and 10:00 p.m. Sunday.
   (G)   General provisions.
      (1)   No licensee licensed to sell intoxicating liquor on-sale shall
permit any person to consume intoxicating liquor in the licensed premises later
than one-half hour after which state statutes allow for the sale of
intoxicating liquor and before the hour on which state statutes allow for the
sale of intoxicating liquor to resume. No licensee shall permit any consumer or
person whomever, except employees of the licensee, to remain on the licensed
premises later than one-half hour after which state statutes allow for the sale
of intoxicating liquor and before opening for the next normal business day.
      (2)   No person licensed to sell 3.2% malt liquor shall permit any person
to consume 3.2% malt liquor on the licensed premises later than one-half hour
after which state statutes allow for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor and before
the hour on which state statutes allow for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor to
resume. No licensee shall permit any consumer or person whomever, except
employees of the licensee, to remain on the licensed premises later than one-
half hour after which state statutes allow for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor and
before opening for the next normal business day.
      (3)   For purposes of divisions (G)(1) and (2) above, persons employed by
contract to provide entertainment for the licensee may remain on the licensed
premise for one hour after which state statutes allow for the sale of
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor for purposes of packing and loading
equipment for removal from the licensed premise. Nothing contained herein shall
be construed as to allow the contract employee to consume any intoxicating
liquor or 3.2% malt liquor on the licensed premises during the hours of
restricted sale.
      (4)   A licensee shall allow any law enforcement official to enter the
premises for the purpose of investigating possible violations of this
subchapter, other ordinances and state statutes.
      (5)   Any license issued under this subchapter shall be posted in a
conspicuous place on the premises for which it is issued.
      (6)   A licensee shall comply with all laws, rules and regulations of the
state and federal governments in operation on the premises, and shall ensure
compliance therewith by each of his or her partners, employees, agents and
customers.
      (7)   A licensee shall make every sale in full view of the public.
      (8)   A licensee shall immediately stop sales when ordered to do so by
the Chief or any officer of the Police Department.
   (H)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect from
and after its passage by the City Council and after its publication in the
official newspaper of the City. Ordinance 63.01 was published on 6-19-1992.
Ordinance 63.03 was published on 10-10-1993.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-1-1979; Ord. 63.01, passed 6-1-1992; Ord. 63.02, passed 3-
2-1993 Ord. 63.03, passed 10-4-1993)
§ 114.09 RESTRICTION ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place or
place of business unless he or she has a license to sell liquor on-sale or a
permit from the Liquor Control Director under M.S. Ch. 340A, as may be amended
from time to time, and no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-1-1979) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.10 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   The Council may suspend for not to exceed 60 days or revoke any liquor
license upon a finding that the licensee has failed to comply with any
applicable statute, regulation or ordinance relating to intoxicating liquor. No
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
the opportunity for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-1-1979)
§ 114.11 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   All provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as may be amended from time to time,
relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption, sales, conditions
of bonds of licensees, hours of sale and all other matters pertaining to the
resale, distribution and consumption of intoxicating liquor not set out in the
provisions of this subchapter are adopted and made a part of this subchapter as
if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 63, passed 10-1-1979)
NON-INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 114.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEER or NON-INTOXICATING MALT LIQUOR. Any malt beverage with an alcoholic
content of more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume and not to exceed 3.5% of
alcohol by weight, the sale of which is authorized under the laws of the State
of Minnesota and of the United States.
   BONA FIDE CLUB. Any club organized for business or social purposes, or the
promotion of sports, where the serving of such liquors is incidental and is not
the major purpose of the club.
   CAFÉ or RESTAURANT. Any place serving meals or lunches to the public.
   HOTEL. Any establishment having a resident proprietor or manager, where, in
consideration of payment therefor, food and lodging are regularly furnished to
transients and which maintains not less than ten guest rooms with bedding and
other usual suitable and necessary furnishings in each room, and which is
provided with a suitable lobby, desk and office for the registration of its
guests at the main entrance on the ground floor, and which employs an adequate
staff to provide suitable and usual service,  and which maintains under the
same management and control as the rest of the establishment and has, as an
integral part thereof, a dining room with appropriate facilities for seating
not less than 30 guests at one time where the general public are, in
consideration of payment therefor, served with meals at tables.
   ORIGINAL PACKAGE. The bottled or sealed container in which the liquor is
placed at the time of manufacture.
   SALE and SOLD. All barters, and all manners or means of furnishing non-
intoxicating malt liquor or beer as above described in violation or evasion of
the law.
   TEMPORARILY. For a period of time not more than 30 days.
(Ord. 2, passed 11-4-1946; Ord. 2.1, passed 7-25-1977)
§ 114.26 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell, deal in, or keep for sale any beer or non-intoxicating
malt liquor within the village, now city, without first securing a license
therefor, as hereinafter provided; there may be three types of licenses issued
for the sale of beer or non-intoxicating malt liquor as defined as follows:
   (A)   On sale licenses shall be granted only to drug stores, cafes,
restaurants, hotels and bona fide clubs and establishments for the sale of non-
intoxicating malt beverages, cigars, cigarettes, all forms of tobacco,
beverages and soft drinks at retail; provided that no manufacturer or
wholesaler of such non-intoxicating malt liquor shall have any ownership, in
whole or in part, in the business of any licensee holding an on sale license.
   (B)   Off sale licenses may be granted to permit the sale at retail and
wholesale of non-intoxicating malt beverages in the original package for
removal from and consumption off the premises only.
   (C)   Temporary on sale licenses may also be issued to clubs, or charitable,
religious, or non-profit organizations for special events.
(Ord. 2, passed 11-4-1946; Ord. 2.1, passed 7-25-1977) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.27 APPLICATIONS.
   Applications for licenses shall be made to the City Council on forms
obtained from the City Clerk, and shall set forth the name of the applicant,
his or her age, representations as to his or her character with such references
as may be required, whether he or she is a citizen, the location where such
business is to be carried on, whether the application is for “on sale”, “off
sale”, or “temporary on sale” licenses, and such other information as may be
required from time to time.
(Ord. 2, passed 11-4-1946; Ord. 2.1, passed 7-25-1977)
§ 114.28 FEES.
   Application shall be accompanied by the required annual fee for such
license, such amount to be refunded if the license is not granted. Fees shall
be:
   (A)   For an “on sale” license $150 per year except that the fee for an on
sale license to established bona fide clubs shall be $75 per year.
   (B)   For an “off sale” license $25. All licenses shall expire on the last
day of September in each year. If eight months of any licensing year have
elapsed, the fee may be reduced to one-half the annual fee.
   (C)   For a “temporary on sale” license $10 per event.
(Ord. 2, passed 11-4-1946; Ord. 2.1, passed 7-27-1977)
§ 114.29 GRANTING LICENSE.
   The Council shall cause an investigation to be made of all the facts set
forth in the application, and after such investigation may grant or refuse such
license in its discretion.
(Ord. 2, passed 11-4-1946)
§ 114.30 CONDITIONS OF LICENSES.
   Licenses granted hereunder shall be subject to the following conditions, and
to all other conditions of this subchapter and other ordinances of the city
applicable thereto:
   (A)   No license shall be granted to any person under 21 years of age, or
who has been convicted of a felony, or of violating any law of the state, or
ordinance, relating to the manufacture, sale or transportation of intoxicating
liquors.
   (B)   No license shall be granted to any licensee who has been convicted of
a violation of this subchapter, or whose license has been revoked for cause,
for at least one year after such conviction or revocation.
   (C)   No license excluding temporary on sale shall be granted for sale on
any premises not equipment with running water and sewage disposal facilities,
and not having available rest rooms and toilet accessories.
   (D)   All premises shall be open to inspection by any municipal officer at
any time during business hours.
   (E)   Licenses shall be granted for the premises described in the
application and to the applicant only, and shall not be transferred to another
place without the consent of the City Council.
   (F)   No “on sale” license shall be granted within 600 feet of any school,
or within 300 feet of any church, excluding “temporary on sale” license.
   (G)   Licenses shall be granted only to persons of good moral character who
are citizens of the United States, and the State of Minnesota.
   (H)   No license shall be issued to any person who is also the owner and
holder of, or to whom there is hereafter issued, a federal retail liquor
dealer’s special tax stamp for the sale of intoxicating liquor at any place
unless there has also been issued to such person a license to sell intoxicating
liquor pursuant to the laws of this state at such place; and the non-
intoxicating malt liquor license of any person who is also the owner and holder
of or to whom there is hereafter issued, such federal retail liquor dealer’s
special tax stamp, and who does not have a license to sell intoxicating liquors
pursuant to the laws of this State for such place, shall be forthwith revoked
by the City Council, without notice and without a hearing on such revocation.
   (I)   For “temporary on-sale” licenses the following additional conditions
shall apply:
      (1)   For any “temporary on-sale” licenses, the licensee must provide
general liability insurance coverage for bodily injury of $300,000 each
occurrence and $300,000 in aggregate, property damage liability of $10,000 each
occurrence and $25,000 in aggregate, and $150,000 host liability.
      (2)   Licenses must provide clean-up for all public lands upon which any
activity of any licensee is permitted.
      (3)   The licensee may also be required to pay the costs of any
additional police protection required as a result of the activities planned
and/or the issuance of a temporary on-sale license.
(Ord. 2, passed 11-4-1946; Ord. 2.1, passed 7-25-1977) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.31 PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall he unlawful for any licensee or any employee of a licensee:
      (1)   To sell, give, or in any manner furnish beer or non-intoxicating
malt liquor to any minor or to any intoxicated person;
      (2)   To permit any loud, boisterous or disorderly conduct on the
premises; or
      (3)   To sell non-intoxicating liquor, containing not more than 3.2%
alcohol by weight, while holding or exhibiting in a place of business a federal
retail liquor dealer’s special tax stamp, without having an intoxicating liquor
license under the laws of Minnesota.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any:
      (1)   Licensee or his or her employee to sell or serve non-intoxicating
malt liquor of more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume to any minor or to permit
any minor to consume the non-intoxicating malt liquor on the licensed premises
unless accompanied by his or her parent or legal guardian;
      (2)   Person other than the parent or legal guardian to procure the non-
intoxicating malt liquor for any minor;
      (3)   Person to induce a minor to purchase or procure non-intoxicating
malt liquor of more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume;
      (4)   Minor to misrepresent his or her age for the purpose of obtaining
the non-intoxicating malt liquor; and
      (5)   Minor to have in his or her possession any non-intoxicating malt
liquor, with intent to consume the same at a place other than the household of
his or her parent or guardian.
(Ord. 2, passed 11-4-1946; Ord. 24, passed 10-17-1955; Ord. 2.1, passed 7-25-
1977) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.32 HOURS.
   No sale of beer or other non-intoxicating malt liquor shall be made on any
day between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m., except on any Sunday no such
sales shall be made between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon.
(Ord. 2, passed 11-4-1946; Ord. 2.1, passed 7-25-1977; Ord. 2.1, passed 12-10-
1984) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.33 CLUBS.
   No club shall sell such liquor except to members and guests of members.
(Ord. 2, passed 11-4-1946) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.34 NO PARTITION.
   No partition, screen, curtain, or other device shall obstruct the view of
any part of any room wherein such liquors are sold, provided, that partitions
or panels not higher than 60 inches for enclosing booths may be permitted; and
provided further, that such license shall entitle the holder to serve such
liquors in any separate room used for banquets or dinner parties at which not
less than six persons are present.
(Ord. 2, passed 11-4-1946) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.35 REVOCATION.
   Any license granted hereunder may be revoked by the Village Council; a
hearing shall first be held by the Council and the revocation then made for
cause. A majority vote of the Village Council shall be sufficient for such
revocation. No portion of the license fee paid into the village treasury shall
be returned upon revocation, cancellation or discontinuance of the business for
which such license fee was paid.
(Ord. 2, passed 11-4-1946)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
114.25 through
114.35, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not more than
$100 or be imprisoned in the County Jail for not more than 90 days.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of §
114.31(B) shall be punished by a fine of not exceeding $100 or by imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 90 days.
(Ord. 2, passed 11-4-1946; Ord. 24, passed 10-19-1955)
CHAPTER 115: AMUSEMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Bingo and gambling
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 BINGO AND GAMBLING.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to closely regulate, control
and to prohibit commercialization of gambling.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACTIVE MEMBER. A member of the organization requesting a license whose
dues are paid for the current membership period and who has been a member for
at least six months.
      BINGO. A game where each player has a card or board for which a
consideration has been paid, containing five horizontal rows of spaces, with
each row except the central one containing five figures. The central, row has
four figures with the word “free” marked in the center space thereof. A player
wins a game of bingo by completing any pre-announced combination of spaces or,
in the absence of a pre-announcement of a combination of spaces, any
combination of five spaces in a row, either vertical, horizontal or diagonal.
      BINGO or GAMBLING ACTIVITY. A single gathering, session or occasion at
which a series of one or more successive bingo games is played or at which
gambling devices are operated or a raffle is conducted.
      ELIGIBLE ORGANIZATION. Any fraternal, religious, veterans or other
nonprofit organization which has been in existence for at least three years and
has at least 30 active members.
      GAMBLING DEVICES. By those devices known as paddle wheels, or tip boards,
or apparatus used in conducting raffles.
      PADDLE WHEEL. A wheel marked off into sections containing one or more
numbers, and which, after being turned or spun, uses a pointer or marker to
indicate winning chances.
      PROFIT. The gross receipts collected from one or more bingo occasions or
from the operation of gambling devices and the conduct of raffles, less
reasonable sums necessarily and actually expended for bingo supplies and
equipment, prizes, rent and utilities used during the bingo occasions and the
maintenance costs for the devices, local license fees and compensation to
persons lawfully hired to conduct or assist in conducting the bingo occasion.
      RAFFLE. A game in which a participant buys a ticket for a chance at a
prize with the winner determined by random drawing.
      TIP BOARD. A board, placard or other device measuring at least 12 inches
square, marked off in a grid or similar pattern, in which each section contains
a hidden number or numbers, or other symbols, which determine the winning
chances.
   (C)   License required.
      (1)   No bingo occasion shall be conducted except by an eligible
organization nor shall any person directly or indirectly operate a gambling
device or conduct a raffle without first obtaining a license for that purpose,
as provided in this chapter.
      (2)   Licenses may be obtained for periods of one year or on a per
occasion basis.
      (3)   Applications for licenses may not be issued until at least 30 days
from the date of application and shall be acted upon by the Council within 60
days from the date of application therefore.
      (4)   No bingo license issued may be transferred to any other person or
organization, No bingo license shall be transferred to any location other than
the location specified in the license, without prior approval by the Council.
   (D)   License eligibility. A license shall be issued only to fraternal,
religious, veterans organizations or other non-profit organizations, except
that a gambling license may be issued to any corporation, trust or association
organized for exclusively scientific, literary, charitable, educational or
artistic purposes or any club which is organized and operated exclusively for
pleasure or recreation. The organization must have been in existence for at
least three years and shall have at least 30 active members.
   (E)   License applications. Every application for a bingo license shall be
made to the City Administrator on a form supplied by the city and containing
information as the Administrator or Council may require. No person shall make a
false statement in an application. Copies of each application shall be referred
to the city’s Police Chief, Fire Chief and Building Inspector, for their
recommendations.
   (F)   Suspension or revocation. The Council may suspend, for a period as it
deems appropriate, or revoke, any license granted under this chapter for
violation of any provisions of M.S. Chs. 349 and 507, as may be amended from
time to time, or this chapter.
   (G)   Conduct of bingo.
      (1)   Each licensed organization shall appoint a manager to supervise
bingo occasions or gambling activity conducted by it. The manager must be a
member of the licensed organization, with dues paid for the current membership
period, and must have been a member of the organization for at least two years.
The manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of $10,000 in favor of the
organization conditioned on the faithful performance of his or her duties.
Terms of the bond shall provide that notice shall be given in writing to the
City Council not less than 30 days prior to its cancellation, except that, the
fidelity bond requirement may be waived upon a unanimous vote of the Council in
favor thereof. Each bingo or gambling activity shall be conducted under the
supervision of the manager, who shall be responsible for the conduct of the
activities in compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances. No person
shall act as manager for more than one organization.
      (2)   One or more checkers shall be engaged for each bingo occasion. The
checkers shall be active members of the licensed organization or spouses of
active members of the licensed organization. The checker or checkers shall
record the number of cards purchased and played in each game prior to the
completion of each game and record the prizes awarded to the recorded cards.
Each checker shall certify all figures which he or she has recorded as accurate
and correct to the best of his or her knowledge, on forms prescribed by the
City Administrator.
      (3)   Additional persons may be engaged for other duties in connection
with bingo or gambling activities as needed, but no person shall assist in the
conduct of such who is not an active member of the licensed organization, or
the spouse of an active member of the licensed organization.
      (4)   No person shall receive more than $12 as compensation for any
duties in connection with any one bingo occasion; however, no compensation
shall be paid to any person in connection with the operation of a gambling
device or the conduct of a raffle by a licensed organization.
      (5)   No more than 104 bingo occasions each year or two bingo occasions
each week shall be conducted by any licensed organization; except that, the
Council may authorize up to three additional bingo occasions in any one week by
a four-fifths majority vote in favor thereof.
      (6)   A bingo occasion shall not continue for more than four consecutive
hours.
   (H)   Activities on leased premises.
      (1)   Any person, corporation or eligible organization, which leases any
premises that it owns to two or more eligible organizations for purposes
including the conduct of bingo occasions, shall not allow more than four bingo
occasions to be conducted on the premises in any week. Gambling devices shall
be operated and raffles conducted by licensed organizations only upon premises
which it owns or leases, except the tickets for raffles conducted in accordance
with this section may be sold off the premises.
      (2)   Any eligible organization which leases any premises to one or more
other eligible organizations for purposes including the conduct of bingo
occasions shall use the proceeds of the rental, less reasonable sums for
maintenance, furnishings and other necessary expenses only for the uses for
which bingo profits may be used, as set out in division (A) above. Not less
than once each year the lessor organization shall report to the City Council
the disposition of all receipts which it has received during the reporting
period from the-rental of its facilities to other organizations for purposes
including the conduct of bingo occasion.
      (3)   No eligible organization shall conduct bingo on any leased premises
without a written lease for a term at least equal to the remainder of the term
of the bingo license of the lessee organization. Lease payments shall be at a
fixed monthly rate, or rate per bingo occasion, not subject to change during
the term of the lease. No lease shall provide that rental payments be based on
a percentage of receipts or profits from bingo occasion.
   (I)   Prizes.
      (1)   Prizes for a single bingo game shall not exceed $100, except prizes
for a game of the type commonly known as a “cover-all” game. “Cover-all” prizes
may exceed $100 provided that the aggregate value of such prizes for a bingo
occasion shall not exceed $500. The aggregate value of prizes for a bingo
occasion shall not exceed $2,500; except that, in the case of a bingo occasion
during which a “cover-all” game is played for a maximum prize of more than
$100, but less than $500, the aggregate value of prizes for the bingo occasion
shall not exceed $3,000. Merchandise prizes shall be valued at fair market
retail value.
      (2)   Each bingo winner shall be determined and every prize shall be
awarded and delivered the same day on which the bingo occasion is conducted.
      (3)   Total prizes from the operation of paddle wheels and tip boards
awarded in any single day in which they are operated shall not exceed $500.
Total prizes resulting from any single spin of a paddle wheel, or from any
single tip board, shall not exceed $100. Total prizes awarded in any calendar
year by any organization from the operation of paddle wheels and tip boards and
the conduct of raffles shall not exceed $1,500.
   (J)   Records.
      (1)   Each licensed organization shall keep records of its gross receipts
and profits for each bingo or gambling activity. All deductions from gross
receipts for an activity shall be documented with receipts or other records.
The distribution of profits shall be itemized as to payee, amount and date of
payment. Records required by this section shall be preserved for three years
and shall be open for public inspection at reasonable times and places.
      (2)   Gross receipts shall be compared to the checkers’ records for the
bingo occasion by a person who did not sell cards for the bingo occasion. If a
discrepancy exceeding $20 is found between the amount of gross receipts for a
bingo occasion as determined by the checkers’ records and the amount of gross
receipts as determined by totaling the cash receipts, the discrepancy shall be
reported to and investigated by the Council.
      (3)   Bingo and gambling gross receipts shall be segregated from other
revenues of an organization and from each other and placed in separate
accounts. Each organization shall maintain separate records of each operation.
The person who accounts for bingo or gambling gross receipts and profits shall
not be the same person who accounts for other revenues of the licensed
organization.
   (K)   Reports.
      (1)   Each licensed organization shall report in each month bingo or
gambling activities conducted to its membership its gross receipts from the
activities, its profits and the distribution of those profits itemized as
required by division (J) above.
      (2)   At the time of making its first license application under this
chapter, and on an annual basis thereafter, each licensed organization shall
file with the Council copies of the following:
         (a)   The most recently filed Department of the Treasury, Internal
Revenue Service, “Return of Organization Exempt from Income Tax,” Form 990, or
a comparable form if the organization is required to file the form with the
Department of the Treasury;
         (b)   The most recently filed Department of the Treasury, Internal
Revenue Service, “Exempt Organization Business Income Tax,” Form 990-T, or a
comparable form if the organization is required to file the form with the
Department of the Treasury;
         (c)   The most recently filed annual report required of charitable
organizations by M.S. § 309.53, as may be amended from time to time; provided
that, an organization that is licensed to conduct bingo, but is exempt from
submitting this report to the Department of Commerce under M.S. § 309.53, Subd.
1a, as may be amended from time to time, shall nevertheless submit such a
report under this division;
         (d)   The most recently filed State Department of Commerce “Statement
of Bingo Operations.” All information contained in the statement shall be true,
correct and complete to the best of the knowledge of the person or persons
signing the statement; and
         (e)   Any lease agreements required by this act, executed by the
organization in regard to premises leased for the conduct of bingo.
      (3)   No person shall knowingly make a false statement in any report
required by this section.
   (L)   Inspection and investigation. Any city official or employee, having a
duty to perform with reference to a bingo license, and any police officer may
inspect and with reference to a bingo license, and any police officer may
inspect and examine the records of any licensed organization upon 24 hours’
notice.
   (M)   Use of bingo or gambling receipts. No expense shall be incurred or
amounts paid in connection with the conduct of bingo or gambling, except those
reasonable expended for supplies and equipment, prizes, rent or utilities used
during the activities, license fees and compensation to a person lawfully hired
to conduct or assist in conducting a bingo occasion.
   (N)   Use of bingo or gambling profits.
      (1)   Profits from any bingo or gambling activity shall be expended only
as authorized by a resolution recorded in the official minutes at a regular
meeting of the licensed organization and only for one or more of the following
purposes:
         (a)   Benefitting persons by enhancing their opportunity for religious
or education advancement, by relieving or protecting them from disease,
suffering, or distress, by contributing to their physical well-being, by
assisting them in establishing themselves in life as worthy and useful
citizens, or by increasing their comprehension of and devotion to the
principles upon which this nation was founded;
         (b)   Initiating, performing or fostering worthy public works or
enabling or furthering the erection or maintenance of public structures;
         (c)   Lessening the burdens borne by government of voluntarily
supporting, augmenting or supplementing services which government would
normally render to the people; and
         (d)   The improving, expanding, maintaining or repairing of real
property owned or leased by the licensed organization.
      (2)   Profits from bingo occasions shall not be expended for the erection
or acquisition of any real property, unless the City Council specifically
authorizes the expenditures after finding that the property will be used
exclusively for one or more of the purposes specified in this section.
   (O)   Exemptions. Bingo may be conducted without complying with the
requirements of divisions (G)(5), (6) and (H) if conducted by an organization
that conducts fewer than five bingo occasions in any calendar year.
(Ord. 62, passed 6-11-1979; Ord. 62.10, passed 7-9-1984) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 116: FOOD TRUCKS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Definition
   
116.03   License required
   
116.04   License issuance fee and display
   
116.05   Indemnification
   
116.06   Restrictions
   
116.07   Forfeiture and revocation
 
   
116.99   Penalty
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the operations of food trucks
within the city.
(Ord. 2016-01B, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 116.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD TRUCK. A self-contained mobile vehicle or trailer food vending
operation used for the purpose of selling and serving prepared food and/or non-
alcoholic drink to be consumed while parked and operating anywhere within the
city limits. It shall be self-powered, i.e. no electrical cord(s) shall be laid
across any city street or sidewalk. The vehicle shall not be left on city
property after the daily hours of operation.
(Ord. 2016-01B, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 116.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a food truck without a license from
the city. A license is valid for only one food truck. Each separate food truck
needs to have its own separate license. Operations meeting the definition of a
food truck and operating under a valid food truck license do not need a
solicitor's permit under Ch. 113 of the city code.
(Ord. 2016-01B, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 116.04 LICENSE ISSUANCE FEE AND DISPLAY.
   License(s), including number and dates for which issued, shall be plainly
visible on the outside of the food truck, a copy of which must be kept with the
food truck at all times. Licenses may be issued on an annual or per event
basis. An application on the form prescribed by the city shall be completed by
the applicant and shall be accompanied by a fee as established by the City
Council in the master fee schedule. Such fee shall not be refundable if the
permit is denied or the applicant withdraws or otherwise ceases operation or
use of the permit.
(Ord. 2016-01B, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 116.05 INDEMNIFICATION.
   Before a food truck license is issued by the city, the licensee shall
execute and deliver to the City Administrator or his/her designee, on a form
prescribed by the city, an indemnification agreement holding the city harmless
for any personal injury or property damage resulting from operation of the food
truck. The licensee shall also provide the city with a copy of the licensee's
current requisite vehicle insurance that covers said food truck.
(Ord. 2016-01B, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 116.06 RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   With the permit application, the applicant shall provide written proof
that the applicant is the current holder of all license(s) required by the
State of Minnesota and/or Winona County, as applicable, with respect to a food
truck in which food is prepared and served in a vehicle or trailer, and the
vendor shall maintain such license(s) in good standing for the duration of the
permit. If the applicable license(s) expires or is revoked during the term of
the city's food truck license, the licensee agrees to cease operation
immediately and not resume operation until such time as a valid food handling
license is obtained and proof thereof provided to the city.
   (B)   The vendor shall comply with all other applicable provisions of the
city code including, but not limited to, those regulations regarding parking,
signing, lighting, noise, and noxious fumes/odors (i.e.; from a generator).
   (C)   Radios and other audio devices shall be permitted only inside the food
truck. No amplification device shall be permitted on the exterior of any food
truck.
   (D)   No food shall be sold except directly from the food truck.
   (E)   Food trucks shall be allowed only at approved locations within the
city, and shall not travel from point to point around the city, unless
specifically authorized to do so by Council action.
   (F)   At the time of application the city will provide the applicant with a
listing of permitted public locations (subject to change) a food truck may
operate, and it shall be a violation of this chapter for any vendor to engage
in vending operations in any location in the city other than the approved
locations, unless the City Administrator or his/her designee gives express
written permission to deviate from the pre-approved locations.
   (G)   The vendor must provide and remove trash and recycling receptacles for
customer use and keep the site in a neat and orderly fashion. The permitted
location(s) must be kept free from litter, refuse, debris, junk or other waste
which results in offensive odors or unsightly conditions. The vendor shall be
responsible for all litter and garbage left by customers.
   (H)   The food truck may not block sidewalks or driveways, impede pedestrian
or vehicular traffic, or interfere with public safety. The food truck also may
not be parked within 50 feet of an intersection of two or more public streets,
or within 20 feet of a driveway entering a public street.
   (I)   Food truck sales shall be permitted only between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. (subject to change), unless the City Council gives express
permission to deviate from these hours.
   (J)   All food trucks shall be kept in good repair and order and shall have
a neat appearance.
   (K)   There shall be no drainage of liquids allowed from the food truck onto
public property.
   (L)   A person operating a food truck may apply for and receive an annual
license for different sites in the city at various times throughout the license
period, provided that the food truck is only operated in one site at a time.
   (M)   No food truck may be located within 200 feet at its closest point to
the main entrance of a public eating establishment or any outdoor dining area
with the exception of other food trucks and except with the written consent of
the proprietor of the establishment or dining area. No person shall either pay
or accept payment for such written consent. With the permit application, the
applicant shall provide written permission from the proprietor when applicable.
   (N)   No food truck may be located within 300 feet at its closest point to a
school while the school is in session unless written permission from the school
principal is obtained. With the permit application, the applicant shall provide
written permission from the principal when applicable.
(Ord. 2016-01B, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 116.07 FORFEITURE AND REVOCATION.
   A food truck license may be immediately revoked or forfeited for violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter or any other violation of the city
code or other applicable laws and regulations. Food truck licenses are not
transferable.
(Ord. 2016-01B, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 116.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of
a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $1,000 or
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, plus the costs of prosecution
in either case.
(Ord. 2016-01B, passed 9-12-2016)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   WEAPONS; FIREARMS
      
132.   MINORS; CURFEW
      
133.   TRESPASS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Criminal Code Adopted
   
130.01   Criminal Code adopted
General Provisions
   
130.15   Public urination and defecation prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED
§ 130.01 CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   All those provisions of the Criminal Code of 1963, M.S. Ch. 609, as
may be amended from time to time, and in effect on 11-4-1972, which define
offenses constituting misdemeanors or define offenses punishable by penalties
of a fine of not to exceed $300, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a
period of not to exceed 90 days, or both, are hereby adopted as an ordinance
regulating conduct within the city, and are hereby incorporated in and made a
part of this section as completely as if set out in full herein.
   (B)   This provision shall take effect on the day following its publication
in the official city newspaper. The ordinance codified herein was published on
11-3-1972.
(Ord. 54, passed 10-2-1972) Penalty, see §
130.99
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.15 PUBLIC URINATION AND DEFECATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Any person who urinates or defecates on any public street, alley,
sidewalk or floor of any public building or of any building where the public
gathers or has access, or in any other place, whether public or private, where
such act could be observed by any member of the public, except in such place
that has been designated as a restroom is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   This section shall take effect from and after its passage by the City
Council and its publication in the official newspaper of the city.
(Ord. 92, passed 12-7-2009)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of the statutes adopted by reference in §
130.01 is a violation of §
130.01 when it occurs within the city. Any person thus violating any provision
of §
130.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not
to exceed $300, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period of not to
exceed 90 days, or both; but, if a minimum or maximum fine or imprisonment is
prescribed by the Criminal Code of 1963 for such an offense, the penalty shall
apply to a person convicted of the same offense under §
130.01, subject to the foregoing limits.
(Ord. 54, passed 10-2-1972)
CHAPTER 131: WEAPONS; FIREARMS
Section
   
131.01   Regulations
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 REGULATIONS.
   No person shall carry or discharge firearms or air rifles and pistol in the
village, provided, that duly constituted law enforcement officials or duly
licensed or empowered individuals are not prohibited from carrying or
discharging firearms as permitted by their authority or license, and provided
further, that duly organized gun clubs of ten or more members, which were
established at the tine of incorporation of the village and which have since
been conducting trap shooting on their own premises within the village, are not
prohibited from conducting trap shooting on the premises in compliance with the
law and in a manner as not to commit nuisance.
(Ord. 13, passed 11-15-1948) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be liable to a fine
of not more than $100, or to imprisonment for a term of not more than 30 days.
(Ord. 13, passed 11-15-1948)
CHAPTER 132: MINORS; CURFEW
Section
General Provisions
   
132.01   Loitering of minors prohibited
   
132.02   Responsibility of parents
   
132.03   Responsibility of any person, firm or corporation operating or in
charge of any place of amusement
Social Host Provisions
   
132.15   Purpose
   
132.16   Definitions
   
132.17   Prohibited acts
   
132.18   Exceptions
   
132.19   Enforcement
   
132.20   Effective date
 
   
132.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 132.01 LOITERING OF MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 17 years to loiter,
idle, wander, stroll or play in or upon the public streets, highways, roads,
alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places, public
buildings, places of amusement and entertainment, vacant lots or other
unsupervised places open to the public between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. the following day, without reasonable excuse, unless the minor is
accompanied by his or her parents, guardian or other adult person having direct
care and custody of the minor.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-2-1969) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for the parents, guardian or other adult person having
direct care and custody of a minor under the age of 17 years to permit the
minor to violate the provisions of this chapter, provided, however, that the
provisions of this chapter shall not apply unless the Village Marshal or the
Sheriff has notified the parents, guardian or other adult person having direct
care and custody of the minor in writing or in person, of a prior violation of
this chapter committed by the minor.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-2-1969) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF ANY PERSON, FIRM OR CORPORATION OPERATING OR IN
CHARGE OF ANY PLACE OF AMUSEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation operating or in
charge of any place of amusement, entertainment or refreshment to permit any
minor under the age of 17 years to enter or remain in that place during the
hours prohibited by this chapter, provided, however, that the provisions of
this chapter shall not apply when the minor is accompanied by his or her
parents, guardian or other adult person having direct care and custody of the
minor.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-2-1969) Penalty, see §
132.99
SOCIAL HOST PROVISIONS
§ 132.15 PURPOSE.
   The City Council intends to discourage underage possession and consumption
of alcohol, even if done within the confines of a private residence, and
intends to hold persons criminally responsible who host events or gatherings
where persons under 21 years of age possess or consume alcohol regardless of
whether the person hosting the event or gathering supplied the alcohol. The
City Council finds that:
   (A)   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where alcohol
is possessed or consumed by persons under the age of 21 are harmful to those
persons and constitute a potential threat to public health requiring prevention
or abatement.
   (B)   Prohibiting underage consumption acts to protect underage persons, as
well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol consumption, such
as alcohol overdoses or alcohol related traffic collisions.
   (C)   Alcohol is an addictive drug which, if used irresponsibly, could have
drastic effects on those who use it as well as those who are affected by the
actions of an irresponsible user.
   (D)   Often, events or gatherings involving underage possession and
consumption occur outside the presence of parents. However, there are times
when the parent(s) is/are present, and condone the activity, and in some
circumstances provide the alcohol.
   (E)   Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to an underage person is a
crime, it is difficult to prove, and an ordinance is necessary to help further
combat underage consumption.
   (F)   A deterrent effect will be created by holding a person criminally
responsible for hosting an event or gathering where underage possession or
consumption occurs.
(Ord. 94, passed 6-7-2010)
Cross-reference:
   Purchase, consumption and possession of non-intoxicating malt liquor by
minors, see §
114.31
§ 132.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains one-
half of 1% or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes
either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances.
   EVENT or GATHERING. Any group of two or more persons who have assembled or
gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
   HOST. To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit a gathering or event.
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile and shall include the
following: natural parent, adoptive parent, stepparent, legal guardian, or a
person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the court.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation, or any
association of one or more individuals.
   RESIDENCE or PREMISES. Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting
room, park, or any other place of assembly,  public or private, whether
occupied on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
   UNDERAGE PERSON. Any individual under 21 years of age.
(Ord. 94, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 132.17 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to host or allow any event or gathering
at any residence, premises, or on any other private or public property, where
alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present, when the person knows or reasonably
should know that an underage person will or does (1) consume any alcohol or
alcoholic beverage or (2) possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the
intent to consume it and the person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent
possession or consumption by the underage person.
   (B)   A person is criminally responsible for violating division (A) above if
the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, or conspires with or
otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
   (C)   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be present
at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
(Ord. 94, passed 6-7-2010) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.18 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents while present in the parents’ household.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to legally protected religious
observances.
   (C)   This subchapter shall not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2%
malt liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores, or bottle club permit holders
(regulated by M.S. § 340A.414, as may be amended from time to time), all of
whom are regulated by M.S. § 340A.503, Subd. 1(a)(1), as may be amended from
time to time.
   (D)   This subchapter shall not apply to situations where underage persons
are lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course
and scope of employment.
(Ord. 94, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 132.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter can be enforced by any licensed police officer.
(Ord. 94, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 132.20 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect from and after its passage by the City
Council and its publication in the official newspaper of the city.
(Ord. 94, passed 6-7-2010)
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the
provisions of §§
132.01 through
132.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $300, or by imprisonment in the county jail
for a term not exceeding 90 days, or both. If the violator be a minor, he or
she shall be turned over to his or her parents, guardian or custodian of the
minor, or remain in the custody of the Village Marshal or other police officer
until the parents, guardian or custodian have been notified and have called for
the minor.
   (B)   A violation of §
132.17(A) is a misdemeanor charge, and shall be punished by a fine of not to
exceed $1,000, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed
90 days, or both.
(Ord. 48, passed 9-2-1969; Ord. 94, passed 6-7-2010)
CHAPTER 133: TRESPASS
Section
   
133.01   Trespassing prohibited
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 TRESPASSING PROHIBITED.
   Whoever intentionally does any of the following may be punished in
accordance with the provisions of §
133.99 below:
   (A)   Interferes unlawfully with any monument, sign or pointer erected or
marked to designate a point of a boundary line, street or a political
subdivision, or of a tract of land;
   (B)   Enters upon the premises of another and, without claim of right,
refuses to depart therefrom on demand of the lawful possessor thereof;
   (C)   Enters the premises of another with intent to take or injure or damage
the structures, buildings, machinery, equipment, supplies, trees, shrubbery,
fruit or vegetables growing on that premises without the permission of the
owner or occupant thereof; and/or
   (D)   Without the permission of the owner, tampers with, or gets into or
upon a motor vehicle, or rides in or upon the motor vehicle knowing it was
taken and is being driven by the person or another without the permission of
the owner.
(Ord. 49, passed 9-2-1969) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall commit an act of trespass as hereinabove defined in
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $300 or by imprisonment in the county
jail for a term not exceeding 90 days or both.
(Ord. 49, passed 9-2-1969)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   SIGNS
      
152.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
   
150.01   State Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Placement of structures on water
   
150.03   House and building numbering
 
   
150.99   Penalty
§ 150.01 STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Codes adopted by reference. The State Building Code, as adopted by the
Commissioner of Labor and Industry pursuant to M.S. Ch. 326B, as may be amended
from time to time, rules and regulations established, adopted and published
from time to time by the State Commissioner of Labor and Industry, through the
Construction Codes and Licensing Division, is hereby adopted by reference with
the exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically adopted in this
section. The State Building Code is hereby incorporated in this section as if
fully set out herein.
   (B)   Application, administration and enforcement. The application,
administration and enforcement of the Code shall be in accordance with the
State Building Code. The Code enforcement agency of this municipality is called
the City Building Department. This Code shall be enforced by the state-
certified Building Official designated by the city to administer the Code (M.S.
§ 326B.133, Subd. 1, as may be amended from time to time).
   (C)   Permits and fees. The issuance of permits and the collection of fees
shall be as authorized in Minn. Rule Ch. 1300. Permit fees shall be assessed
for work governed by this Code in accordance with the fee schedule adopted by
the municipality in Ord. 86.3. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected
on all permits issued for work governed by this Code in accordance with M.S. §
326B.148, as may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Effective date. The effective date of this section is 4-1-2009. The
ordinance codified herein was published on 12-18-2008.
(Ord. 89, passed - -2008) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 PLACEMENT OF STRUCTURES ON WATER.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED PROPERTY. Any kind of personal property the owner of which
cannot be found after a reasonable effort is made by the city. The term also
means any kind of personal property the owner of which is or becomes known, and
who, after receiving written notice to remove it within a reasonable time,
refuses to remove it or does not remove it within the time stated.
      CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The person appointed by the City Council to act as
City Administrator or his or her designated representative.
      CITY LAND. Land owned, possessed or controlled by the city. Land which
the city has licensed to another party. Land on which the city has an easement.
      FAMILY UNIT. A single person, a single person with children living at
home, a married couple or a married couple with children living at home.
      LAKE. Those waters within the corporate limits of the city constituting
its lakes and wetlands.
      RUBBISH. Any waste material, refuse, garbage, human excrement or matter
that appears to be discarded.
      SANITARY FACILITY. As per state regulations.
      STRUCTURE.
         (a)   A boathouse, boat garage or similar shelter:
            1.   Built for use or used on the water;
            2.   Without motive power to propel it on, in or through the water;
and
            3.   Used for storage of boats and/or personal property and/or
human habitation.
         (b)   The term also includes a boat slip, buildings, trailers or any
object or material used to shelter a person or the personal property of a
person and which is placed on land or water in the same location for a period
longer than 24 consecutive hours. A STRUCTURE is not:
            1.   A boat, except when it is moored to land for over 24
consecutive hours;
            2.   A fishing shack or house placed on natural ice over water; or
            3.   Something erected by the city, the state, the United States of
America or a public utility.
   (B)   General regulations for lake and water areas. No person shall moor to
or tie to or place on lake water areas any structure unless licensed to do so
by the city or unless the use is permitted by special agreement between the
city and the user.
      (1)   No person shall moor to or tie to or place on any land in the lake
water area any structure or boat which will interfere with navigation on the
waters or which will unreasonably expose any person to danger or be contrary to
the laws of the United States of America, the state or the ordinances contained
in this code of ordinances.
      (2)   No person shall throw, drop, deposit, bury or leave any rubbish in
the water or on or in the land.
      (3)   No person shall fail to keep a structure securely fastened to the
land. The structure shall be so fastened that it will float freely at any time,
except when frozen into the ice and will be so fastened that it can be detached
without destruction of its parts.
      (4)   No person shall abandon personal property in the lake water area.
If property is so abandoned, the City Administrator may dispose of it as is
seen fit, may charge the costs incurred to the person who abandoned it and may
cause suit to be brought against the person for the recovery of the costs.
Money received by the city on disposal in excess of the costs of removal shall
be held by the city. If no claim is made of the monies within one year after
receipt, the same shall become the property of the city and shall be placed in
its General Fund.
      (5)   No person licensed to occupy a space shall move from that space
without first notifying the City Administrator.
      (6)   No person shall have more than one neat firewood pile.
      (7)   No person shall occupy or use a structure for human habitation
unless it is equipped with a sanitary facility.
   (C)   Special regulations for licensed areas.
      (1)   An application for a license shall be made to the city in writing.
It shall state the name and address of the applicant, a description of the
structure and other information as the city may from time to time require.
      (2)   A license shall be in writing and shall be signed by a
representative of the city and by the licensee.
      (3)   A license shall contain the following information and such other
information as the city may determine is necessary, the name and address of the
licensee, the license location, a license number, the term and fee and the
following statement:
      “The licensee agrees to keep the licensed area assigned in a reasonably
clean, sanitary and safe condition; to remove rubbish from the property not
less often than weekly; to comply with the ordinances and regulations of the
city; to display a current license number in a prominent place on the structure
visible from the landward side; to keep the structure securely and safely
moored; to quit the licensed area promptly after revocation and termination of
his or her license and to remove all of his or her property within 30 days
after the revocation and termination; to pay the cost of removal of abandoned
property, or if the city pays for the removal of said property, to reimburse
the city for all costs incurred in the removal of abandoned property; to repair
any damage done to the real property; to assume responsibility for damages to
property or injuries to persons which may arise from or be incidental to the
exercise of the license or for damages to the property or injuries to the
person of the licensee, his or her officers, agents, service employees, guests
or family or others who may be on licensed area by invitation or the invitation
of any one of them, whether arising from activities of the city on the area or
otherwise; and the licensee shall hold the city harmless from any and all
claims by appearing in and defending any and all actions and paying and
satisfying all final judgments obtained.”
      (4)   All licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year. The term of a
license shall be for one year or a shorter term if the license is obtained
after July 1 of any year. A license fee, as set forth herein, shall be paid on
or before July 1. A license fee shall not be prorated nor be refundable. A
license shall be transferable only with the consent of the City Administrator.
A person who has been licensed to use a particular space, and who wishes to
secure a new license for that space, shall be given first priority.
      (5)   A licensee whose license is revoked shall not be granted a license
for a period of three years thereafter.
      (6)   No person shall use a structure to engage in business unless
licensed by the city to do so.
   (D)   Option to close mooring. The City Administrator may from time to time
recommend to the City Council that certain city land in the lake water areas be
closed to the mooring of a structure or structures. The City Council may close
an area effective upon the expiration of the current license term, if any, or
the City Council may, if it finds that a superior public use exists, close an
area on 120-days’ notice.
   (E)   Floating Structures Safety Code. The following shall be deemed to be
the Safety Code for floating structures in the city.
      (1)   All structures are required to be inspected initially by a
representative of the city to ensure compliance with the requirements of this
code.
      (2)   All structures shall have a gangway with a 30-inch minimum width
between the shore and structure. The gangway shall be maintained in a safe and
sound condition.
      (3)   All structures shall maintain house numbers of a minimum four-inch
height which contrast to their background on the shore side of the structure.
      (4)   All boathouses shall have a minimum of one Coast Guard approved
throwable personal flotation device.
      (5)   All structures shall have a minimum of one operable fire
extinguisher with a minimum rating of 2A 10BC.
      (6)   All habitable structures shall have smoke detectors and shall
maintain the detectors in operating condition.
      (7)   All heating and cooking appliances shall be installed and
maintained in a safe condition so as to prevent fires and carbon monoxide
poisoning.
      (8)   Electrical systems shall be maintained in a safe condition to
prevent fires and the potential of electrocution.
      (9)   All sleeping areas shall be provided with and maintain egress.
      (10)   Any violations or deficiencies noted during the safety inspection
shall be corrected within 15 days and reinspected unless a time extension has
been granted by the inspecting authority for just cause.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall take effect and be in force from
and after its passage and publication. The ordinance codified herein was
published 11-12-2002.
(Ord. 82, passed 11-4-2002) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 HOUSE AND BUILDING NUMBERING.
   (A)   Duty of owner. It shall be the duty of the owner, agent, lessor or
occupants of every house or other buildings except barns, garages and out
buildings which are part of the same property with a numbered house or other
building, to place on every house or other building the proper street number
either by affixing the numbers in metal, glass or other form or painting then,
as herein prescribed. The numbers shall be neat, not less than three inches in
height, and of a color as to be clearly legible from the sidewalk or the street
line and shall be located on each house or building in relatively the same
position, subject to the supervision of the Supervisor of Zoning. Numbers shall
be placed on the houses and other buildings within 30 days from the time the
owner, agent, lessor or occupant are notified either by mail, publication or
telephone or the assignment of numbers to the houses or other buildings as
hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Assignment of numbers. One hundred numbers shall be assigned to each
block, specific numbers to be assigned by the Supervisor of Zoning on the basis
of property frontage. Even numbers shall be used on the east and the north
sides of streets and odd numbers shall be used on the west and the south sides
of the streets, respectively.
   (C)   Duty of Supervisor of Zoning. It shall be the duty of the Supervisor
of Zoning to assign numbers, as hereinbefore provided, to every house or other
building provided in the village and to report the numbers assigned to the next
regular meeting of the Council. The Council shall accept and approve the same
by resolution with the revision and amendments as it deems necessary. It shall
be the duty of the City Administrator to notify the owners, agents, lessors or
occupants of the houses or other buildings numbered, either by mail,
publication or telephone, of the numbers assigned.
   (D)   Permit. Whenever any house or other buildings to be erected hereafter
a number shall be assigned at the time the building permit is granted and by
the city official granting the permit.
   (E)   Effective date. This section shall take effect and be in force from
and after its official passage and publication. The ordinance codified herein
was published on 5-29-1948.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-17-1948) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A violation of the code, as adopted in §
150.01, is a misdemeanor, according to M.S. § 326B.082, Subd. 16, as may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   Whoever shall fail to comply with the requirements of §
150.03 or shall affix to or display upon any house or building numbers other
than those assigned as above provided shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction therefor, shall be fined not more than $1,000 and/or up to 90
days in jail.
(Ord. 12, passed 5-17-1948; Ord. 89, passed - -2008)
CHAPTER 151: SIGNS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Permits and fees
   
151.03   Signs exempt from permit
   
151.04   Signs in D-1 Single-Family Dwelling Districts
   
151.05   Signs in D-2 and D-3 Multiple-Family Dwelling Districts
   
151.06   Signs in C-1, C-1R, M-1 and M-2 Zoning Districts
   
151.07   Billboards
   
151.08   Permit revocation
   
151.09   Nonconforming signs
   
151.10   Effective date
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the size, location and
maintenance of signs in the city so as to encourage visual communication by
providing orderly, effective and safe signage while retaining the individual
character of buildings and zoning districts.
(Ord. 83, passed - -2004)
§ 151.02 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Sign permits. No signs shall be erected, replaced or maintained
anywhere in the city without first obtaining a sign permit, except as otherwise
exempted in this chapter.
   (B)   Application, permit and fees. A formal application together with
accompanying information as prescribed by the city shall be submitted to the
City Zoning Administrator to obtain a sign permit. Permit fees shall be as
adopted by resolution of the City Council and shall accompany the application.
(Ord. 83, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.03 SIGNS EXEMPT FROM PERMIT.
   No permit shall be required under this chapter for the following types of
signs:
   (A)   Signs affixed to a building within a C-l, C-1R, M-l or M-2 zoning
district which do not exceed 32 square feet in area;
   (B)   Off-site church and school signs not exceeding four square feet in
area;
   (C)   On-site directional signs exclusively for traffic control purposes not
exceeding four square feet. The signs shall conform with the requirements of
the Uniform Traffic Control Devices Manual;
   (D)   Inside signs are allowed in C-l, C-1R, M-l and M-2 zoning districts
only. The signs if placed on the interior of a window or door with a glass
panel shall not exceed 50% of the window or door panel area;
   (E)   Political signs not exceeding 32 square feet in area are permitted on
private property only with the consent of the property owner and shall be
removed no later than seven days following the election to which they apply;
   (F)   Temporary construction signs are allowed in all zoning districts not
exceeding 32 square feet in area and shall be removed no later than 30 days
following the completion of the work to which they refer;
   (G)   Signs offering property for sale or lease not exceeding 32 square
feet. The signs shall be removed no later than 30 days following completion of
the sale or lease of the subject property; and
   (H)   Special event signs or banners. The signs or banners are permitted for
periods not exceeding 45 days.
(Ord. 83, passed - -2004)
§ 151.04 SIGNS IN D-1 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Occupant signs. Signs identifying the occupants of a home are
permitted not exceeding two square feet in area. No permit shall be required
for this type of sign.
   (B)   Business signs. Signs identifying the occupation or services offered
upon the premises are permitted only after obtaining a permit which shall
require City Council approval. The signs may not exceed four square feet in
total area, may only be affixed to the structure upon the premise and may not
be illuminated by artificial light.
   (C)   Subdivision identification signs. Signs identifying the name of a
residential subdivision are permitted after obtaining a permit therefore. The
signs shall not exceed 32 square feet in area, are limited to one per entrance
and may not exceed eight feet in height.
(Ord. 83, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.05 SIGNS IN D-2 AND D-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Occupant signs. Signs identifying the occupants of a dwelling are
permitted not exceeding two square feet in area. No permit shall be required
for this type of sign.
   (B)   Business sign. Signs identifying the occupation or services offered
upon the premises are permitted only after obtaining a permit which shall
require City Council approval. The signs may not exceed four square feet in
total area, may only be affixed to the structure upon the premise and may not
be illuminated by artificial light.
(Ord. 83, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.06 SIGNS IN C-1, C-1R, M-1 AND M-2 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following signs are permitted within a C-l, C-1R, M-l and M-
2 zoning district after first having obtained a permit therefore:
      (1)   Signs affixed to the building wall of the structure upon the lot.
The signs may not exceed 25% of the building wall upon which the sign is
attached or 672 square feet in area, whichever is less. The signs may be
illuminated; and
      (2)   Signs mounted atop a pole(s). The signs may not be larger than 144
square feet and may only identify or advertise the products or services
provided by the occupants of the property. Additional restrictions include a
maximum height of 35 feet as measured to the top of the sign, no part of the
sign may extend over any public right-of-way. Each pole or standard supporting
the sign may not exceed a width or diameter to excess of two feet at any
intersection or driveway exit from the property and may not be located nearer
than ten feet of each other if multiple poles or standards are necessary to
support the sign. In all cases no sign shall be located so as to interfere with
the visibility of motorist at any intersection or driveway and may not be less
than ten feet to the bottom for an elevated sign.
   (B)   Signs placed at ground level may not exceed a height of three feet at
any intersection or driveway exit from the property.
   (C)   All signs may be illuminated, but shall not be placed so as to
interfere with the visibility of motorist. Flashing or rotating signs may not
resemble lighted traffic controls or emergency vehicles or interfere with the
motoring public in any way.
(Ord. 83, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.07 BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BILLBOARD SIGNS. See OFF-PREMISES SIGN.
      DYNAMIC DISPLAYS. Any characteristics of a sign that appear to have
movement or that appear to change, caused by any method other than physically
removing and replacing the sign or its components, whether the apparent
movement or change is in the display, the sign structure itself, or any other
component of the sign. This includes a display that incorporates a technology
or method allowing the sign face to change the image without having to
physically or mechanically replace the sign face or its components. This also
includes any rotating, revolving, moving, flashing, blinking, or animated
display and any display that incorporates rotating panels, LED lights
manipulated through digital input, “digital ink” or any other method or
technology that allows the sign face to present a series of images or displays.
Time and temperature and gas price signs are not considered DYNAMIC DISPLAYS.
      GROUND SIGN. A sign which is supported by one or more uprights, poles, or
braces in or upon the ground and not attached to any building.
      OFF-PREMISES SIGN (BILLBOARD). A sign which directs attention to a
business, profession, activity, commodity, service, or entertainment offered or
existing elsewhere than upon the same lot where such sign is displayed.
      ON-PREMISES SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business,
profession, activity, commodity, service, or entertainment, offered or existing
on the same lot where such sign is displayed; provided, an on-site sign may
also display a non-commercial message.
      WALL SIGN. A sign which is attached to the wall of a building, with the
face in a plane parallel to such wall and not extending more than 12 inches
from the face of such wall.
   (B)   Restrictions.
      (1)   Billboard signs may be located only within a C-1, C-1R, M-1 or M-
2 zoning district. Billboard signs may not be located within 1,500 feet of each
other on the same side of a street or highway or within 300 feet of each other
on opposite sides of the street or highway. Billboards existing at the time of
adoption of this revision are grandfathered in at their present locations.
      (2)   The advertising surface shall not exceed 672 square feet per side.
      (3)   Billboards shall not contain more than two sign surfaces facing in
opposite directions with an interior angle not exceeding 45 degrees.
      (4)   Billboards may not exceed a height of 35 feet as measured from the
established grade to the top of the sign.
      (5)   Billboards must be set back not less than 25 feet from the front
property line and not less than 15 feet from any side property line.
      (6)   Billboards must not be less than 300 feet from any D-1, D-2 or D-
3 Dwelling District. Billboards existing at the time of adoption of this
revision are grandfathered in at their present locations. The exception to this
grandfather clause would be the existing billboard, which faces 44th Avenue, on
the north side of Highway 61 near the corner of Service Drive and 44th Avenue.
      (7)   The bottom of a billboard sign may not be nearer than ten feet from
the established grade at intersections or any property driveway exit.
   (C)   Dynamic display overlay. Entities desiring dynamic displays on signs
must first follow applicable sign regulations of division (B) of this section
and then the following language (where applicable) to obtain a dynamic display
permit in accordance with §
151.02 of this chapter.
      (1)   Dynamic displays are permitted for all uses in commercial and
manufacturing districts as stated in division (B)(1) of this section. They are
prohibited in all other zoning districts of the city.
      (2)   On-premises dynamic displays may occupy no more than 50% of the
actual copy and graphic area of a sign. Off-premises dynamic displays may
occupy 100% of the actual copy and graphic area. For all signs - only one,
contiguous dynamic display area is allowed on a sign face.
      (3)   Dynamic displays, for both on-premises and off-premises signs, may
not change or move more often than once every 7.5 seconds. Sign owners must
provide at least five hours per month during these time intervals for public
service announcements at no cost to the city (i.e.; Amber Alerts, Goodview
Days, Safe & Sober, Sandlot Baseball, Lighted Parade, and the like).
      (4)   Dynamic display images and messages displayed must be static, and
the transition from one static display to another must be instantaneous.
      (5)   Images and messages displayed must be complete in themselves,
without continuation in content to the next image or message or to any other
sign.
      (6)   Only one dynamic display is allowed per entity/business. A ground
sign with two faces counts as one dynamic display, a wall sign also counts as
one dynamic display. A sign with more than two dynamic display faces is
prohibited.
      (7)   Dynamic displays must be designed and equipped to freeze the device
in one position if a malfunction occurs. The displays must also be equipped
with a means to immediately discontinue the display if it malfunctions, and the
sign owner must immediately stop the dynamic display when notified by the city
that it is not complying with the standards of this section.
      (8)   (a)   In addition to complying with the brightness standards
described in division (C)(8)(b) of this section, dynamic displays must face
toward the nearest rights-of-way and away from residential and scenic areas,
which include LaCanne Park and Lake Goodview.
         (b)   No sign shall be illuminated by other than electrical means and
electrical devices and wiring shall be installed in accordance with the
requirements of the State of Minnesota Electrical Code. No sign shall be
illuminated to a degree of brightness that is greater then necessary for clear
and adequate visibility. The light from any illuminated sign or from any light
source, including interior of a building, shall be so shaded, shielded, or
directed that the light intensity or brightness shall not adversely affect
surrounding or facing residential districts or adversely affect safe vision of
operators of vehicles moving on public or private roads, highways, or parking
areas; and be of such intensity or brilliance that it interferes with the
effectiveness of an official traffic sign, device or signal.
      (9)   In accordance with the brightness standards described in division
(C)(8)(b) of this section, all dynamic displays must be equipped with a dimmer
control or other device which allows the luminance of the display to be
adjusted. Dynamic displays also must be equipped with a photo cell or other
means by which the sign can automatically adjust luminance to varying ambient
light conditions. Both the dimmer and ambient light device must be in full
operational capacity. Non-operation of these devices is deemed a malfunction
and dealt with according to division (C)(7) of this section.
      (10)   Dynamic displays existing on (insert the effective date of this
revised section) are exempt from the provisions of this section. Existing
displays may not be enlarged, expanded, moved, or otherwise improved except for
the purpose of normal maintenance (i.e. repainting, relamping, or replacing
faces); and may not exceed a level two operating mode as described in division
(C)(11) of this section. If an existing dynamic display is destroyed by any
means by more than 50% of its value and/or is replaced it must comply with this
section.
      (11)   Operating modes for dynamic displays:
         (a)   Level 1. Segmented static display only (message change with no
transition).
         (b)   Level 2. Static display with “fade” or “dissolve” transitions
and frame effects that do not have the appearance of moving text or images.
(Ord. 83, passed - -2004; Ord. 2011-04 (83.1), passed 11-21-2011) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 151.08 PERMIT REVOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   If the Public Works Director finds that any sign or advertising
structure is unsafe or insecure, or constitutes a danger to the public or had
been constructed or is being maintained in violation of the provisions of this
chapter, the Director shall give written notice to the permittee thereof or the
property owner if a permit has not been secured.
      (2)   If the permittee or the property owner fails to remove or alter the
structure as specified by the Director within ten days of the notice, the
structure may be removed or altered to comply with the directives contained in
the notice at the expense of the property owner upon which the structure is
located.
   (B)   The Public Works Director may cause any sign or advertising structure
which is deemed an immediate peril to persons or property to be removed
summarily with notice deemed appropriate. All costs incurred in so doing shall
be paid by permittee or the property owner upon which the structure is located.
(Ord. 83, passed - -2004)
§ 151.09 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   Any sign, advertising structure or billboard, not in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter as of the date of adoption shall upon reaching the
end of their useful life or 15 years from the date hereon be removed or
reconstructed only in compliance with the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 83, passed - -2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective after its adoption by the City Council
and its publication in the official newspaper of the city. A summary
publication is hereby approved. The ordinance codified herein was published on
4-30-2004.
(Ord. 83, passed - -2004)
CHAPTER 152: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Authority
   
152.02   Statement of purpose
   
152.03   Warning of disclaimer of liability
   
152.04   Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted
   
152.05   Lands to which chapter applies
   
152.06   Interpretation
   
152.07   Definitions
   
152.08   Administration
   
152.09   Variances
   
152.10   Amendments
Flood Hazard Prevention
   
152.25   Conflict with pre-existing zoning regulations and general compliance
   
152.26   Permitted uses, standards and flood plain evaluation criteria
   
152.27   Utilities, railroads, roads and bridges in the Flood Plain District
   
152.28   Subdivisions
   
152.29   Nonconformities
   
152.30   Travel trailers and travel vehicles
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 AUTHORITY.
   The Legislature of the state has, in M.S. Chs. 103F and 462, as may be
amended from time to time, delegated the authority to local governmental units
to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood losses. M.S. Ch. 103F, as may
be amended from time to time, further stipulates that communities subject to
recurrent flooding must participate and maintain eligibility in the National
Flood Insurance Program. Therefor, the city does ordain as follows.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
§ 152.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to maintain the community’s eligibility in
the National Flood Insurance Program and to minimize potential losses due to
periodic flooding including loss of life, loss of property, health and safety
hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public
expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base,
all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
§ 152.03 WARNING OF DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter does not imply that areas outside of the flood plain district
or land uses permitted within the districts will be free from flooding and
flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city
or any officer or employee thereof for any flood damages that result from
reliance on this chapter or any administrative decisions lawfully made
thereunder.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
§ 152.04 FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP ADOPTED.
   (A)   Flood Insurance Rate Maps for the city, dated 6-15-1982, Community
Panel Number 2705280005B, and Flood, Insurance Rate Maps for the County of
Winona, dated 1-18-1984, Community Panel Numbers 2705250100C and 2705250079C
all developed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, are hereby adopted by
reference thereto as the official flood plain zoning district maps of the city
and are hereby made a part of this chapter as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   This section shall be in full force and effect from and after its
passage by the City Council and its publication in the official newspaper of
the city. The ordinance codified herein was published on 10-30-1992.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991; Ord. 58.3, passed 10-19-1992)
§ 152.05 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands designated as flood plain within the
jurisdiction of city.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
§ 152.06 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The boundaries of the flood plain district shall be determined by
scaling distances on the official flood plain zoning district map. Where
interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of the
flood plain district, the Zoning Administrator shall make the necessary
interpretation based on elevations on the regional (100-year) flood profile, if
available.
   (B)   If 100-year flood evaluations are not available, the community shall:
      (1)   Require a flood plain evaluation consistent with §
152.26(C) to determine a 100-year flood elevation for the site; or
      (2)   Base its decision on available hydraulic/hydrologic or site
elevation survey data which demonstrates the likelihood that site is within or
outside of the flood plain.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
§ 152.07 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and of
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principle use or
structure.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the flood plain outside of the floodway.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The channel or beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland,
lake or watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional
flood. FLOOD PLAIN AREAS within city shall encompass all areas designated as
Zone A on the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining flood plain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, dredged spoil, channel modification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, stockpile of sand or gravel or
other material, or matter in, along, across or projecting into any channel,
watercourse, lake bed or regulatory flood plain which may impede, retard or
change the direction of flow, either in itself or by catching or collecting
debris carried by floodwater.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristics of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE FLOOD,
used in the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be an elevation no lower than one foot above the elevation of
the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the flood plain that result from designation of a floodway.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, travel
trailers/vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in §
152.30 and other similar items.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
§ 152.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Permit required. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator shall be
secured prior to the construction, addition or alteration of any building or
structure; prior to the use or change of use of a building, structure or land;
prior to the change or extension of a nonconforming use; and prior to
excavation or the placement of an obstruction within the flood plain.
   (B)   State and federal permits. Prior to granting a permit or processing an
application for a variance, the Zoning Administrator shall determine that the
applicant has obtained all necessary state and federal permits.
   (C)   Certification of lowest floor elevations. The applicant shall be
required to submit certification by a registered professional engineer,
registered architect or registered land surveyor that the finished fill and
building elevations were accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of the elevation of
the lowest floor (including basement) for all new structures and alterations or
additions to existing structures; in the flood plain district.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
§ 152.09 VARIANCES.
   (A)   A VARIANCE means a modification of a specified permitted development
standard required in an official control including this chapter to allow an
alternative development standard not stated as acceptable in the official
control, but only as applied to a particular property for the purpose of
alleviating a hardship, practical difficulty or unique circumstance as defined
and elaborated upon in a community’s respective planning and zoning enabling
legislation.
   (B)   The Board may authorize upon appeal in specific cases the relief or
variance from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the public
interest and only for those circumstances such as hardship, practical
difficulties or circumstances unique to the property under consideration, as
provided for in the respective enabling legislation for planning and zoning for
cities or countries as appropriate. In the granting of the variance, the Board
of Adjustment shall clearly identify in writing the specific conditions that
existed consistent with the criteria specified in the respective enabling
legislation which justified the granting of the variance.
   (C)   Variances from the provisions of this chapter may be authorized where
the Board of Adjustment has determined the variance will not be contrary to the
public interest and the spirit and intent of this chapter. No variance shall
allow in any district a use prohibited in that district or permit a lower
degree of flood protection then the regulatory flood protection elevation.
Variances may be used to modify permissible methods of flood protection.
   (D)   The Board shall submit by mail to the Commissioner of Natural
Resources a copy of the application for proposed variance sufficiently in
advance so that the Commissioner will receive at least ten-days’ notice of the
hearing. A copy of all decisions granting a variance shall be forwarded by mail
to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of the action.
   (E)   Appeals from any decision of the Board may be made, and as specified
in this community’s official controls and also state statutes.
   (F)   (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant for a
variance that:
         (a)   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
         (b)   The construction below the 100-year or regional flood level
increases risks to life and property.
      (2)   The notification shall be maintained with a record of all variance
actions. A community shall maintain a record of all variance actions, including
justification for their issuance, and report the variances issued in its annual
or biennial report submitted to the Administrator of the National Flood
Insurance Program.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
§ 152.10 AMENDMENTS.
   All amendments to this chapter, including revisions to the official flood
plain zoning district map, shall be submitted to and approved by the
Commissioner of Natural Resources prior to adoption. The flood plain
designation on the official food plain zoning district map shall not be removed
unless the area is filled to an elevation at or above the regulatory food
protection elevation and is contiguous to lands outside of the flood plain.
Changes in the official zoning map must meet the Federal Emergency Management
Agency’s (FEMA) technical conditions and criteria and must receive prior FEMA
approval before adoption. The written notice of all hearings to consider an
amendment to this chapter and said notice shall include a draft of the
ordinance amendment or technical study under consideration.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
FLOOD HAZARD PREVENTION
§ 152.25 CONFLICT WITH PRE-EXISTING ZONING REGULATIONS AND GENERAL COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The flood plain zoning district shall be considered an overlay zoning
district to all existing land use regulations of the community. The uses
permitted in §§
152.26 and
152.27 shall be permitted only if not prohibited by any established, underlying
zoning district. The requirements of this chapter shall apply in addition to
other legally established regulations of the community and where this chapter
imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall apply.
   (B)   No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no structure
shall be located, extended, converted or structurally altered without full
compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations
which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter. Within the
floodway and flood fringe, all uses not listed as permitted uses in §
152.26 shall be prohibited. In addition, a caution is provided here that:
      (1)   New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes and certain
travel trailers and travel vehicles are subject to the general provisions of
this chapter and specifically §§
152.26 and
152.99;
      (2)   Modifications, additions, structural alterations or repair after
damage to existing nonconforming structures and nonconforming uses of
structures or land are regulated by the general provisions of this chapter and
specifically §
152.29; and
      (3)   As-built elevations for elevated structures must be certified by
ground surveys as stated in §
152.08.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
§ 152.26 PERMITTED USES, STANDARDS AND FLOOD PLAIN EVALUATION CRITERIA.
   (A)   Permitted uses in the flood plain. The following uses of land are
permitted uses in the flood plain district:
      (1)   Any use of land which does not involve a structure, an addition to
the outside dimensions to an existing structure or an obstruction to flood
flows such as fill, excavation or storage of materials or equipment;
      (2)   Any use of land involving the construction of new structures, the
placement or replacement of manufactured homes, the addition to the outside
dimensions of an existing structure or obstructions such as fill or storage of
materials or equipment, provided these activities are located in the flood
fringe portion of the flood plain. These uses shall be subject to the
development standards in division (B) below and the flood plain evaluation
criteria in division (C) below for determining floodway and flood fringe
boundaries; and
      (3)   Travel trailers and travel vehicles are regulated by §
152.30.
   (B)   Standards for flood plain permitted uses.
      (1)   Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for
removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation; FEMA’s
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
      (2)   (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
         (b)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
or if placed on fill to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (3)   No use shall be permitted which will adversely affect the capacity
of the channels or floodways of any tributary to the main stream, or of any
drainage ditch, or any other drainage facility or system.
      (4)   All structures, including accessory structures, additions to
existing structures and manufactured homes, shall be constructed on fill so
that the basement floor, or first floor if there is no basement, is at or above
the regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation must be
no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood protection elevation and
shall extend at an elevation at least 15 feet beyond the limits of the
structure constructed thereon.
      (5)   Uses that do not have vehicular access at or above an elevation not
more than two feet below the regulatory flood protection elevation to lands
outside of the flood plain shall not be permitted unless granted a variance by
the Board of Adjustment. In granting a variance, the Board shall specify
limitations on the period of use or occupancy of the use and only after
determining that adequate flood warning time and local emergency response and
recovery procedures exist.
      (6)   Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad tracks and parking
lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation.
However, a permit for the facilities to be used by the employees or the general
public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood warning system that
provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be inundated to a depth
greater than two feet or be subject to flood velocities greater than four feet
per second upon occurrence of the regional flood.
      (7)   (a)   Where public utilities are not provided:
            1.   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
            2.   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into flood waters and they shall not be subject
to impairment or contamination during times of flooding.
         (b)   Any sewage treatment system designed in accordance with the
state’s current statewide standards for on-site sewage treatment systems shall
be determined to be in compliance with this section.
      (8)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
   (C)   Flood plain evaluation.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a permit, manufactured home park
development or subdivision approval within the flood plain district, the city
shall require the applicant to furnish sufficient site development plans and a
hydrologic/hydraulic analysis by a qualified engineer or hydrologist specifying
the nature of the development and whether the proposed use is located in the
floodway or flood fringe and the regulatory flood protection elevation for the
site. Procedures consistent with Minn. Rules parts 6120.5600 (Technical
Standards and Requirements For Flood Plain Evaluation) and 6120.5700 (Minimum
Flood Plain Management Standards for Local Ordinances) shall be followed during
the technical evaluation and review of the development proposal.
      (2)   The city shall submit one copy of all information required by
division (C)(1) above to the respective Department of Natural Resources’ Area
Hydrologist for review and comment at least 20 days prior to the granting of a
permit or manufactured home park development/subdivision approval by the
community. The city shall notify the respective Department of Natural Resources
Area Hydrologist within ten days after a permit or manufactured home park
development/subdivision approval is granted.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
§ 152.27 UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS AND BRIDGES IN THE FLOOD PLAIN DISTRICT.
   All utilities and transportation facilities, including railroad tracks,
roads and bridges, shall be constructed in accordance with state flood plain
management standards contained in Minn. Rules parts 6120.5000 through
6120.6200.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
§ 152.28 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   No land shall be subdivided and no manufactured home park shall be
developed or expanded where the site is determined to be unsuitable by the City
Council for reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage
treatment facilities. The City Council shall review the subdivision/development
proposal to ensure that each lot or parcel contains sufficient area outside of
the floodway for fill placement for elevating structures, sewage systems and
related activities.
   (B)   In the Flood Plain District, applicants for subdivision approval or
development of a manufactured home park or manufactured home park expansion
shall provide the information required in §
152.26(A). The Zoning Administrator shall evaluate the proposed subdivision or
mobile home park development in accordance with the standards established in §§
152.26(B) and (C) and
152.27.
   (C)   For all subdivisions in the flood plain, the floodway and flood fringe
boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and the required
elevation of all access roads shall be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
   (D)   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established
criteria for removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain
structures properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
§ 152.29 NONCONFORMITIES.
   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
   (A)   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its nonconformity.
   (B)   An alteration within the inside dimensions of a nonconforming use or
structure is permissible provided it will not result in increasing the flood
damage potential of that use or structure.
   (C)   The cost of all structural alterations or additions both inside and
outside of a structure to any nonconforming structure over the life of the
structure shall not exceed 50% of the market value of the structure unless the
conditions of this section are satisfied. The cost of all structural
alterations and additions constructed since the adoption of the community’s
initial flood plain controls must be calculated into today’s current cost which
will include all costs such as construction materials and a reasonable cost
placed on all manpower or labor. If the current cost of all previous and
proposed alterations and additions exceeds 50% of the current market value of
the structure, then the structure must meet the standards of §
152.26 for new structures.
   (D)   If any nonconforming use of a structure or land or nonconforming
structure is destroyed by any means, including floods, to an extent of 50% or
more of its market value at the time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. The
City Council may issue a permit for reconstruction if the use is located
outside the floodway and, upon reconstruction, is adequately elevated on fill
in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
§ 152.30 TRAVEL TRAILERS AND TRAVEL VEHICLES.
   Travel trailers and travel vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria
specified in division (A) below shall be subject to the provisions of this
chapter and as specifically spelled out in divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (A)   Travel trailers and travel vehicles are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter if they are placed in any of the areas listed in division (B)
below and further they meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Have current licenses required for highway use;
      (2)   Are highway ready meaning on wheels or the internal jacking system,
are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities commonly used
in campgrounds and trailer parks and the travel trailer/travel vehicle has no
permanent structural type additions attached to it; and
      (3)   The travel trailer or travel vehicle and associated use must be
permissible in any pre-existing, underlying zoning use district.
   (B)   Areas exempted for placement of travel/recreational vehicles:
      (1)   Individual lots or parcels of record;
      (2)   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds; and
      (3)   Existing condominium type associations.
   (C)   Travel trailers and travel vehicles exempted in division (A) above
lose this exemption when development occurs on the parcel exceeding $500 for a
structural addition to the travel trailer/travel vehicle or an accessory
structure such as a garage or storage building. The travel trailer/travel
vehicle and all additions and accessory structures will then be treated as a
new structure and shall be subject to the elevation requirements and the use of
land restrictions specified in §
152.26.
   (D)   New commercial travel trailer or travel vehicle parks or campgrounds
and new residential type subdivisions and condominium associations and the
expansion of any existing similar use exceeding five units or dwelling sites
shall be subject to the following.
      (1)   Any new or replacement travel trailer or travel vehicle will be
allowed in the Floodway or Flood Fringe Districts; provided, the trailer or
vehicle and its contents are placed on fill above the regulatory flood
protection elevation determined in accordance with the provisions of §
152.26(C) and proper elevated road access to the site exists in accordance with
§
152.26. No fill placed in the floodway to meet the requirements of this section
shall increase flood stages of the 100-year or regional flood.
      (2)   All new or replacement travel trailers or travel vehicles not
meeting the criteria of division (D)(1) above may, as an alternative, be
allowed if in accordance with the following provisions. The applicant must
submit an emergency plan for the safe evacuation of all vehicles and people
during the 100-year flood. The plan shall be prepared by a registered engineer
or other qualified individual and shall demonstrate that adequate time and
personnel exist to carry out the evacuation. All attendant sewage and water
facilities for new or replacement: travel trailers or other recreational
vehicles must be protected or constructed so as to not be impaired or
contaminated during times of flooding in accordance with §
152.26(B).
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply
with any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variance) shall constitute a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning
Administrator and local government may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The community must act in good faith to
enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to the
extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program.
   (C)   When an ordinance violation is either discovered by or brought to the
attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural
Resources and Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Office along with
the community’s plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the Community. If the construction or development is
already completed, then the Zoning Administrator may either:
      (1)   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be made
within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into compliance
with the official controls; or
      (2)   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact permit/
development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30 days.
   (E)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the Zoning
Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day that
lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter and shall be
prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also upon the lapse of
the specified response period notify the landowner to restore the land to the
condition which existed prior to the violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 58.2, passed 11-18-1991)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Intent, purpose and authority
   
153.02   Platting authority
   
153.03   Lands to which chapter applies
   
153.04   Conformity to other plans
   
153.05   Design standards for land subdivisions
   
153.06   Improvements
   
153.07   Preliminary plat specifications
   
153.08   Action on preliminary plat
   
153.09   Survey
   
153.10   Final plat specifications
   
153.11   Final plat approval
   
153.12   Variances
   
153.13   Land alterations
Combined Unit Developments
   
153.25   Purpose
   
153.26   Approval criteria
   
153.27   Procedure for development plan approval
   
153.28   Survey
   
153.29   Final plat approval
   
153.30   Zoning map
   
153.31   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 INTENT, PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are adopted pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, as may be amended
from time to time, for the purpose of providing for the orderly, economic and
safe development of land, to preserve agricultural lands, to promote the
availability of housing affordable to persons and families of all income
levels, and to facilitate adequate provision for transportation, water, sewage,
storm drainage, schools, parks, playgrounds and other public services and
facilities; and are held to be the minimum standards and design requirements as
to urban services and facilities.
(Ord. 61.12, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 153.02 PLATTING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The City Council shall act as the Platting Authority for
administration of this chapter and for preliminary and final review and
approval or disapproval of subdivisions.
   (B)   The Supervisor of Zoning of the city is charged with the
responsibility of the administration of this chapter.
(Ord. 61.12, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 153.03 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to any tract or parcel of land hereafter
divided by the owner, subdivider, designer or his or her agent into five or
more tracts or parcels of land any of which is less than two and one-half acres
in area; provided that, this chapter shall not apply to transfers of interest
in land by will or pursuant to court order so long as the will or court order
does not purport to subdivide the land unless in accordance with this chapter;
or to leases for a term not to exceed ten years, mortgages or easements, or the
sale or exchange of parcels of land between owners of adjoining properties if
additional buildable lots pursuant to zoning ordinances are not thereby created
and the lots remaining are not reduced below the minimum sizes required by
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances or other applicable laws or ordinances.
   (B)   If these regulations do not apply to a subdivision submitted to the
city, the City Administrator shall within ten days certify to the submitter
that these regulations do not apply to the particular division.
(Ord. 61.12, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 153.04 CONFORMITY TO OTHER PLANS.
   Hereinafter, all land subdivisions shall conform to the regulations as set
out in this chapter and to all other plans of the city including, but not
limited to, the comprehensive plan, official map, utility plans, land use plan,
zoning plans, shore land management requirements and flood plain management
regulations.
(Ord. 61.12, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 153.05 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR LAND SUBDIVISIONS.
   A preliminary and final plat shall comply with the following design
standards as are applicable provided that a variance therefrom may be granted
by the City Council pursuant to §
153.12.
   (A)   The minimum widths of dedicated rights-of-way for travel shall be as
follows:
 
Alleys                                                                20 feet
Collector streets including principal business and industrial streets 80 feet
Collector streets - residential areas                                 80 feet
Local business and industrial streets                                 80 feet
Local residential streets                                             60 feet
Major arterial streets                                                100 feet
 
   (B)   Grades for buildings, lots, streets, curbs and gutters shall be, if
not previously established pursuant to division (A) above, as set by the City
Engineer.
   (C)   Dead end streets may be provided only with the express approval of the
City Council and, if so approved, shall provide a cul-de-sac at the closed end
having property line and outside of roadway diameters of not less than 120 feet
and a ten-foot utility easement along and within the property served by the
cul-de-sac and, if required, any other easement for continuation of water mains
to complete water main loops or other necessary utility loops.
   (D)   Street and house numbers shall conform to the master plan of such for
the city.
   (E)   The City Council shall require the dedication to the public or
preservation for public use of a reasonable portion of any proposed subdivision
for public use as parks, playgrounds, trails or open space or in lieu thereof
the city may choose to accept an equivalent amount in cash based on the fair
market value of the land. Any cash payments received shall be used by the city
for maintenance and development of the recreation uses referred to above.
   (F)   It is desirable for street intersections to be at right angles but the
Council may approve other configurations where accessability to property for
utilities, circulation of traffic, fire fighting, drainage and efficiency of
maintenance are not materially altered. However, all proposed streets shall be
compatible with all existing or planned streets in areas outside of the
subdivision.
   (G)   Lot sizes shall conform to regulations of
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances. Where long blocks are proposed, the
Council may require dedication of adequate area for pedestrian ways across the
block in specified location.
   (H)   Easements shall be provided for sewer and water mains, drainage and
any other utilities specified by the City Council. Buffer zones, defined as an
open space or area containing greenery for the purpose of screening, when
required by the City Council, shall be of widths and lengths as required by the
City Council.
(Ord. 61.12, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 153.06 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council may require the construction of utilities or
improvements within the subdivision. The subdivider shall provide a contract,
secured as acceptable to the City Council with conditions satisfactory to it
that the utilities or improvements as required by the City Council will be
constructed.
   (B)   The City Council may deny any or all building permits for construction
of any building, structure or use within the subdivision until the utilities or
improvements as required have been constructed or a contract as herein
described has been provided to the city.
      (1)   All improvements required pursuant to this chapter shall be at the
expense of the subdivider, unless agreed otherwise by any agreement made
pursuant to the provision of this chapter, except all costs related to the
construction of a storm water system shall be at the expense of the city.
However, a subdivider may petition to the city to finance the cost of the
improvements or utilities required. If accepted by the city and prior to the
completion of the improvement or utilities the subdivider wishes to sell or
transfer a parcel of property within the subdivision then no lot, piece or
parcel of the subdivision may be sold, exchanged or transferred without first
escrowing with the city the total estimated amount of assessments applicable to
the property being transferred; provided that, in lieu thereof, the subdivider
may provide a written agreement with the notarized signature of the buyer of
any lot, piece or parcel of the subdivision, upon it attesting to and agreeing
that the buyer acknowledges and agrees to assume the assessments after sale.
The subdivider shall also agree upon completion of the construction of the
utilities and improvements to deposit with the city the difference between the
estimated assessment and the actual, which shall be done on or before the date
of the last transfer of property within the subdivision assuming all
construction is completed as of that date.
      (2)   The conditions of this section shall apply to all heirs, assigns
and successors of the contractor.
      (3)   (a)   Utilities or improvements which the City Council may require
are as follows:
            1.   Finished permanent streets;
            2.   Curb and gutter;
            3.   Water and sewer mains; and
            4.   Buffer zones.
         (b)   All such utilities or improvements shall meet the specifications
of the City Council.
(Ord. 61.12, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 153.07 PRELIMINARY PLAT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A preliminary plat submitted to the City Council shall be clearly and
legibly drawn and scaled at not less than one inch equals 100 feet.
   (B)   The preliminary plat together with accompanying sheets of data and
other materials, as needed, shall show including, but not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Name of subdivision, north point, scale, date, names and addresses
of owners, subdivider, surveyor or engineer or designer;
      (2)   An up to date abstract or certificate of title;
      (3)   Correct location and designation of boundary lines, quarter and
sixteenth section lines, streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, drainage courses,
ditches, existing roads, streets, highways existing structures and dry or wet
low lands if any;
      (4)   Topography of land with contour lines at vertical intervals of two
feet or less as required by the City Engineer;
      (5)   General layout of proposed subdivision and of facilities and
improvements, including proposed public streets, roads, alleys, easements,
walks, street numbers, dimensions of blocks and lots, areas of lots in square
feet, approximate radii of all curves, lot and block numbers, proposed public
areas, if any, and set back lines;
      (6)   Proposed treatment of areas needing drainage or protection from
erosion;
      (7)   Statement of all improvements needed, time schedule for completion
and desired method financing;
      (8)   Proposed street grades and profiles satisfactory to the City
Engineer;
      (9)   Proposed method of sewage disposal and water supply;
      (10)   Seven dark line copies of the proposed plat and accompanying
information shall be submitted to the Supervisor of Zoning for which a receipt
shall be issued; and
      (11)   If the land to be subdivided abuts any lands of the state or
county, then the preliminary plat should also be submitted for comment from
those jurisdictions.
(Ord. 61.12, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 153.08 ACTION ON PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The preliminary plat shall be reviewed for compliance with all applicable
specifications by the Supervisor of Zoning, consulting engineer and the City
Council.
   (A)   Approval or disapproval of a preliminary plat shall be determined
within 120 days following delivery of a application completed in compliance
with this chapter by the applicant to the city, unless an extension of the
review period has been agreed to by the applicant. If the city fails to
preliminarily approve or disapprove an application within 120 days, the
applicant shall be deemed preliminarily approved.
   (B)   The city shall hold a public hearing before approving or disapproving
a subdivision application. The hearing shall be held following publication of
notice of the time and place thereof in the official newspaper at least ten
days before the day of the hearing.
   (C)   If the city gives approval of the preliminary plat a written report
making known all conditions for approval of the final plat, if any, shall be
issued by the City Council to the subdivider; provided that, the list shall not
be finite and additional conditions may be imposed by the City Council where
any omission or change in the plat has occurred. In issuing the report, the
City Council shall thereby give conditional approval to the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 61.12, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 153.09 SURVEY.
   Following approval of the preliminary plat by the City Council, the
subdivider shall cause the subdivision to be surveyed, staked and monumented by
a registered land surveyor in accordance with standards set therefore. No plat
may receive final approval until the survey, staking and monumenting has been
completed and approved by the Supervisor of Zoning.
(Ord. 61.12, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 153.10 FINAL PLAT SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The final plat materials, size and scale shall be as specified by the
County Recorder and shall show:
      (1)   All existing section lines, quarter and sixteenth section lines
within the platted area tied to the plat. If none are contained in the plat,
then ties should be made to at least one outside;
      (2)   Outside boundary lines and all angles and distances necessary for
closure of boundaries by latitude and departure;
      (3)   Street lines, alley lines, rights-of-way, easements, lots, all
other sites and reservations and all land deeded to the public with dimensions,
angles and curve functions;
      (4)   All distances included in the dedication and all monuments, angles,
curve functions and the like necessary for checking the entire description;
      (5)   Street and avenue numbers and purposes of easements, alleys and
other rights-of-way;
      (6)   Lot and block numbers consecutively numbered;
      (7)   A certificate by the registered surveyor who surveyed the property
indicating that such was done in accordance with generally accepted methods of
surveying; and
      (8)   Any other data, certificates, affidavits or endorsements required
by law, by the City Council or by the state or county.
   (B)   The Supervisor of Zoning shall check the filed material for conformity
with the requirements of the law and with these regulations, including
conformity with any conditions for approval of the preliminary plat by the City
Council, and the Engineer shall check the plat and survey for required
accuracy. If satisfactory, the Supervisor of Zoning shall accept and issue a
receipt for the plat. If not satisfactory, the subdivider shall cause the
required changes and additions to be made before acceptance for filing and
issuance of a receipt.
(Ord. 61.12, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 153.11 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Within 60 days after the issuance of the receipt for the filing of the
final plat with the Supervisor of Zoning, the City Council shall thereafter
approve or disapprove the plat, but failure of the Council to act upon the
application within 60 days shall be deemed approval. The grounds for any
refusal to approve a plat shall be set forth in the proceedings of the City
Council and shall be reported in writing to the subdivider. After approval of
the final plat, the certificate of approval showing thereon and the certified
copy of the resolution of approval accompanying it, it shall be filed with the
County Recorder and with the city.
   (B)   Final plat approval shall be evidenced by a three-fifths majority vote
in favor thereof by the City Council.
(Ord. 61.12, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 153.12 VARIANCES.
   Any restriction or provision of this chapter may be varied only by
application with the Supervisor of Zoning and approval of a variance by the
City Council. The Council shall act on an application for variance at a regular
or special meeting within 30 days from the date of presentation to the Council,
except where additional information is required, then the Council shall render
a written decision within 30 days from receipt of the additional information.
   (A)   In any particular case where the subdivider can show that, by reason
of exceptional topographic or other physical conditions, strict compliance with
any requirement of these regulations would cause practical difficulty or
exceptional and undue hardship, the City Council may relax the requirements to
the extent deemed just and proper, so as to relieve the difficulty or hardship;
provided, the relief may be granted without detriment to the public good and
without impairing the intended purpose of these regulations or the desirable
general development of the neighborhood and the community in accordance with
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless it is approved by a three-fifths
majority vote in favor thereof by the City Council.
(Ord. 61.12, passed 6-8-1987)
§ 153.13 LAND ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Permits required.
      (1)   A land alteration permit shall be required for the excavation,
grading or filling of land whenever the alteration involves 2,500 square feet
of land area or more, or for any alteration which, in the opinion of the
Supervisor of Zoning, may present an erosion problem.
      (2)   Applications for land alteration permits may be made to the
Supervisor of Zoning and shall include the following information:
         (a)   A plat or map showing the limits of the land to be altered;
         (b)   Amount of ground cover to be disturbed;
         (c)   Methods to be used in preventing erosion and trapping of
sediment at the site;
         (d)   Methods and materials for restoring ground cover;
         (e)   Starting and completion dates; and
         (f)   Any other information the Supervisor of Zoning or City Council
may request.
      (3)   Permits shall be granted only after a majority vote in favor
thereof, by the City Council.
      (4)   The City Council may refuse to issue a land alteration permit to
anyone who is not in compliance with any previously issued permit or for
failure to properly contain any previous or existing alterations.
      (5)   The City Council may attach any condition it finds reasonable and
necessary to any proposed land alteration permit.
      (6)   All land alterations existing upon the date of adoption and
publication of this subchapter shall cease and the owner(s) of property upon
which the alterations are taking place shall make application for a permit in
accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   Engineering or surveying required. All costs incurred by the city for
engineering or surveying necessary for review or execution of land alterations
shall be paid by the applicant or permit holder.
   (C)   Bond required.
      (1)   The City Council may require anyone making application for a land
alteration permit to provide a performance bond in an amount as determined by
the Council, for the performance and completion of any land alteration. In the
event of failure by the land alteration permit holder to execute the land
alterations in accordance with the approved permit, the city shall do so and
shall submit claim against the bond for any and all expense incurred in
correcting any default.
      (2)   The excavation, grading, stripping or filling of land, (known as
land alteration) is hereby declared a public nuisance when the land alteration
is performed without a permit as required by this subchapter or when the land
alteration causes soil erosion, silt or rock deposits on public or private
lands or when the collection or diversion of water attributable to the land
alteration causes unacceptable run-off patterns on private or public lands or
ways, or when the land alteration interferes with a comfortable enjoyment of
life or property.
      (3)   Nuisances, as declared by the City Council, shall be abated by the
city and all costs therefore shall be charged against the property or its owner
(s) in a manner consistent with law.
(Ord. 61.12, passed 6-8-1987)
COMBINED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
§ 153.25 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council finds that there is a need to permit combined unit
developments in the city to provide for improved living and working
environments, to promote more economical use of land, to provide needed
housing, to encourage the building and use of a variety of types of residential
housing, to encourage ingenuity and originality in total subdivision and
individual site designs, to respect the physical qualities of land areas and to
save scarce natural resources. To aid in achieving those needs, variation in
lot areas are permitted. Also, procedures are established to assure adequate
maintenance and restricted use of open space areas for the benefit of the
inhabitants of the developments or the dedication to public use. Also,
procedures are established to assure adequate protection of existing and
potential developments adjoining the proposed combined unit development.
   (B)   (1)   A combined unit development shall be permitted in any dwelling
district of the city and shall be a conditional use in all other zoning
districts.
      (2)   A combined unit development is a development providing housing. It
is not a development providing any commercial or other services except those
incidental and necessary to the main use.
      (3)   A combined unit development may include any residential use which
is both permitted within and regulated by underlying zoning.
      (4)   TOWNHOUSES are defined as any single-family dwelling unit on a
separate lot that shares a common wall with one other single-family dwelling
unit on a different lot; TOWNHOMES are defined as a single-family dwelling unit
on a separate lot that shares a common wall with one or more single-family
dwelling units on an adjoining lot; CONDOMINIUMS are defined as a single-family
dwelling unit which is contained on a lot in which all lot lines are
coterminous with or are within two feet of the outside or common walls of the
unit and which is surrounded by property owned by an organization in which the
owner of the dwelling unit has a voting or ownership interest. All of the above
dwellings shall be permitted uses within a combined unit development.
      (5)   Modification and variation of yard and lot requirements may be
permitted. The modifications and variations shall be shown on any preliminary
and final subdivision plan. Distances between dwellings or dwellings groups
shall not be less than 15 feet. Front yards shall be a minimum of 18 feet. Any
yard within the development which abuts an adjoining residential development
shall be the same as required for the adjoining dwelling development.
      (6)   The number of attached dwellings shall not exceed six within a D-
1 district and eight in a D-2 district.
      (7)   (a)   In each zone allowing combined unit development the lot size
may be reduced from the lot size requirements of
Chapter 154 of this code of ordinances or subsequent amendments thereto. All
lot reductions shall be compensated for by an amount of land in combined unit
development open space to be preserved and maintained for its scenic values and
for recreation and conservation purposes.
The combined lot size and open space requirement shall not be less than the
following amounts for the districts indicated:
 
D-1 district        7,000 square feel per dwelling unit
D-2, D-3 districts  6,000 square feet per dwelling unit
All other districts 5,500 square feet per dwelling unit
 
         (b)   Open space may include roads, common areas, recreation areas,
ponds, open water and all space committed to the combined unit development.
(Ord. 84, passed - -2004)
§ 153.26 APPROVAL CRITERIA.
   (A)   The approved preliminary subdivision plan for a development shall
provide for an environment similar to that which would be achieved under
standard regulations. If, in the opinion of the City Council, the proposed plan
could be improved by the reasonable modification of the location of open space
or buildings or configurations of lots, streets and parking areas, the proposed
plan shall be so modified. In acting on a proposed plan, the Council shall give
particular consideration to the following criteria.
   (B)   Individual lots, buildings, streets and parking areas shall be
designed and situated to minimize alteration of the natural state features to
be preserved.
      (1)   The usability of open space intended for recreation or public use
shall be determined by the size, shape, topographic and location requirements
of the particular purpose proposed for the site.
      (2)   Open space shall include irreplaceable natural features, located in
the tract such as, but not limited to, stream beds, open water, ponds,
significant stands of trees, individual trees of significant size, and rock
outcroppings.
      (3)   Open space intended for recreation or public use shall be easily
accessible to pedestrians including the handicapped and elderly.
      (4)   The suitability of open space intended for scenic value shall be
determined by its visibility from a significant number of units or buildings or
length of public or private streets.
      (5)   Diversity and originality in lot layout and individual building
design shall be encouraged to achieve the best possible relationship between
development and the land.
      (6)   Individual lots, buildings and dwelling units shall be arranged and
situated to relate to surrounding properties, to improve the view from and the
view of buildings, and to lessen areas devoted to motor vehicles.
      (7)   Individual lots, buildings, dwelling units, parking areas and the
like shall be situated to minimize the adverse effects of shadows, noise and
traffic.
(Ord. 84, passed - -2004)
§ 153.27 PROCEDURE FOR DEVELOPMENT PLAN APPROVAL.
   Submission and review of a development shall be in accordance with the
following provisions. A combined unit development preliminary plan may be
required at the same time as a zoning or rezoning request.
   (A)   Preliminary plan. In reviewing the plan, the Council shall ensure that
it meets the purpose and requirements of this subchapter. The action of the
Council shall be to approve, deny or modify the plan. Modifications shall be
made prior to final Council action.
   (B)   Preliminary plat specifications. A preliminary plat submitted to the
City Council shall be clearly and legibly drawn and scaled at not less that one
inch equals 100 feet. The preliminary plat together with accompanying sheets of
data and other materials, as needed, shall show including, but not limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Name of subdivision, north point, scale, date, names and address of
owners, subdivider, surveyor, engineer or designer;
      (2)   A title opinion as documentation of ownership;
      (3)   Correct location and designation of boundary lines, quarter and
sixteenth section line, streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, drainage courses,
ditches, existing roads, streets, highways, existing structures and dry or wet
low lands if any;
      (4)   Topography of land with contour lines at vertical intervals of two
feet or less as required by the City Engineer;
      (5)   General layout of proposed subdivision and of facilities and
improvements, including proposed public streets, roads, alleys, easements,
walks, street numbers, dimensions of blocks and lots, areas of lots in square
feet, approximate radii of all curves, lot and block numbers, proposed public
areas, if any, and set back lines;
      (6)   Proposed treatment of areas needing drainage or protection from
erosion;
      (7)   Statement of all improvements needed, time schedule for completion
and intended method of financing;
      (8)   Proposed street grades and profiles satisfactory to the City
Engineer;
      (9)   Proposed method of sewage disposal and water supply;
      (10)   Seven dark line copies of the proposed plat and accompanying
information shall be submitted to the Supervisor of Zoning for which a receipt
shall be issued; and
      (11)   If the land to be subdivided abuts any lands of the state or
county then the preliminary plan should also be submitted for comment from
those jurisdictions.
   (C)   Action on preliminary plat. The preliminary plat shall be reviewed for
compliance with all applicable specifications by the Supervisor of Zoning, City
Engineer and the City Council.
      (1)   Review of all preliminary plats shall be completed within 30 days
from the date of submission and receipt; provided that, any omission of
required or requested information by the subdivider shall serve to extend the
time for review by the amount of delay caused by the subdivider in submitting
the information.
      (2)   Within 14 days following the completion of review of the
preliminary plat, a written report making known any conditions for approval of
the final plat shall be issued by the City Council to the subdivider; provided
that, the list shall not be finite and additional conditions may be imposed by
the City Council where any omission or change in the plat has occurred. In
issuing the report, the City Council shall thereby give conditional approval to
the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 84, passed - -2004)
§ 153.28 SURVEY.
   Following conditional approval of the preliminary plat by the City Council,
the subdivider may cause the subdivision to be surveyed, staked and monumented
by the registered land surveyor in accordance with standards set therefore. No
plat may receive final approval until the survey, staking and monumenting has
been completed and approved by the Engineer or Supervisor of Zoning.
   (A)   (1)   The final plat materials, size and scale shall be as specified
by the County Recorder and County Auditor and shall show:
         (a)   All existing section lines, quarter and sixteenth lines within
the platted area, tied to the plat. If none are contained in the plat, then
ties should be made to at least one outside section line;
         (b)   Outside boundary lines and all angles and distances necessary
for closure of boundaries by latitude and departure;
         (c)   Street lines, alley lines, rights-of-way, easements, lots, all
other sites and reservations and all deeded land to the public with dimensions,
angles and curve functions;
         (d)   All distances, included in the dedication and all monuments,
angles, curve functions and the like necessary for checking the entire
description;
         (e)   Street and avenue numbers and purposes of easements, alleys and
other rights-of-way;
         (f)   Lot and block numbers consecutively numbered;
         (g)   A certificate by the registered surveyor who surveyed the
property indicating that such was done in accordance with generally accepted
methods of surveying;
         (h)   Any other data, certificates, affidavits or endorsements
required by law, by the City Council or by the state or county; and
         (i)   Lot, block, street, easement, dedication, dimension.
      (2)   In addition, all conditions as submitted by the City Council as a
result of the preliminary plat review must have been met or performed.
   (B)   Final plat and accompanying material shall be filed with the
Supervisor of Zoning within six months following the date of action on the
preliminary plat, otherwise the action shall be null and void.
   (C)   The Supervisor of Zoning shall check the filed material for conformity
with the requirements of the law and with these regulations, including
conformity with any conditions of approval of the preliminary plat by the City
Council, and the Engineer shall check the plat and survey for required
accuracy. If satisfactory, Supervisor of Zoning shall accept and issue a
receipt for the plat. If not satisfactory, the subdivider shall cause the
required changes and additions to be made before acceptance for filing an
issuance of a receipt.
(Ord. 84, passed - -2004)
§ 153.29 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Within 60 days after the issuance of the receipt for the filing of the
final plat with the Supervisor of Zoning, the City Council shall conduct a
public hearing thereon after notice of time and place thereof have been
published once in the official newspaper of the city at least ten days before
the day of the hearing. At the hearing, all persons interested in the plat
shall be heard and the Council may thereafter approve or disapprove the plat,
but failure of the Council to act upon the application within 60 days shall be
deemed approval. The grounds for any refusal to approve a plat shall be set
forth in the proceedings of the City Council and shall be reported in writing
to the subdivider. After approval of the final plat, the certificate of
approval showing thereon and the certified copy of the resolution of approval
accompanying it, it shall be filed with the County Recorder and with the city.
   (B)   Final plat approval shall be evidenced by a three-fifths majority vote
in favor thereof of the City Council, thereon.
(Ord. 84, passed - -2004)
§ 153.30 ZONING MAP.
   An approved preliminary combined unit development plan shall be so
designated on the zoning map by the letters CBU.DEV.
(Ord. 84, passed - -2004)
§ 153.31 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective after its adoption by the City
Council and its publication in the official newspaper of the city. A summary
publication is hereby approved. The ordinance codified herein was published on
4-30-2004.
(Ord. 84, passed - -2004)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Statutory authorization
   
154.002   Findings of fact
   
154.003   Statement of purpose
   
154.004   Lands to which chapter applies
   
154.005   Compliance
   
154.006   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.007   Interpretation
   
154.008   Disclaimer of liability
   
154.009   Severability
   
154.010   Definitions
Zoning Districts
   
154.025   Establishment of zoning districts
   
154.026   D-1 Dwelling Districts
   
154.027   D-2 Dwelling Districts
   
154.028   D-3 Dwelling Districts
   
154.029   C-1R Commercial Restricted Districts
   
154.030   C-1 Commercial Districts
   
154.031   M-1 Light Manufacturing Districts
   
154.032   M-2 Heavy Manufacturing Districts
   
154.033   M-5 Light Manufacturing Districts
   
154.034   A-1 Agricultural District
   
154.035   Mobile Home District
   
154.036   Educational District
   
154.037   Conditional uses
   
154.038   Nonconforming uses
Construction Restrictions and Regulations
   
154.050   D-1 and D-2 Dwelling Districts
   
154.051   D-3 Dwelling Districts
   
154.052   C-1R Commercial Restricted Districts
   
154.053   C-1 Commercial Districts
   
154.054   M-1, M-2, and M-5 Manufacturing District
   
154.055   MH Mobile Home District
   
154.056   A-1 Agricultural District
   
154.057   Accessory buildings or structures
   
154.058   Side, rear yard and lot width requirements
   
154.059   Reduction of yard requirements
   
154.060   Minimum construction for dwellings
   
154.061   Height restrictions
   
154.062   Loading docks
   
154.063   Visibility at intersections
   
154.064   Grade required
   
154.065   Buffer zoning
Administration
   
154.080   Supervisor of Zoning
   
154.081   Use permit required
   
154.082   Application for use permit
   
154.083   Suspension, revocation, reinstatement of use permit
   
154.084   Board of Appeal
   
154.085   Conditional use permits
   
154.086   Variances
   
154.087   Certificate of occupancy
   
154.088   Amendments
   
154.089   Opt-out of M.S. § 462.3593
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   The state has, in M.S. Ch. 462, (Housing, Redevelopment, Planning,
Zoning) § 462.357, as may be amended from time to time, authorized local
government to adopt regulations designed to regulate the use of land and
buildings.
   (B)   Therefore, the City Council does ordain the following.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.002 FINDINGS OF FACT.
   The city has been faced with problems in providing a more extensive means of
guiding development of land so as to ensure a safer, more pleasant and more
economical environment for residential, commercial, industrial and public
activities.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety,
general welfare and to ensure a safer, more pleasant and economical development
of lands within the city for residential, commercial and industrial activities.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.004 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all lands within the jurisdiction of the city as
delineated on the official map of the city, and pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, as
may be amended from time to time, to lands located within two miles of the city
limits in any direction, but shall not apply to lands which have a natural
average slope greater than 10%, and for which the Council will prescribe
specific regulations for use thereof and construction thereon.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.005 COMPLIANCE.
   No land shall hereafter be used and no structure shall hereafter be
constructed, altered, moved, demolished, added to or remodeled without full
compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations
which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.006 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   It is not intended by this chapter, to repeal, abrogate or impair any
existing easements, covenant or deed restrictions.
   (B)   However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.007 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally construed in
favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation or repeal of
any other powers granted by the state statutes.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.008 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the city or any
officer or employee thereof for any damages that may result from reliance on
this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.009 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder
of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.010 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Words used in the present tense include the future, words in the
masculine gender include the feminine; the singular number includes the plural
and the plural the singular, the word “lot” includes the word “structure”. The
word “person” includes a corporation or other organization.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or structure or portion of the
main building which is located on the lot of the main building and the use of
which is clearly incidental or subordinate to the use of the main building.
      ALLEYS. A public way less than 30 feet in width, affording a secondary
means of access to abutting property.
      APARTMENT HOTEL. A multiple-dwelling that furnishes for the uses of the
tenants services ordinarily furnished by hotels but the privileges of which are
not primarily available to the public and are not for transient trade.
      BILLBOARD. Advertising surface advertising business, service or events
off the premises of the owner.
      BLOCK. The property abutting on one side of a street between the two
nearest intersecting streets or other natural barriers.
      BOARDING HOUSE or LODGING HOUSE. A dwelling occupied by a single house-
keeping unit, where meals and lodging are provided for five or more persons for
compensation by previous arrangement, but not for transients.
      BUILDING LINE. The line beyond which no building or part thereof shall
project without special permission of the City Council.
      CONSERVATORY. A room enclosed in glass for growing and showing of plants,
but noncommercial or a school or academy of music or art.
      CONVALESCENT HOME. A public or semi-public institution designed for
caring of patients after they leave the hospital, but before they are released
from observation and treatment.
      CORNER LOT. Any lot, parcel or tract of land which abuts or is adjacent
to a street on two of its adjoining sides.
      COUNCIL. As used herein, shall refer to and mean the City Council.
      CURB LEVEL. The mean level of the curb in front of a lot or the
established elevation of the curb where it is not already constructed.
      DWELLING. A building or part thereof used exclusively as the home or
residence of one family, except where more than one family is specified.
      FAMILY. An individual or group of individuals related by blood, marriage
or adoption, non-paying guest or servants, living together as a single
housekeeping unit.
      HOME OCCUPATIONS. A customary occupation engaged in by the occupant only,
such as dressmaking, beauticians where no one is employed, and which is
operated solely out of the home.
      HOTEL. A building used as a temporary abiding place for a renumeration
with or without meals, with no provisions for cooking in the individual rooms.
      INTERIOR LOT. Any lot, parcel or tract of land which is located between
two intersections of streets and abutting the street on only one side, or any
lot with any two non-adjoining sides abutting streets.
      JUNK. Cast-off or salvage material of any sort that is sold, traded,
stored or put in use in other than the original form in which it was
manufactured including dismantled cars, rags, bottles, sacks, scrap-iron or
other salvage materials.
      LIVING UNIT. A room or group of rooms for use by a family as a dwelling.
      LOT. A recorded numbered parcel of a subdivision or to any parcel or
tract of land whether subdivided or not.
      MULTIPLE GARAGE. A neighborhood, community or group garage for a number
of motor vehicles for the use of the neighborhood or the dwellers in a
multiple-family dwelling.
      MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing three or more living
units or apartments.
      NONCONFORMING. A structure or land whose design or use does not conform
to the requirements of the district or of this chapter.
      NON-PROFIT. An organization, group or corporation, engaged in activities
not for the profit of itself or its members.
      OVERHANG. The projection of any portion of a building usually the roof
beyond the walls of the building.
      PERSON. Individuals, groups, organizations, associations, clubs,
partnerships and corporations.
      PLOT. A lot or parts of lots or an unplatted piece of land under one
ownership used for building site.
      PREMISE. A part of land, parcel, tract, lot or the land and the structure
upon it.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. Facilities of or being owned by the city.
      SETBACK. This term is used in connection with front yards to indicate the
distance from the street line to the building.
      SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, sludge from a water supply treatment plant
or air contaminant treatment facility, or other discarded waste materials and
sludges, in soil, semi-solid, liquid or contained gaseous form, resulting from
industrial, commercial, mining, or agricultural operations, or from community
activities, but does not include hazardous waste, animal waste used as
fertilizer, earthen fill, boulders, rock; sewage sludge, solid or dissolved
material in domestic sewage or other common pollutants in water resources, such
as silt, dissolved or suspended solids in industrial waste water effluents, or
discharges which are point sources subject to permits under Section 402 of the
Federal Waste Pollution Control Act, as amended; dissolved materials in
irrigation return flows; or source materials, special nuclear material, or by-
product material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended.
      SOLID WASTE TRANSFER STATION (SWTS). An intermediate solid waste disposal
facility in which solid waste collected from any source is temporarily
deposited to await transportation to another solid waste management facility.
      STORY. A section or horizontal division of a building extending from the
floor to the ceiling lying directly above the floor and not more than ten feet
in height.
      STREET. Any thoroughfare more than 30 feet in width, also a square,
terrace, place, court, lane, way or avenue dedicated as a right-of-way for
street purposes.
      TENANTS. A person occupying a building or portion thereof other than its
owner or a member of his or her household for a consideration.
      TRAILER OR MOTOR HOME. A vehicle used as sleeping or living quarters for
one or more persons having no foundation other than wheels or jacks and
propelled by its own or by other power-driven vehicle to which it may be
attached.
      WIDTH. The narrowest side of a lot.
      YARD. The open unoccupied space between a building and the front street
line, the space between the building and side lot line, the space between the
building and rear lot line known respectively as the front, side and rear yard,
the front street line being the front property line as the block has been
developed or the dividing line between the lot and the principal street and
side lot line being the property line between two adjoining properties and the
rear lot line being opposite the front line as the lots are platted.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979; Ord. 8.46, passed 1-25-2010)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 154.025 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   There is hereby created an official zoning map of the city upon which,
for the purpose of this chapter the city shall be divided into the following
districts:
C-1  Commercial District
C-1R Commercial Restricted District
D-1  Single-family Dwelling District
D-2  Double Family Dwelling District
D-3  Multiple-family Dwelling District
ED   Educational District
M-1  Light Manufacturing District
M-2  Heavy Manufacturing District
MH   Mobile Home District
 
   (B)   (1)   The boundary lines of the districts shown on the official zoning
map are the center lines of streets; the center lines of alleys; the rear lot
lines where there are no alleys; the side lot line of a recorded lot or a
designated distance where the land is unplatted. Where any uncertainty exists
of any line, the proper location shall be determined by a survey at the owner’s
expense.
      (2)   Within these zoning districts, all uses not allowed as permitted
uses or permissible as conditional uses shall be prohibited.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.026 D-1 DWELLING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (3)   Fire station;
      (4)   Swimming pools;
      (5)   Tilling of soil;
      (6)   Accessory buildings such as and only one or more private garages
for storage of not more than a total of three cars, pick-ups, jeeps or
combinations thereof and wooden or metal utility storage sheds not larger than
150 square foot floor area;
      (7)   Concrete and bituminous driveways, sidewalks, patios;
      (8)   Fences; and
      (9)   Additions to or remodeling of the same permitted use.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Libraries;
      (2)   Museums;
      (3)   Churches, enclosed only;
      (4)   Social and community centers of non-profit organizations;
      (5)   Public utility, community and recreational buildings or structures
of or belonging only to the city;
      (6)   Golf courses, driving ranges or miniature golf;
      (7)   Truck garden;
      (8)   Offices of doctors, attorneys, dentists, certified public
accountants, public accountant or chiropractors, artists, musicians;
      (9)   Additions to or remodeling of the same approved conditional use;
      (10)   Customary home occupations with no employees; and
      (11)   Wooden or metal utility storage sheds larger than 150 square feet
in floor area.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.027 D-2 DWELLING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Two-family dwellings;
      (2)   Single-family dwellings;
      (3)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (4)   Fire station;
      (5)   Swimming pools;
      (6)   Tilling of soil;
      (7)   Concrete driveways, patios and sidewalks;
      (8)   Fences;
      (9)   Accessory buildings such as and only one or more private garages
for storage of not more than a total of three cars, four for a two-family
dwelling, pick-ups, jeeps or combinations thereof and wooden or metal storage
sheds not larger than 150 square feet of floor area; and
      (10)   Additions to or remodeling of the same permitted use.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Libraries;
      (2)   Museums;
      (3)   Churches, enclosed only;
      (4)   Social and community centers of non-profit organizations;
      (5)   Public utility, community and recreational buildings or structures
of or belonging to the city;
      (6)   Golf courses, driving ranges or miniature golf;
      (7)   Truck garden;
      (8)   Offices of doctors, attorneys, dentists, certified public
accountants, public accountants, chiropractors, artists or musicians;
      (9)   Wooden or metal utility storage sheds larger than 150 square feet
in floor area;
      (10)   Additions to or remodeling of the same approved conditional use;
and
      (11)   Customary home occupations with no employees.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.028 D-3 DWELLING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings;
      (4)   Fire station;
      (5)   Swimming pools;
      (6)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (7)   Tilling of soil;
      (8)   Accessory buildings, such as and only, one or more private garages
for autos owned by tenants of multiple-family dwellings;
      (9)   Accessory buildings, such as and only, one or more private garages
for storage of not more than a total of three cars, four for two-family
dwelling use, pick-ups, jeeps or combinations thereof for single-family use;
      (10)   Metal or wood storage utility sheds not larger than 150 square
feet in floor area;
      (11)   Concrete or bituminous driveways, patios or sidewalks;
      (12)   Fences; and
      (13)   Additions to or remodeling of the same permitted use.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Libraries;
      (2)   Museums;
      (3)   Churches, enclosed only;
      (4)   Social and community centers of non-profit organizations;
      (5)   Public utility, community and recreational buildings of or
belonging to the city;
      (6)   Truck garden;
      (7)   Boarding house, lodging house, fraternities;
      (8)   Customary home occupation with no employees;
      (9)   Wooden or metal utility storage sheds larger than 150 square feet
in floor area;
      (10)   Offices of doctors, attorneys, certified public accountants,
dentists, chiropractors, artists or musicians;
      (11)   Apartment hotels; and
      (12)   Additions to or remodeling of the same approved conditional use.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.029 C-1R COMMERCIAL RESTRICTED DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Lighting fixture sales and manufacturing;
      (2)   Bar and restaurant supply sales;
      (3)   Churches;
      (4)   Fire station;
      (5)   Art galleries;
      (6)   Tilling of soil;
      (7)   Accessory buildings, incidental to the principle use including
garages for storage of vehicles used in operation of the permitted use;
      (8)   Social and community centers;
      (9)   Offices of doctors, attorneys, dentists, certified public or public
accountants, chiropractors, or artists, musicians;
      (10)   Apartment hotels;
      (11)   Motels;
      (12)   Grocery or delicatessen;
      (13)   Music store;
      (14)   Agency for dry cleaning pick-up;
      (15)   Confectionery or ice cream shop;
      (16)   Retail bakery;
      (17)   Barber and beauty shops;
      (18)   Office buildings;
      (19)   Drug stores;
      (20)   Metal or wood storage sheds not larger than 150 square feet in
floor area;
      (21)   Office of the city;
      (22)   Swimming pools;
      (23)   Vending machine sales and service;
      (24)   Banks, savings and loan association and finance offices;
      (25)   Hotels;
      (26)   Job printing;
      (27)   Bus or taxi depot;
      (28)   Office of an engineer or architect;
      (29)   Photo service and camera shop;
      (30)   Hardware stores;
      (31)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (32)   Clothing stores;
      (33)   Building materials sales;
      (34)   Appliance store;
      (35)   Self service laundry;
      (36)   Automobile, truck, motorcycle, boat, outboard motor, snowmobile,
camper and motor home sales and service;
      (37)   Floor covering sales;
      (38)   Bowling alleys;
      (39)   Sale of new or used auto or truck parts;
      (40)   Retail meat sales where there is no slaughtering;
      (41)   Jewelry sales;
      (42)   Donut shop;
      (43)   Office supply and office equipment sales and service;
      (44)   Office of a construction contractor;
      (45)   Electronic equipment and appliance sales and service;
      (46)   Bicycle sales and service;
      (47)   Sporting goods sales;
      (48)   Eye glass or hearing aid sales;
      (49)   Realtors offices;
      (50)   Furniture sales;
      (51)   Photography studios;
      (52)   Concrete or bituminous driveways, patios or sidewalks;
      (53)   Fences; and
      (54)   Additions to or remodeling of the same permitted use.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwelling, not subdivisions;
      (2)   Public utility, community and recreational buildings of or
belonging to the city;
      (3)   Golf courses, driving range or miniature golf;
      (4)   Two-family dwelling;
      (5)   Multiple-family dwellings;
      (6)   Wholesale plumbing and or electrical supply;
      (7)   Advertising sign manufacturing and sales;
      (8)   Boarding house, lodging house, fraternities;
      (9)   Conservatories;
      (10)   Tire sales and service;
      (11)   Car wash;
      (12)   Wooden or metal utility storage sheds larger than 150 square feet
in floor area;
      (13)   Rental sales;
      (14)   Museums;
      (15)   Truck garden;
      (16)   Libraries;
      (17)   Welding supply storage facility;
      (18)   Social and community centers (non-profit);
      (19)   Launderers;
      (20)   Laundromat;
      (21)   Conservatory for flowers;
      (22)   Customary home occupation with no employees;
      (23)   Dry cleaners;
      (24)   Indoor theater;
      (25)   Newspaper;
      (26)   TV or radio station;
      (27)   Telephone exchange;
      (28)   Restaurants and supper clubs;
      (29)   Taverns;
      (30)   Mortuaries and crematoriums;
      (31)   Gasoline filling stations;
      (32)   Additions to or remodeling of the same approved conditional use;
and
      (33)   Wholesale beer and beverage distributors.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979; Ord. 8.35, passed 4-3-2000)
§ 154.030 C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Art galleries;
      (2)   Churches, enclosed only;
      (3)   Car washes;
      (4)   Veterinary hospital, clinic office;
      (5)   Vending machine sales;
      (6)   Swimming pools;
      (7)   Realtors office;
      (8)   Photo service and camera shop;
      (9)   Office of the city;
      (10)   Municipal liquor on/off sales;
      (11)   Metal or wood storage sheds;
      (12)   Light fixture sales and manufacturing;
      (13)   Laundromat;
      (14)   Social and community centers;
      (15)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (16)   Tilling of soil;
      (17)   Office of a doctor, attorney, dentist, certified public or public
accountant or chiropractor, artist or musician;
      (18)   Accessory building incidental to the principle use including
garages for storage of vehicles used in operation of the permitted use;
      (19)   Apartment hotels;
      (20)   Wholesale plumbing and/or electrical supply;
      (21)   Job printing;
      (22)   Newspaper;
      (23)   Bus or taxi depot;
      (24)   Self service laundry;
      (25)   Auto, truck, motorcycle, marine, snowmobile, camper and motor home
sales and service;
      (26)   Sale of new or used auto or truck parts;
      (27)   Retail meat sales where there is no slaughter;
      (28)   Launderers;
      (29)   Wholesale meat sales where there is no slaughter;
      (30)   Concrete or bituminous driveways patios or sidewalks;
      (31)   Fences;
      (32)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (33)   Grocery or delicatessen;
      (34)   Agency for dry cleaning pick-up;
      (35)   Confectionery or ice cream shop;
      (36)   Bakery retail non-production manufacture environment;
      (37)   Barber or beauty shops;
      (38)   Photography studios;
      (39)   Office buildings;
      (40)   Drug stores;
      (41)   Banks, savings and loan associations, finance offices;
      (42)   Hotels, motels;
      (43)   Hardware stores;
      (44)   Clothing stores;
      (45)   Building materials sales where there is no outside storage;
      (46)   Appliance store;
      (47)   Floor covering sales;
      (48)   Restaurants and supper clubs;
      (49)   Bowling alley;
      (50)   Mortuaries and crematoriums;
      (51)   Gasoline filling station;
      (52)   Bar and restaurant supply sales;
      (53)   Donut shop;
      (54)   Electronic equipment testing and manufacturing;
      (55)   Retail lawn and garden center;
      (56)   Electric motor sales and service;
      (57)   Fire station;
      (58)   Jewelry store;
      (59)   Office equipment and office supply sales and service;
      (60)   Office of a construction contractor;
      (61)   Electronic equipment and appliance sales and service;
      (62)   Bicycle sales and service;
      (63)   Sporting goods sales and service;
      (64)   Eye glass and hearing aid sales and service;
      (65)   Furniture sales;
      (66)   Music store;
      (67)   Tire sales and service;
      (68)   Office of engineer or architect;
      (69)   Dry cleaners;
      (70)   Mortuary and crematorium;
      (71)   Small engine sales and service;
      (72)   Auto body shop; and
      (73)   Additions to or remodeling of the same permitted uses.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Boarding house, lodging houses, fraternities;
      (2)   Cold storage;
      (3)   Conservatories;
      (4)   Conservatory for flowers;
      (5)   Customary home occupation with no employees;
      (6)   Eye glass or hearing aid sales;
      (7)   Golf course, driving range or miniature golf;
      (8)   Indoor theater;
      (9)   Libraries;
      (10)   Museums;
      (11)   Nursery or green houses;
      (12)   Public utility, community and recreational buildings or structures
of or belonging to the city;
      (13)   TV or radio station;
      (14)   Rental sales;
      (15)   Social and community centers, non-profit;
      (16)   Telephone exchange;
      (17)   Taverns;
      (18)   Truck garden;
      (19)   Warehouse;
      (20)   Automotive and truck rust proofing;
      (21)   Wholesale bakery;
      (22)   Billboard;
      (23)   Single-family dwelling;
      (24)   Two-family dwellings;
      (25)   Multiple-family dwellings;
      (26)   Advertising sign manufacturing, sales and service;
      (27)   Welding supply storage facility;
      (28)   Wholesale beverage distributors;
      (29)   Wholesale welding supply;
      (30)   Wholesale grocery distributor; and
      (31)   Additions to or remodeling of the same conditional uses.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979; Ord. 8.35, passed 4-3-2000)
§ 154.031 M-1 LIGHT MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Laundromat;
      (2)   Lighting fixture manufacturing;
      (3)   Lighting fixture sales;
      (4)   Office of the city;
      (5)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (6)   Swimming pools;
      (7)   Tire sales and service;
      (8)   Vending machine sales and service;
      (9)   Veterinary hospital/office;
      (10)   Wholesale beverage distributors;
      (11)   Wholesale welding supplies;
      (12)   Wholesale grocery distributors;
      (13)   Wholesale meat sales (no slaughter);
      (14)   Agency for dry cleaning pick-up;
      (15)   Advertising sign, manufacturing, sales and service;
      (16)   Automotive repair equipment manufacturing;
      (17)   Automotive and truck rust proofing;
      (18)   Tilling of soil;
      (19)   Wholesale plumbing and/or electric supply;
      (20)   Sale of new or used auto or truck parts;
      (21)   Job printing;
      (22)   Newspaper;
      (23)   Self service laundry;
      (24)   Welding and machine shops;
      (25)   Bottling works;
      (26)   Building material storage;
      (27)   Launderers;
      (28)   Cold storage;
      (29)   Contractors yards;
      (30)   Truck terminals;
      (31)   Warehouses;
      (32)   Welding supply storage facility;
      (33)   Dry cleaners;
      (34)   Knitting mill;
      (35)   Wrecker service where no junk yard activities are carried on;
      (36)   Additions to or remodeling of the same permitted use;
      (37)   Fire station;
      (38)   Gasoline filling stations;
      (39)   Building material sales (all material stored in buildings);
      (40)   Electric motor sales and service;
      (41)   Wholesale bakery;
      (42)   Concrete and bituminous driveways, patios, sidewalks;
      (43)   Fences;
      (44)   Electronic equipment and appliance sales/service;
      (45)   Accessory buildings incidental to the principal use including
garages for storage of vehicles used in operation of permitted use; and
      (46)   Car wash.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Municipal liquor sales;
      (2)   Eye glass and hearing aid sales;
      (3)   Floor covering sales;
      (4)   Furniture sales;
      (5)   Golf course, driving range, miniature golf;
      (6)   Grocery or delicatessen;
      (7)   Hydraulic equipment manufacturing;
      (8)   Hardware store;
      (9)   Hotel;
      (10)   Indoor theater;
      (11)   Jewelry sales;
      (12)   Libraries;
      (13)   Material handling equipment manufacturing;
      (14)   Mobile home sales;
      (15)   Mortuaries and crematoriums;
      (16)   Museums;
      (17)   Music store;
      (18)   Office of doctor, attorney;
      (19)   Billboard;
      (20)   Public utility, community and recreational buildings of or
belonging to the city;
      (21)   Motels;
      (22)   Coal and coke storage;
      (23)   Bowling alleys;
      (24)   Furniture manufacture;
      (25)   Mobile or modular home manufacturer;
      (26)   Implement sales and service;
      (27)   Propane storage facilities;
      (28)   Petroleum storage facilities;
      (29)   Additions to or remodeling of the same approved conditional use so
long as the maximum use requirement is not exceeded;
      (30)   Clothing store;
      (31)   Confectionery or ice cream shop;
      (32)   Conservatories;
      (33)   Appliance store;
      (34)   Auto, truck, motorcycle, boat, outboard motor, snowmobile camper
and motor home sales/service;
      (35)   Auto body shop;
      (36)   Bar and restaurant supply/sales;
      (37)   Bakery, retail;
      (38)   Banks, savings and loan association finance office;
      (39)   Barber and beauty shops;
      (40)   Bicycle sales and service;
      (41)   Bus or taxi depot;
      (42)   Concrete ready mix plants;
      (43)   Conservatory for flowers;
      (44)   Concrete silos or storage bins;
      (45)   Nursery or green house;
      (46)   Donut shop;
      (47)   Drug stores;
      (48)   Office of doctor, attorney, dentist, certified public or public
accountant, chiropractor, artist or musician;
      (49)   Office buildings;
      (50)   Office supply and office equipment sales and service;
      (51)   Office of a construction contractor;
      (52)   Office of an engineer or architect;
      (53)   Photo service and camera shop;
      (54)   Photography studios;
      (55)   TV or radio station;
      (56)   Realtors office;
      (57)   Restaurants and supper clubs;
      (58)   Rental sales;
      (59)   Retail meat sales (no slaughtering);
      (60)   Semi trailer sales and service;
      (61)   Social and community centers;
      (62)   Sporting goods sales;
      (63)   Telephone exchange;
      (64)   Taverns;
      (65)   Tire retreading and manufacturing;
      (66)   Truck garden; and
      (67)   Wood or wood project manufacturing.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979; Ord. 8.35, passed 4-3-2000)
§ 154.032 M-2 HEAVY MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Wrecker service where no junk yard activities are carried on;
      (2)   Tilling of soil;
      (3)   Nursery, green house;
      (4)   Bus or taxi depot;
      (5)   Welding and machine shops;
      (6)   Bottling works;
      (7)   Building material storage;
      (8)   Coal and coke storage;
      (9)   Cold storage;
      (10)   Contractor yards;
      (11)   Truck terminals;
      (12)   Concrete plants;
      (13)   Block plants;
      (14)   Furniture manufacture;
      (15)   Mobile home or modular home manufacture;
      (16)   Implement sales and services;
      (17)   Additions to or remodeling of the same permitted use;
      (18)   Office of the city;
      (19)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (20)   Semi trailer sales and service;
      (21)   Wood or wood product manufacturing;
      (22)   Warehouses;
      (23)   Welding supply storage facility;
      (24)   Wholesale beverage distributors;
      (25)   Wholesale welding supply;
      (26)   Wholesale meat sales (no slaughtering);
      (27)   Wholesale plumbing and/or electrical supply;
      (28)   Agency for dry cleaning pick-up;
      (29)   Advertising sign manufacturing, sales and service;
      (30)   Automotive repair equipment manufacturing;
      (31)   Automotive and truck rust proofing;
      (32)   Gasoline filling station;
      (33)   Lighting fixture sales and manufacturing;
      (34)   Building material sales (all materials stored in buildings);
      (35)   Concrete and bituminous driveways, sidewalks, patios;
      (36)   Electronic equipment testing and manufacturing;
      (37)   Electronic equipment and appliance sales and service;
      (38)   Material handling equipment manufacturing;
      (39)   Novelty manufacturing;
      (40)   Newspaper;
      (41)   Hydraulic equipment manufacturing;
      (42)   Electric motor sales and service;
      (43)   Wholesale bakeries;
      (44)   Bituminous plants;
      (45)   Concrete silos or storage bins;
      (46)   Feed grinding and mixing plant;
      (47)   Foundry;
      (48)   Fences;
      (49)   Fire stations;
      (50)   Knitting mill;
      (51)   Laundromat;
      (52)   Launderers;
      (53)   Car wash; and
      (54)   Accessory buildings incidental to the principal use, including
garages for storage of vehicles used in operation of the permitted use.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Animal shelter;
      (2)   Auto body shop;
      (3)   Petroleum storage;
      (4)   Photo service or camera shop;
      (5)   Processing of dairy products, except cheese factory;
      (6)   Retail meat (no slaughtering);
      (7)   Self service laundry;
      (8)   Swimming pools;
      (9)   Telephone exchange;
      (10)   Tire sales and service;
      (11)   Truck garden;
      (12)   Vending machine sales/service;
      (13)   Veterinary hospital/office;
      (14)   Billboard;
      (15)   Propane or natural gas storage facility;
      (16)   Public utility, community and recreational buildings of or
belonging to the city;
      (17)   Motels, office and buildings;
      (18)   Bar and restaurant supply sales;
      (19)   Donut shop;
      (20)   Office supply and equipment sales and service;
      (21)   Office of construction contractor;
      (22)   Mobile home sales;
      (23)   Golf course, driving range, miniature golf;
      (24)   Slaughter houses;
      (25)   Grocery or delicatessen;
      (26)   Hardware store;
      (27)   Office of an engineer or architect;
      (28)   Tire retreading and manufacture;
      (29)   Confectionery or ice cream shop;
      (30)   Additions to or remodeling of the same approved conditional use;
      (31)   Libraries;
      (32)   Museums;
      (33)   Restaurants and supper clubs; and
      (34)   Rental sales.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.033 M-5 LIGHT MANUFACTURING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Permitted uses. Same as an M-1 Light Manufacturing District plus a
solid waste transfer station (SWTS). See §
154.031(A).
   (B)   Conditional uses. Same as an M-1 Light Manufacturing District. See §
154.031(B).
   (C)   Effective date. This section shall be in full force and effect after
its adoption by the City Council and the publication of a summary of this
section in the official newspaper of the city.
(Ord. 8.46, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 154.034 A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Raising, harvesting and sale of crops including produce, nursery
stock and trees;
      (2)   Grazing of cattle, sheep, llamas or horses;
      (3)   Milk production not including the use of a manure pond, pit or feed
lot;
      (4)   Hunting in accordance with State Department of Natural Resources
laws and regulations;
      (5)   Discharge of firearms during daylight hours;
      (6)   Single-family farm dwelling and its accessory buildings located on
each farm provided the resident of the dwelling either owns, operates or is
employed on the farm;
      (7)   Out-buildings for the storage of agricultural equipment, supplies,
feeds, grain or protection or housing of livestock;
      (8)   City parks and recreational areas;
      (9)   Swimming pools;
      (10)   Vehicle garage;
      (11)   Concrete or bituminous driveways, earthen or crushed rock roads;
      (12)   Fences, including electric or barbed wire;
      (13)   Enclosed churches, cemeteries;
      (14)   Social or community centers;
      (15)   Public utilities, community or recreational buildings or other
structures of or belonging to the city, county or state;
      (16)   Golf courses or driving ranges;
      (17)   Truck gardens;
      (18)   Offices of doctors, attorneys, dentists, public accountants,
chiropractors, artists, musicians or other like professionals;
      (19)   Farm shops and facilities for the maintenance of agricultural
equipment;
      (20)   Storage of agricultural crops, farm supplies including
fertilizers, seed, grain or animal feed; and
      (21)   Temporary or seasonal roadside stands with adequate off-street
parking, not exceeding one stand per farm.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Manure ponds or pits;
      (2)   Raising of chickens or egg production;
      (3)   Cattle yards or feed lots;
      (4)   Raising of turkeys, ducks or other fowl or birds;
      (5)   Raising of swine;
      (6)   Raising of fur bearing animals;
      (7)   Soil extraction or removal;
      (8)   Field drainage systems, flood control and watershed structures and
erosion control devices;
      (9)   Historic sites and monuments, scenic lookouts and public recreation
information centers;
      (10)   Power lines, broadcast towers or television structures;
      (11)   Home occupations including crop seed sales;
      (12)   Commercial grain storage or drying;
      (13)   Commercial sawmills and lumber processing or treatment plants;
      (14)   Commercial outdoor recreation areas including private campgrounds;
      (15)   Horse stables or dog kennels;
      (16)   National, state or county parks or recreation areas;
      (17)   Non-farm dwellings; and
      (18)   Federal, state or county facilities or structures.
(Ord. 8.35, passed 4-3-2000)
§ 154.035 MOBILE HOME DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Social community and recreation centers (non-profit organizations);
      (2)   Public or private parks and playgrounds;
      (3)   Tilling of soil;
      (4)   Agency for dry cleaning pick-up;
      (5)   Fire station;
      (6)   Mobile home sales;
      (7)   Accessory buildings, such as and only, one or more private garages
for storage of not more than a total of three cars, pick-ups, jeeps or
combinations thereof and wooden or metal storage sheds not larger than ten feet
by 12 feet;
      (8)   Self service laundry;
      (9)   Swimming pools;
      (10)   Mobile home as a single-family dwelling;
      (11)   Concrete or bituminous sidewalks, driveways or patios;
      (12)   Fences;
      (13)   Mobile home parks or courts; and
      (14)   Additions to or remodeling of the same permitted use.
   (B)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Golf course, miniature golf, driving range;
      (2)   Museums;
      (3)   Telephone exchange; and
      (4)   Truck garden.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.036 EDUCATIONAL DISTRICT.
   An Educational District shall be designated for an area where the process of
education is carried on, whether publicly, privately or parochially operated.
The proposed use of any lands for an educational district shall be viewed on an
individual basis and appropriate restrictions in harmony with the general
intent of this chapter shall be promulgated by the City Council therefore.
However, nothing contained herein shall allow the variance from provision of
this chapter to a greater degree then permitted for any other structure within
the zoning district in which the land exists.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.037 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Are permitted only upon application to the Zoning Administrator and approval
and issuance of a special permit by the City Council as provided in §
154.085.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.038 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any use of buildings or land existing at the time of passage of this
chapter that does not conform to the regulation prescribed in this chapter
shall be deemed a nonconforming use.
   (B)   A nonconforming use may be continued subject to such regulations as
may, in the judgement of the City Council, be required for promoting health,
safety, order, convenience, prosperity and general welfare of those using the
adjoining property, taking into consideration the condition and age of the
building the better use of the, land and the time required to amortize the
value.
   (C)   A nonconforming use shall not be changed unless changed to a
conforming use. A nonconforming use, if changed to a conforming use, may not
thereafter be changed back to a nonconforming use. Additional nonconforming
buildings for the same use upon the same land and structural alterations made
in a nonconforming building may only be constructed or made after approval and
issuance of a conditional use permit by the City Council.
   (D)   If any existing nonconforming use of building or land is abandoned for
more than one year, it cannot be resumed.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
CONSTRUCTION RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 154.050 D-1 AND D-2 DWELLING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Set back or front yard. In a block in the D-1 and D-2 Dwelling
Districts, the set back shall be 25 feet if there are no buildings constructed
upon the two adjacent and abutting lots. If there exists a building on each
adjacent and abutting lot, then the set back of the building contemplated shall
be the average of the set backs of the two buildings on the two adjacent and
abutting lots. If only one adjacent and abutting lot has a building constructed
upon it; then, the set back of the building contemplated shall be the average
of the set back of the adjacent lots building and 25 feet. For corner lots, the
set back shall be 25 feet; provided that, if a building has been constructed on
the adjacent and abutting lot the set back shall be the average of 25 feet and
the set back of the building on the adjacent lot, except that this provision
shall not be construed to permit structures within visibility limits at corner.
   (B)   Side yards. Each lot in a D-1 or D-2 Dwelling District upon which a
one story or a one and one-half story dwelling is to be located shall have two
side yards, one on each side of the building. The width of each of the two
yards shall not be less than five feet, except that for a dwelling greater than
a story and one-half the width of each side yard shall be increased two feet
for each additional story above a one and one-half story dwelling.
   (C)   Rear yards. Each lot in a D-1 or D-2 Dwelling District shall have a
rear yard not less than 25 feet; provided that, unattached accessory buildings
may be constructed in the rear yard in accordance with §
154.057.
   (D)   Minimum dimensions. No lot in a D-1 or D-2 Dwelling District may be
constructed upon which has a frontage of less than 60 feet or an area of less
than 7,000 square feet.
   (E)   Off-street parking. Each lot in a D-1 Dwelling District must provide
not less than two parking spaces and each lot in a D-2 Dwelling District must
provide not less than four off-street parking areas. In either district no part
of the public right-of-way upon which the lots may abut shall be used to meet
the requirement as set forth herein.
   (F)   Garages/accessory structures.
      (1)   No garage or accessory structure or building may be constructed
within a D-1 or D-2 Dwelling District the average of whose sidewall and roof
peak the height exceeds 14 feet; or whose ground floor area exceeds 80% of the
ground floor area of the dwelling located upon the same parcel, tract or lot;
or whose exterior finish is not wood, brick or stone or does not have the
appearance of wood. Lots, parcels or tracts of land upon which no dwelling has
been constructed may have garages or accessory structures constructed upon them
no larger than 1,152 square feet as measured at ground level and shall be
subject to all other applicable provisions thereof.
      (2)   This division (F) shall be in full force and effect from and after
its passage by the City Council and after its publication in the official
newspaper of the city. The ordinance codified herein was published on 6-30-
1995.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979; Ord. 8.34, passed 6-19-1995)
§ 154.051 D-3 DWELLING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Set back or front yard. In a block in the D-3 Dwelling Districts, the
set back shall be 25 feet if there are no buildings constructed upon the two
adjacent and abutting lots. If there exists a building on each adjacent and
abutting lot, then the set back of the building contemplated shall be the
average of the set backs of the two buildings on the two adjacent and abutting
lots. If only one adjacent and abutting lot has a building constructed upon it,
then the set back of the building contemplated shall be the average of the set
back of the adjacent lots building and 25 feet. For corner lots, the set back
shall be the 25 feet; provided that, if a building has been constructed on the
adjacent and abutting lot the set back shall be the average of 25 feet, and the
set back of the building on the adjacent lot, except that this provision shall
not be construed to permit a structure within visibility limits at corners.
   (B)   Side yards. Each lot in a D-3 Dwelling District shall have two side
yards, one on each side of the building. The width of each of the two yards
shall not be less than five feet, except that for a dwelling greater than a
story and one half in height the side yards shall be five feet, plus three feet
for every story or part thereof above a story and one-half building.
   (C)   Rear yards. Each lot in a D-3 Dwelling District shall have a rear yard
not less than 25 feet; provided that, unattached accessory buildings may be
constructed in the rear yard in accordance with §
154.057.
   (D)   Minimum dimensions. No lot in a D-3 Dwelling District may be
constructed upon which has a frontage of less than 62 feet or an area of less
than 2,400 square feet per three-bedroom living unit, 2,000 square feet per
two-bedroom living unit or 1,800 square feet per single-bedroom living unit;
provided that, nothing contained herein may be construed to permit the
construction of a D-1 or D-2 dwelling in a D-3 Dwelling District upon a lot
with an area of less than 7,000 square feet.
   (E)   Off-street parking. Each lot in a D-3 Dwelling District must provide
not less than two parking spaces per living unit no part of which may be public
right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.052 C-1R COMMERCIAL RESTRICTED DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Set back or front yard. In a block in a C-1R Commercial District the
set back shall be 25 feet if there are no buildings constructed upon the two
adjacent and abutting lots. If there exists a building on each adjacent and
abutting lot, then the set back of the building contemplated shall be the
average of the set backs of the two buildings on the two adjacent and abutting
lots. If only one adjacent and abutting lot has a building constructed upon it,
then the set back of the building contemplated shall be the average of the set
back of the adjacent lots building and 25 feet. For corner lots, the set back
shall be the 25 feet; provided that, if a building has been constructed on the
adjacent and abutting lot the set back shall be the average of 25 feet and the
set back of the building on the adjacent lot, except that this provision shall
not be construed to permit structures within visibility limits at corners.
   (B)   Side yards. Each lot in a C-1R Commercial, District shall have two
side yards, one on each side of the building. The width of each of the two
yards shall not be less than five feet, plus one foot for every four feet or
portion thereof above 16 feet in height of the building as measured at the
tallest point of the building; provided, however, that, where it appears a
business district is developing as determined by City Council buildings may be
constructed adjacent to each other or several businesses may be housed in the
same building all subject to approval and issuance of a conditional use permit
by the City Council.
   (C)   Rear yards. Each lot in a C-1R Commercial District shall have a rear
yard the depth of which shall not be less than ten feet; provided that,
unattached one story accessory buildings with a ground floor area of 1,440
square feet or less may be located in the rear yard in accordance with §
154.057. Buildings with ground floor areas greater than 1,440 square feet shall
be subject to all provisions hereof.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.053 C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Set back or front yard. In a block in a C-1 Commercial District the
set back shall be 25 feet, if there are no buildings constructed upon the two
adjacent and abutting lots. If there exists a building on each adjacent and
abutting lot, then the set back of the building contemplated shall be the
average of the set backs of the two buildings on the two adjacent and abutting
lots. If only one adjacent and abutting lot has a building constructed upon it,
then the set back of the building contemplated shall be the average of the set
back of the adjacent lots building and 25 feet. For corner lots, the set back
shall be the 25 feet; provided that, if a building has been constructed on the
adjacent and abutting lot the set back shall be the average of 25 feet and the
set back of the building on the adjacent lot, except that this provision shall
not be construed to permit structures within visibility limits at corners.
   (B)   Side yards. Each lot in a C-1 Commercial District shall have two side
yards, one on each side of the building. The width of each of the two yards
shall not be less than five feet, plus one foot for every four feet or portion
thereof above 16 feet in height of the building as measured at the tallest
point of the building.
   (C)   Rear yards. Each lot in a C-1 Commercial District shall have a rear
yard the depth of which shall not be less than ten feet provided that
unattached one story accessory buildings with a ground floor area of 1,440
square feet or less may be located in the rear yard in accordance with §
154.057. Accessory buildings with areas greater than 1,440 square feet shall be
subject to all provisions hereof.
   (D)   Minimum dimensions. No lot in a C-1 Commercial District may be
constructed which has a frontage of less than 50 feet.
   (E)   Maximum use. No lot in a C-1 Commercial Restricted District may have
constructed upon it buildings or storage areas which reduce the area of the lot
to an area upon which off-street parking cannot be provided for all employees
vehicles of the occupying enterprise or the type of enterprise which might be
expected to occupy the buildings.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.054 M-1, M-2, AND M-5 MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Set back or front yard. In an M-1, M-2, and M-5 Manufacturing
District, no building shall be erected less than a distance of 25 feet from the
front lot line.
   (B)   Side yards. Each lot in an M-1, M-2, and M-5 Manufacturing District
shall have two side yards one on each side of the building. The width of each
of two side yards shall not be less than five feet, plus one foot for every
four feet or portion thereof above 16 feet in height of the building as
measured at the tallest point of the building.
   (C)   Rear yards. Each lot in an M-1, M-2, and M-5 Manufacturing District
shall have a rear yard the depth of which shall not be less than ten feet;
provided that, unattached accessory buildings with a ground floor area of 1,440
square feet or less may be located in the rear yard in accordance with §
154.057. Accessory buildings with areas greater than 1,440 square feet shall be
subject to all provisions hereof.
   (D)   Minimum dimension. No lot in an M-1, M-2, and M-5 Manufacturing
District shall be constructed upon which has a frontage of less than 60 feet.
   (E)   Maximum use. No lot in an M-1, M-2, and M-5 Manufacturing may have
constructed upon it buildings or storage areas which reduce the area of lot to
an area upon which off-street parking cannot be provided for all employees
vehicles of the occupying enterprise or of the type of enterprise which might
be expected to occupy the buildings.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979; Ord. 8.46, passed 1-25-2010)
§ 154.055 MH MOBILE HOME DISTRICT.
   (A)   Minimum dimensions. Each lot upon which a mobile home is to be parked
shall not have a frontage of less than 40 feet nor a length of less than 100
feet. No mobile homes when placed end to end may be closer than 15 feet.
   (B)   Off-street parking. Each lot in a mobile home district shall have two
parking spaces for autos no part of which may be street right-of-way.
   (C)   Sanitary sewers. No mobile home district shall be permitted to use as
a sewage disposal system, septic tanks, drainage fields or dry wells when city
sanitary sewers are available.
   (D)   Garbage and rubbish. Each owner or the owner of the mobile home park
shall contract the removal of garbage and rubbish from the park.
   (E)   Office. Each mobile home park owner shall construct and maintain an
office at the park and shall on a regular schedule have an individual on duty
at the office.
   (F)   Fire protection. Each mobile home park shall provide and construct
fire hydrants at locations and in numbers approved by the City Engineer
throughout any mobile home district.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.056 A-1 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Set back or front yard. In an agricultural district no dwelling shall
be erected less than a distance of 25 feet from the front property line. No
accessory building or agricultural building shall be erected less than a
distance of 65 feet from the front property line, except that garages for the
storage of vehicles associated with a dwelling may be located not less than 25
feet from the front property line. Unattached garages for the storage of
vehicles associated with a dwelling may not be located less than five feet from
side and rear property lines which measurement shall be made to the overhang of
the garage if any.
   (B)   Side yards. In an agricultural district no dwelling shall be erected
less than a distance of ten feet from the side property line. No accessory
building or agricultural building shall be constructed less than 20 feet from
the side property line.
   (C)   Rear yards. In an agricultural district, no dwelling shall be erected
less than a distance of 25 feet from the rear property line. No accessory
building or agricultural building shall be erected less than 20 feet from the
rear property line.
   (D)   Minimum dimensions. Non-farm dwellings may be constructed on not less
than one acre of land plus any additional area necessary to construct a private
sewer system meeting all current regulations and codes of the city and Winona
County, as determined by the County Planning Director. If a municipal sanitary
sewer system is used then the additional land requirement shall not apply. No
non-farm dwelling lot may have a frontage of less than 100 feet.
   (E)   Maximum, height restriction. No building or structure may be erected
in an agricultural district which exceeds a height of 75 feet or exceeds any
height restriction contained in the regulations of the airport zoning ordinance
of the City of Winona.
(Ord. 8.35, passed 4-3-2000)
§ 154.057 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS OR STRUCTURES.
   In all zoning districts, except an agricultural district, all accessory
buildings, structures or enclosures, incidental to the use of the principal
structure or use upon a property shall conform to all regulations and
restrictions as set forth in this section and shall also be a permitted or an
approved conditional use.
   (A)   Side and rear yards. Unattached accessory buildings may be located not
less than two feet, plus one foot for every four feet or portion thereof above
16 feet in height from the side and rear lot lines.
   (B)   Driveways, sidewalks and patios. Constructed of concrete or bituminous
may be located not less than six inches from the front, side or rear lot lines.
   (C)   Fences.
      (1)   Fences may be constructed of vinyl, plastic, metal, composite,
chain link, wire mesh, wood, wrought iron, rock or decorative rock, immediately
within property lines subject to the restrictions contained herein.
      (2)   Shrubbery may also be used, but must be kept so that no part
thereof grows outside of the owner’s property including all vertical planes
extending up from the property lines. A building permit is required for all
fence construction, reconstruction or replacement. Property owners are
responsible for determining the location of all affected property lines. All
support posts and bracing shall be located on the interior of the property upon
which the fence is being constructed.
      (3)   Double faced fences are permitted. Barbed wire may be used only in
agricultural districts or at the top of chain link fencing not less than six
feet high in commercial, commercial restricted, light manufacturing or heavy
manufacturing zoning districts. No fence may be constructed upon public right-
of-ways.
      (4)   Also, no fence shall be constructed at a height greater than three
feet within 30 feet of an intersection, measured from the intersection of
property line corner. No fence, or portion thereof, may be constructed to a
height greater than three feet within 25 feet of the back of the curb or edge
of blacktop where curbing is not present. No fence may be constructed to height
of greater than eight feet and shall not be constructed to a width greater than
three feet. No fence or portion thereof may be constructed upon any street
right-of-way, except those installed by the city for its purposes.
   (D)   Attached patio decks. Attached patio decks constructed of lumber,
without solid flooring and without a roof may be allowed not less than two feet
from a side on the next property line.
   (E)   Decking. Attached decking may be constructed not nearer than two feet
from a side or rear property line if the floor or roof material if any, are
constructed with not less than three-eighths of an inch open space between the
floor and overhead materials allowing rain water to pass between the materials
and not be carried off of the floor or roof.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979; Ord. 8.35, passed 4-3-2000; Ord. 8.42,
passed 6-16-2008)
§ 154.058 SIDE, REAR YARD AND LOT WIDTH MEASUREMENTS.
   All measurements specified previously herein and all subsequent restrictions
shall be made from the side lot line or rear lot line to the structures
overhang. All lot widths shall be measured at the set back line.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.059 REDUCTION OF YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   No building shall be erected, nor shall any existing building be altered,
enlarged or rebuilt, nor shall any open space surrounding a building be
encroached upon or reduced in any manner, except in conformity to the yard,
lot, area and building location regulations herein designated for the district
in which the buildings or open space is located; and no yard or other open
space provided about any building for the purpose of complying with the
provisions of this chapter shall be considered as providing a yard or open
space for a structure on any other lot.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.060 MINIMUM CONSTRUCTION FOR DWELLINGS.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall be erected, altered or moved upon
any lot within the city, which building or other structure is designed or used
as sleeping quarters or a dwelling for one or more persons, the width of which
building or structure is 20 feet or less and which occupies or covers an area
of 600 square feet or less as measured on the ground floor, except that mobile
homes may be moved upon any land designated by the City Council as a mobile
home district.
   (B)   No building or other structure shall be erected, altered or moved upon
any lot within a D-1, D-2 or D-3 Dwelling District in the city which building
or other structure is designed or used as sleeping quarters or a dwelling for
one or more persons unless the building or other structure meets the following
criteria:
      (1)   Construction of a permanent block or cement foundation forming a
complete enclosure under all exterior walls of the building or other structure;
      (2)   All exterior walls shall consist or appear to consist of wood or
masonry materials;
      (3)   All exterior roof finishes shall be felt, wood or clay shingles;
      (4)   All roofs must have not less than a 3-1/2:12 pitch; and
      (5)   Must be constructed with floor joists capable of spanning one half
of its entire width without any additional wood or metal support excluding
interior joist to joist cross bracing (bridging).
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979; Ord. 8.33, passed 5-2-1994)  Penalty, see
§
154.999
§ 154.061 HEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   No use may be constructed to exceed a height of 50 feet in a D-3 Dwelling
District or a height of 30 feet in a D-1 or D-2 Dwelling District. No structure
within a C-1 Commercial District and a C-1R Commercial Restricted District
shall be erected to exceed a height of 50 feet and no structure within an M-
1 Light Manufacturing, M-2 Heavy Manufacturing, or M-5 Light Manufacturing
District may be constructed to exceed a height of 75 feet.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979; Ord. 8.46, passed 1-25-2010)  Penalty,
see §
154.999
§ 154.062 LOADING DOCKS.
   No loading or unloading dock shall be erected or altered such that the
longest delivery or receiving vehicle shall occupy any portion of a street
right-of-way while delivering or receiving.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.063 VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTIONS.
   For the purpose of ensuring reasonable visibility at intersections in all
zoning districts, it is hereby provided that trees shall be trimmed up to a
height of eight feet above the street level and that shrubs and hedges shall be
trimmed down to a height of three feet above the street level for a distance of
30 feet from the intersection of the street lines. However, certain
identification signs may be placed within 30 feet upon approval of the City
Council.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979; Ord. 8.35, passed 4-3-2000) Penalty, see
§
154.999
§ 154.064 GRADE REQUIRED.
   Owners of any lot upon which any use is to be made involving the
construction of a structure may be required to construct the structure at a
grade specified by the Supervisor of Zoning. Any or all costs of establishing
the grade shall be the responsibility of the lot owner. In all zoning
districts, no structure may be constructed at an elevation greater than 86 feet
or upon any slope greater than 20%.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979; Ord. 8.35, passed 4-3-2000) Penalty, see
§
154.999
§ 154.065 BUFFER ZONING.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever a change in a zoning district or establishment of a
zoning district shall be considered, the City Council may require the
establishment of a buffering strip consisting of such green items or fencing
and located as the Council shall specify.
      (2)   Construction of buildings and improvements shall be prohibited on
the buffering strips, except for shrubbery, fencing or other buffering items.
      (3)   Whenever a buffering strip has been established, the Council may
when issuing a building permit for any construction upon property adjacent to a
buffering strip, require the owner to construct plantings, fences or other
screening materials.
      (4)   The restrictions of buffer zones may be altered or reduced by
variance with respect to specific construction if the Council determines that
the construction will not be injurious to adjacent property.
   (B)   The ordinance codified herein was published on 6-19-1981.
(Ord. 8.25, passed 6-15-1981) Penalty, see §
154.999
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.080 SUPERVISOR OF ZONING.
   (A)   Generally. A Supervisor of Zoning designated by the City Council shall
administer and enforce this chapter. If he or she finds a violation of the
provisions of this chapter, he or she shall notify the person responsible for
the violation, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary to correct it.
   (B)   Supervisor’s regulations. The Supervisor of Zoning is hereby directed
and authorized to establish the procedures and regulation as he or she may
require to ensure compliance in accordance with the approved use permit and
conditional use permit.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.081 USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, partnership, corporation or other
organization to construct, alter, demolish, add to, enlarge, move or remodel,
within the city without first obtaining a use permit for each building,
structure or parcel of land from the Supervisor of Zoning of the city.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.082 APPLICATION FOR USE PERMIT.
   Application for a use permit shall be made to the Supervisor of Zoning on
forms furnished by him or her and shall include the following as requested by
him or her: building plans drawn to scale, site plans, elevations and any other
information as may be requested, and a fee in accordance with the following:
each $160.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.083 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, REINSTATEMENT OF USE PERMIT.
   (A)   After approval and issuance of a use permit by the Supervisor of
Zoning, the Supervisor or the City Council may suspend or revoke any
construction, alteration, demolition, addition, enlarging, moving, remodeling
or change of use of any building, structure or land on the basis of failure to
comply with the approved plans, arrangements, construction or use, or may
suspend or revoke the same for violation of any provision of this chapter or
any other ordinance of the city.
   (B)   No person shall continue the use as permitted after revocation or
suspension until a three-fifths majority vote of the City Council in favor
thereof has been passed upon.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.084 BOARD OF APPEAL.
   (A)   A Board of Appeal is hereby established and shall consist of the
members of the Citizens Advisory Zoning Board. The Board shall function in an
advisory capacity to the City Council. The Board shall hear appeals from
decisions of the Supervisor of Zoning, from applications for conditional use
permits and from application for variances.
   (B)   (1)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Board of Appeal an appeal in
writing, the Board shall fix a time for a hearing and give due notice to the
parties of interest all not more than 30 days from the date of filing of the
application.
      (2)   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on the appeal not
more than 30 days from the date the hearing is conducted. In passing upon an
appeal the Board may, so long as the action is in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and it shall make
its recommendation to the City Council in writing setting forth the findings of
fact and the reasons for its recommendations.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.085 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Any use listed in this chapter as requiring a special permit or any
use not listed may be allowed only upon application to the Supervisor of Zoning
on forms furnished by him or her and issuance of a conditional use permit by
the City Council.
   (B)   The Council may require the applicant to furnish building plans drawn
to scale, site plan, elevations of the proposed and existing structures and
land and any other information as may be requested to assist the Council in
making a decision.
   (C)   The Council shall act on an application at a regular or special
meeting within 30 days from receiving the application, except where additional
information is required pursuant to this section and has not been presented,
the Council shall render a written decision within 30 days from the receipt of
the additional information.
   (D)   The Council will use the following criteria in reviewing each
conditional use application.
      (1)   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already permitted,
nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the immediate
vicinity.
      (2)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of surrounding vacant property for uses
predominant in that area.
      (3)   Adequate utilities, access, drainage and other necessary facilities
have been or are being provided.
      (4)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide sufficient
off-street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use.
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to prevent or control
offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise and vibration such that none of these will
constitute a nuisance, and to control lighted signs and other lights in a
manner that no disturbance to neighboring properties will result.
      (6)   The use is in harmony with the general intent and purposes of this
chapter.
   (E)   No conditional use shall be granted unless the request is approved by
a three-fifths majority vote in favor thereof by the City Council.
   (F)   Upon consideration of an application for a conditional use permit, the
information presented therewith, and the purposes of this chapter, the Council
may attach such conditions to the granting of conditional use permits as it
deems necessary to further the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.086 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any restriction or provision of this chapter may be varied only upon
application to the Supervisor of Zoning on forms furnished by him or her and
issuance of a variance by the City Council.
   (B)   The Council may require the applicant to furnish building plans drawn
to scale, plot plan, elevations of the proposed and existing structures and
land and any other information as may be requested to assist the Council in
making its decision.
   (C)   The Council shall act on an application at a regular or special
meeting within 30 days from receiving the application, except where additional
information is required pursuant to division (B) above and has not been
presented, the Council shall render a written decision within 30 days from the
receipt of the additional information.
   (D)   (1)   The Council shall evaluate a request for a variance based on the
following criteria:
         (a)   The property will not yield a reasonable return if used in
compliance with this chapter;
         (b)   The conditions causing the hardship are unique and are not
shared by adjacent properties in the same zone; and places cruel and unusual
hardship upon the owner;
         (c)   The granting of the variance will not essentially alter the
character of the area or district; and
         (d)   The granting of the variance will not be in conflict with the
Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   The burden of proof of these conditions rests with the applicant.
The applicant shall address himself or herself to these criteria when
presenting his or her statement to the Council.
   (E)   No variance shall be granted unless the request is approved by a
three-fifths majority vote in favor thereof of the City Council.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.087 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   After final inspection by the Supervisor of Zoning of a project issued a use
permit pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and the determination by him
or her that the project has complied with the provisions of this chapter, the
Supervisor of Zoning shall issue a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.088 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Change of any section or boundary of a district. No change in any
section or part thereof of this chapter or in any boundary lines of any
district shall, be made except after the following procedure:
      (1)   A notice of a public hearing stating the time and place of the
hearing and the proposed change to be made is published in the official
newspaper of the city not less than ten days before the hearing is to take
place;
      (2)   If the proposed change in the boundary lines of any district or a
change in the use of land copies of the published notice of the public hearing
must be mailed to each property owner abutting the area proposed to be changed
and to property owners whose property, in whole or in part lies within 350 feet
of the outer boundary lines of the area proposed to be changed. Failure of any
property owner to receive any notice shall not be construed to affect, in any
way, the outcome of any hearing; and
      (3)   At the time and place fixed in the public notice, the City Council
shall hear all objections and recommendations thereto. A change in any section
of this chapter or part thereof or in any boundary of any district, shall be
approved only by a three-fifths majority vote of the City Council and shall
take effect and be in full force after its passage and publication in the
official newspaper of the city.
   (B)   Rezoning fee. Whenever a request for a change, which must be submitted
in writing is filed requiring a public hearing under the provisions of division
(A) above, for a change in the boundary lines or the use of land, the request
shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee of $160. The fee shall be
reimbursement to the city for costs incurred in consideration of the request,
however, where it appears that costs will be incurred exceeding $50, the City
Council may impose a fee in an amount sufficient to reimburse the city for the
additional costs incurred in consideration of the request.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
§ 154.089 OPT-OUT OF M.S. § 462.3593.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subd. 9, the city opts-out
of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and regulates temporary
family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 9-12-2016)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Supervisor of Zoning to enforce this
chapter and it is the intent to empower the Supervisor of Zoning to administer
the chapter in conjunction with the administration of his or her duties
assigned herein.
   (B)   For any and every violation of the provisions of this chapter or of
the rules and regulations adopted thereunder, the owner, general agent or
contractor of a building or premises in which part the violation has been
committed or shall exist; and the general agent, architect, builder, contractor
or any other person who commits, takes part or assists in the violations shall
exist, shall be liable to the same legal procedure and the same penalties as
are prescribed in any law, statute or ordinance for violations, and for the
violations the same legal remedies shall be had, and the violators prosecuted
in the same manner as prescribed in any law or ordinance in the city.
(Ord. passed 6-9-1947; Ord. passed 12-19-1949; Ord. passed 7-8-1955; Ord.
passed 11-16-1959; Ord. passed 3-28-1960; Ord. passed 7-8-1974; Ord. passed 4-
28-1975; Ord. 8.24, passed 9-17-1979)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
III.   STREETS
      
IV.   REZONINGS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
8.40     10-21-2002  Annexing certain unincorporated land abutting the city
                     limits; extending the corporate limits to include the land
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
28.1     - -1964     Amending Ord. 28; granting signal distribution system
                     franchise to Winona TV Signal Company
28.1     11-3-1975   Amending Ord. 28; renewal of cable franchise to American
                     Cablevision Company
28.2     2-18-1976   Amending Ord. 28; renewal of cable franchise to American
                     Cable-Television System Operation
28.3     9-20-1976   Amending Ord. 28; renewal of cable franchise to American
                     Cable Television System Operation
28.4     4-23-1979   Amending Ord. 28; renewal of cable franchise to
                     Teleprompter Corporation
28.5     11-5-1979   Amending Ord. 28; renewal of cable franchise to
                     Teleprompter Corporation
28.6     2-9-1981    Amending Ord. 28; renewal of cable franchise to American
                     Cable Television Company
23.1     7-17-1981   Granting an gas distribution franchise to Northern States
                     Power Company
28.7     8-31-1981   Amending Ord. 28; renewal of cable franchise to American
                     Cablevision Company
28.8     7-12-1982   Amending Ord. 28; renewal of cable franchise to American
                     Cablevision Company
20.1     1-26-2004   Granting an electricity distribution franchise to
                     Minnesota States Power Company, D/B/A Xcel Energy
                     Granting an electricity distribution franchise to Northern
23.2     1-26-2004   States Power Company D/B/A Excel Energy (repealed by Ord.
                     23.3)
20.3     - -2006     Implementing an electric franchise fee on Northern States
                     Power D/B/A Excel Energy
23.4     - -2006     Implementing a gas franchise fee on Northern States Power
                     D/B/A Excel Energy
20.2     5-1-2006    Granting an electricity distribution franchise to
                     Minnesota States Power Company, D/B/A Xcel Energy
23.3     5-1-2006    Granting an electricity distribution franchise to Northern
                     States Power Company D/B/A Excel Energy
 
TABLE III: STREETS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
7        1-20-1947   Designating, as permanent streets, Locust Street and an
                     unnamed intersecting street
11       5-17-1948   Renaming certain streets
 
TABLE IV: REZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
8.1      2-17-1958   Rezoning certain land to Commercial (C-1)
8.2      3-25-1958   Rezoning certain land to Commercial (C-1)
8.4      4-18-1960   Rezoning certain land to Commercial Restricted (C-1R)
8.5      4-18-1966   Rezoning certain land to Light Manufacturing (M-1)
8.6      7-18-1966   Rezoning certain land to Light Manufacturing (M-1)
8.7      10-17-1966  Rezoning certain land to Dwelling (D-1)
8.8      12-9-1970   Rezoning certain land to Light Manufacturing (M-1)
8.9      4-19-1971   Rezoning certain land to Dwelling (D-1)
8.21     5-12-1971   Rezoning certain land to Dwelling (D-1) and other land to
                     Light Manufacturing (M-1)
8.01     12-6-1971   Rezoning certain land to Commercial (C-1)
                     Rezoning certain land to Heavy Manufacturing (M-2), other
8.02     4-17-1973   land to Commercial Restricted (C-1R) and other land to
                     Dwelling (D-3)
8.03     12-17-1973  Rezoning certain land to Commercial Restricted (C-1R)
8.04     5-13-1974   Rezoning certain land from Dwelling (D-2) to Dwelling (D-
                     3)
8.06     7-22-1974   Rezoning certain land from Dwelling (D-3) to Commercial
                     (C-1)
8.07     11-13-1974  Rezoning certain land from Dwelling (D-1) to Dwelling (D-
                     3)
8.08     12-16-1974  Rezoning certain land from Dwelling (D-1) to Dwelling (D-
                     3)
8.09     8-8-1975    Rezoning certain land from Dwelling (D-1) to Dwelling (D-
                     3)
8.22     4-19-1976   Rezoning certain land from Dwelling (D-3) to Commercial
                     (C-1)
8.23     4-25-1977   Rezoning certain land from Manufacturing (M-2) to Dwelling
                     (D-1 and D-3)
8.26     6-16-1981   Rezoning certain land to Light Manufacturing (M-1)
8.27     4-5-1982    Rezoning certain land to Commercial (C-1)
                     Rezoning certain land to Light Manufacturing (M-1),
8.28     8-30-1982   Commercial (C-1), Single-Family Dwelling (D-1) and
                     Multiple-Family Dwelling (D-2)
8.29     9-20-1982   Rezoning certain land to Single-Family Dwelling (D-1) and
                     Multiple-Family Dwelling (D-2)
8.30     7-9-1984    Rezoning certain land to Commercial (C-1)
8.31     11-6-1989   Rezoning certain land to Single-Family Dwelling (D-1)
8.32     6-22-1992   Rezoning certain land to Multiple Family Dwelling (D-1)
8.35     4-3-2000    Inclusion of certain land in zoning map
8.36     10-15-2001  Rezoning certain lands
8.37     12-17-2001  Rezoning certain land from Commercial (C-1) to Single-
                     Family Dwelling (D-1)
8.38     7-1-2002    Rezoning certain land to Two-Family Dwelling (D-2) and
                     Multiple-Family Dwelling (D-3)
8.39     7-15-2002   Rezoning certain land to Single-Family Dwelling (D-1) and
                     Commercial (C-1)
8.41     6-7-2004    Rezoning certain land to Single-Family Dwelling (D-1)
8.43     8-3-2009    Rezoning certain land from M-2 Heavy Manufacturing
                     District to D-1 Single-Family Dwelling District;
                     Rezoning certain land from M-2 Heavy Manufacturing
                     District to D-1 Single-Family Dwelling District;
                     Rezoning certain land from M-2 Heavy Manufacturing
                     District to D-2 Two-Family Dwelling District
8.44     8-3-2009    Rezoning certain land from M-2 Heavy Manufacturing
                     District to D-3 Multiple Family Dwelling District
                     Rezoning all of Cedar Bay Townhomes subdivision from M-
8.45     8-17-2009   1 Heavy Manufacturing District to D-2 Two-Family Dwelling
                     District
8.47     2-8-2010    Rezoning certain land from M-1 Light Manufacturing to M-
                     5 Light Manufacturing
8.48     9-20-2010   Rezoning certain lands from M-1 Light Manufacturing to D-
                     3 Multiple Family Dwelling
8.49     10-18-2010  Rezoning certain lands from M-1 Light Manufacturing to D-
                     1 Single Family Dwelling
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites              Code Section
12.25                   31.01;
                        31.04
12.31                   31.06
13                      30.01
14.57—14.69           114.10
18G.13                  92.02
35.71                   90.11
65B.48, Subd. 5         71.02;
                        71.03
84.81                   71.01
84.81—84.915          71.01
84.862, Subd. 1         71.01
84.871                  71.01
84.92                   71.02
84.92, Subd. 8          71.02
84.92, Subd. 9          71.02
84.92, Subd. 10         71.02
84.922, Subd. 1a        71.02
84.925, Subd. 5         71.02
84.928                  71.02
84D.10                  95.03
86B                     95.03
88.16—88.195          93.02
97C.355                 95.03
103F                    152.01
110.02                  95.01
144.391                 110.01
169                     70.01;
                        71.99
169.01, Subd. 2         95.01
169.011                 70.02
169.045                 71.02;
                        71.03
169.045, Subd 1(3)      71.02
169.045, Subd 4         71.03
169.70                  71.02;
                        71.03
169.999                 10.99
169.999, Subd. 1(b)(1)  10.99
169.999, Subd. 1(b)(2)  10.99
169.999, Subd. 1(b)(3)  10.99
169.999, Subd. 5        10.99
205.13, Subd. 3(b)(3)   30.05
238.083                 111.20
238.084                 111.19
238.084(a)              111.21
273                     150.02
309.53                  115.01
309.53, Subd. 1a        115.01
326B                    150.01
326B.082, Subd. 16      150.99
326B.133, Subd. 1       150.01
326B.148                150.01
329                     113.03
                        114.01;
                        114.04—
340A                    114.06;
                        114.09;
                        114.11
340A.414                132.18
340A.503, Subd. 1(a)(1) 132.18
349                     115.01
364.06                  30.01
364.09                  30.01
412                     30.15
412.221                 30.15
                        30.02;
429                     92.01;
                        92.02
429.061                 91.02;
                        92.24
429.071                 91.02
                        91.02;
429.101                 92.02;
                        92.24
435.193— 435.195      30.02
444.075                 53.05
461                     110.12
461.12, Subd. 7         110.10
461.18, Subd. 1(g)      110.06
461.18, Subd. 2         110.06
                        152.01;
462                     154.001;
                        154.004
462.357                 154.001;
                        154.004
462.358                 153.01
462.3593                154.089
462.3593, Subd. 9       154.089
462.361                 110.10
471.62                  93.02
507                     115.01
609                     130.01
609.685                 95.01
626.862                 10.20 
                        
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Cites Code Section
Minn. Rules Cites   Code Section
1300                150.01
1505.0730           92.01
6100.5000           71.01
6120.5000—6120.620152.27
6120.5600           152.26
6120.5700           152.26
6216.0500           95.03
Ch. 7030            92.19
7460.5200           71.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
0829     7-20-2009   10.99
0902     1-28-2013   32.01
0929     1-27-2014   32.01
0963     1-26-2015   32.01
0970     5-18-2015   32.01
0992     1-25-2016   32.01
1012     9-12-2016   32.01
1019     1-23-2017   32.01
1047     1-29-2018   32.01
1075     1-28-2019   32.01
1117     1-27-2020   32.01
1178     1-24-2022   32.01
1212     1-12-2023   32.01,
                     114.04
1215     4-3-2023    32.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.          Date Passed Code Section
53.01             - -         93.99
86.3              - -         150.01
                              114.25—
2                 11-4-1946   114.35;
                              114.99
7                 1-20-1947   TSO Table III
                              154.001—
                              154.010;
                              154.025—
                              154.032;
                              154.035—
                              154.038;
–               6-9-1947    154.050—
                              154.055;
                              154.057—
                              154.064;
                              154.080—
                              154.088;
                              154.999
10                2-23-1948   TSO Table I
11                5-17-1948   TSO Table III
12                5-17-1948   150.03;
                              150.99
13                11-15-1948  131.01;
                              131.99
                              154.001—
                              154.010;
                              154.025—
                              154.032;
                              154.035—
                              154.038;
–               12-19-1949  154.050—
                              154.055;
                              154.057—
                              154.064;
                              154.080—
                              154.088;
                              154.999
17                12-19-1949  TSO Table I
18                9-18-1950   30.16;
                              30.99
19                9-18-1950   53.25—
                              53.30
20                5-12-1952   TSO Table II
23                5-18-1955   TSO Table II
                              154.001—
                              154.010;
                              154.025—
                              154.032;
                              154.035—
                              154.038;
–               7-8-1955    154.050—
                              154.055;
                              154.057—
                              154.064;
                              154.080—
                              154.088;
                              154.999
24                10-17-1955  114.31;
                              114.99
28                - -1958     TSO Table II
                              90.01—
–               1-28-1958   90.18;
                              90.99
8.1               2-17-1958   TSO Table IV
8.2               3-25-1958   TSO Table IV
                              154.001—
                              154.010;
                              154.025—
                              154.032;
                              154.035—
                              154.038;
–               11-16-1959  154.050—
                              154.055;
                              154.057—
                              154.064;
                              154.080—
                              154.088;
                              154.999
                              154.001—
                              154.010;
                              154.025—
                              154.032;
                              154.035—
                              154.038;
–               3-28-1960   154.050—
                              154.055;
                              154.057—
                              154.064;
                              154.080—
                              154.088;
                              154.999
8.4               4-18-1960   TSO Table IV
                              90.01—
–               5-16-1960   90.18;
                              90.99
–               6-19-1961   30.16;
                              30.99
35                6-4-1962    50.02
28.1              - -1964     TSO Table II
                              90.01—
–               2-17-1964   90.18;
                              90.99
8.5               4-18-1966   TSO Table IV
8.6               7-18-1966   TSO Table IV
8.7               10-17-1966  TSO Table IV
42                7-17-1967   91.01;
                              91.99
                              112.01—
43                7-17-1967   112.10;
                              112.99
                              90.30—
45                4-1-1968    90.34;
                              90.99
47                7-21-1969   92.02;
                              92.99
                              132.01—
48                9-2-1969    132.03;
                              132.99
49                9-2-1969    133.01;
                              133.99
50                6-30-1970   TSO Table I
8.8               12-9-1970   TSO Table IV
51                12-21-1970  71.01;
                              71.99
8.9               4-19-1971   TSO Table IV
8.21              5-12-1971   TSO Table IV
8.01              12-6-1971   TSO Table IV
                              90.01—
26                5-15-1972   90.18;
                              90.99;
                              95.01
33.1              10-2-1972   70.01;
                              70.99
54                10-2-1972   130.01;
                              130.99
8.02              4-17-1973   TSO Table IV
                              90.01—
–               8-6-1973    90.18;
                              90.99
26.2              8-6-1973    90.10
35.1              8-6-1973    50.02
8.03              12-17-1973  TSO Table IV
28                4-15-1974   TSO Table II
8.04              5-13-1974   TSO Table IV
                              154.001—
                              154.010;
                              154.025—
                              154.032;
                              154.035—
                              154.038;
–               7-8-1974    154.050—
                              154.055;
                              154.057—
                              154.064;
                              154.080—
                              154.088;
                              154.999
8.06              7-22-1974   TSO Table IV
39.01             8-19-1974   30.04
8.07              11-13-1974  TSO Table IV
8.08              12-16-1974  TSO Table IV
                              154.001—
                              154.010;
                              154.025—
                              154.032;
                              154.035—
                              154.038;
–               4-28-1975   154.050—
                              154.055;
                              154.057—
                              154.064;
                              154.080—
                              154.088;
                              154.999
8.09              8-8-1975    TSO Table IV
28.1              11-3-1975   TSO Table II
28.2              2-18-1976   TSO Table II
                              90.01—
26                2-23-1976   90.18;
                              90.99
26.1              4-12-1976   90.03
8.22              4-19-1976   TSO Table IV
55                5-10-1976   50.01
28.3              9-20-1976   TSO Table II
5                 4-18-1977   30.02
8.23              4-25-1977   TSO Table IV
                              114.25—
2.1               7-25-1977   114.28;
                              114.30—
                              114.32
59                5-15-1978   93.01;
                              93.99
42.01             8-7-1978    91.01
26.11             10-30-1978  90.03;
                              90.04
28.4              4-23-1979   TSO Table II
62                6-11-1979   115.01
                              154.001—
                              154.010;
                              154.025—
                              154.032;
                              154.035—
                              154.038;
8.24              9-17-1979   154.050—
                              154.055;
                              154.057—
                              154.064;
                              154.080—
                              154.088;
                              154.999
63                10-1-1979   114.01—
                              114.11
28.5              11-5-1979   TSO Table II
64                11-5-1979   94.01—
                              94.10
66                2-4-1980    91.02;
                              91.99
28.6              2-9-1981    TSO Table II
15.1              5-18-1981   113.01—
                              113.05
8.25              6-15-1981   154.065
8.26              6-16-1981   TSO Table IV
23.1              7-17-1981   TSO Table II
28.7              8-31-1981   TSO Table II
8.27              4-5-1982    TSO Table IV
20                6-21-1982   TSO Table II
28.8              7-12-1982   TSO Table II
8.28              8-30-1982   TSO Table IV
8.29              9-20-1982   TSO Table IV
67                1-17-1983   TSO Table I
34.3              4-23-1984   Ch. 73, Sch. I
34.4              6-11-1984   Ch. 73, Sch. I
8.30              7-9-1984    TSO Table IV
62.10             7-9-1984    115.01
2.1               12-10-1984  114.32
33.2              2-11-1985   70.02;
                              70.99
68                2-11-1985   51.01;
                              51.99
69                5-6-1985    TSO Table I
21.3              12-1-1986   30.15;
                              30.99
61.12             6-8-1987    153.01—
                              153.13
70                4-25-1988   51.02;
                              51.99
                              53.01—
31.5              5-2-1988    53.13;
                              53.99
26.3              2-13-1989   90.13
8.31              11-6-1989   TSO Table IV
72                7-22-1991   72.01—
                              72.03
73                7-22-1991   95.02;
                              95.99
74                9-9-1991    TSO Table I
                              152.01—
                              152.10;
58.2              11-18-1991  152.25—
                              152.30;
                              152.99
                              114.02—
63.02             3-2-1992    114.05;
                              114.08
63.01             6-1-1992    114.08
8.32              6-22-1992   TSO Table IV
58.3              10-19-1992  152.04
63.03             10-4-1993   114.09
8.33              5-2-1994    154.060
31.7              12-19-1994  53.02
8.34              6-19-1995   154.050
                              52.01—
30.4              9-22-1997   52.10;
                              52.99
                              111.01;
78                10-13-1997  111.02;
                              111.15—
                              111.47
                              110.01—
79                2-2-1998    110.13;
                              110.99
80                6-1-1998    30.04
81                8-3-1998    71.02;
                              71.99
63.04             3-1-1999    114.03;
                              114.08
                              154.029—
                              154.031;
                              154.034;
8.35              4-3-2000    154.056;
                              154.057;
                              154.063;
                              154.064;
                              TSO Table IV
77                6-19-2000   95.03
8.36              10-15-2001  TSO Table IV
8.37              12-17-2001  TSO Table IV
8.38              7-1-2002    TSO Table IV
8.39              7-15-2002   TSO Table IV
8.40              10-21-2002  TSO Table I
82                11-4-2002   150.02
83                - -2004     151.01—
                              151.10
84                - -2004     153.25—
                              153.31
20.1              1-26-2004   TSO Table II
23.2              1-26-2004   TSO Table II
8.41              6-7-2004    TSO Table IV
20.3              - -2006     TSO Table II
23.4              - -2006     TSO Table II
85                2-6-2006    91.02
87                3-20-2006   92.01;
                              92.99
20.2              5-1-2006    TSO Table II
23.3              5-1-2006    TSO Table II
75.1              - -2007     30.02
40.4              1-22-2007   30.03
43.1              1-22-2007   112.03
53.01             6-4-2007    10.99
89                - -2008     150.01;
                              150.99
8.42              6-16-2008   154.057
52.05             7-7-2008    93.02;
                              93.99
90                3-16-2009   30.01
91                3-16-2009   10.99
8.43              8-3-2009    TSO Table IV
8.44              8-3-2009    TSO Table IV
8.45              8-3-2009    TSO Table IV
92                12-7-2009   130.15
                              90.03;
26.6              1-4-2010    90.10;
                              90.99
                              154.010;
8.46              1-25-2010   154.033;
                              154.054;
                              154.061
8.47              2-8-2010    TSO Table IV
38.8              5-17-2010   Ch. 74, Sch. I
93                6-7-2010    93.03;
                              93.99
                              132.15—
94                6-7-2010    132.20;
                              132.99
88.1              7-12-2010   95.01;
                              95.99
8.48              9-20-2010   TSO Table IV
8.49              10-18-2010  TSO Table IV
95                10-18-2010  Adopting Ordinance
                              92.01;
                              92.02;
2011-01 (87.1)    1-24-2011   92.15—
                              92.23;
                              92.99
2011-03 (26.7)    1-24-2011   90.04
2011-04 (83.1)  11-21-2011  151.07
2012-01 (86.7)  1-9-2012    32.01
2013-01 (86.8)    7-22-2013   32.01;
                              114.04
2016-01           5-2-2016    30.05
                              116.01—
2016-01B          9-12-2016   116.07;
                              116.99
2016-02           9-12-2016   154.089
2017-01           5-1-2017    91.03,
                              91.99
2017-02           8-28-2017   90.03
                              Ch. 73, Schs.
-                 10-23-2017  I,
                              II
90                1-7-2019    90.04
2023-03           --          95.01,
                              95.99
                              71.01—
2022-07(71)       6-20-2022   71.03,
                              71.99
                              90.50—
-                 6-17-2024   90.55,
                              90.99
-                 6-17-2024   32.01
                             
 
