GOOD THUNDER, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-4 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties; hearings
 
   
10.99   General penalty and enforcement
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Good Thunder City Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “traffic code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Good Thunder, Minnesota. The term CITY, when used in
this code, may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
      CLERK-TREASURER. The person duly appointed by the City Council and acting
in such capacity.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Blue Earth, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MISDEMEANOR. The violation imposed by M.S. § 609.02, subd. 3, as it may
be amended from time to time.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      ORDINANCE. An ordinance duly adopted by the City Council.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver.
         (b)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall
mean the partners or members thereof and, as applied to corporations, the
officers or agents thereof.
      PETTY MISDEMEANOR. The violation imposed by M.S. § 609.02, subd. 4a, as
it may be amended from time to time.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      VIOLATE. Failure to comply with.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(2001 Code, § 1.02)
   (C)   State law.
      (1)   The definitions and rules of construction, presumptions and
miscellaneous provisions pertaining to construction contained in M.S. Ch. 645,
as it may be amended from time to time, are adopted by reference and made a
part of this code.
      (2)   As so adopted, references in that chapter to laws and statutes mean
provisions of this code and references to the legislature mean the Council.
(2001 Code, § 1.03)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within the city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway and the election of corporate officers
shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the city’s
Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection. The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide a copy
for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that all future amendments to
any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by reference in this code or
referenced in this code are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if
they had been in existence at the time this code was adopted, unless there is
clear intention expressed in the code to the contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that all future supplements
are hereby adopted as if they had been in existence at the time this code was
enacted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, the County
Sheriff or any Deputy Sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any provision
of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall have the authority to administer and
enforce this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain
individuals designated within the code or by the Clerk-Treasurer or City
Council shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions
specified. All and any person or persons designated may issue a citation in
lieu of arrest or continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The city’s Clerk-Treasurer and any city official or employee
designated by this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this
code may with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any
property or resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises,
inspect or otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the city’s
Clerk-Treasurer, peace officer or any employee or official charged with the
duty of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit, at reasonable times, inspections of or entrance
to the property by the city’s Clerk-Treasurer or any other authorized city
officer or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code
enacted to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being
complied with and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit
the inspection of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination
of any and all permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice
shall be given to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
the property stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner,
resident or other person in control of the property shall be given an
opportunity to appear before the city’s Clerk-Treasurer to object to the
termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the Clerk-Treasurer’s
decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES; HEARINGS.
   (A)   General. Unless otherwise provided in this code, or by law, every
public hearing required by law, ordinance or resolution to be held on any
legislative or administrative matter shall be conducted in accordance with this
section.
   (B)   Notice. Every hearing shall be preceded by ten days’ mailed notice to
all persons entitled to it by law, ordinance or regulation unless only
published notice is required. The notice shall state the time, place and
purpose of hearing. Failure to give the notice or defects in it shall not
invalidate the proceedings if a good faith effort has been made to comply with
this section.
   (C)   Conduct of hearing. At the hearing, each party in interest shall have
an opportunity to be heard and to present evidence as is relevant to the
proceeding. The Council may adopt rules governing the conduct of hearings,
records to be made and such other matters, as it deems necessary.
   (D)   Record. Upon the disposition of any matter after hearing, the Council
shall have prepared a written summary of its findings and decisions and enter
the summary in the official Council minutes.
(2001 Code, § 1.05)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever an act or omission is declared by the city code to be a
violation, the violator shall, upon conviction, be subject to those penalties
provided for under this code. If no penalty is specified in a chapter (for
example, but not limited to, Ch. 30, 31, 32, 110, 111, 112, 113 and 115 of this
code of ordinances), then the penalty shall be a misdemeanor. The penalty which
may be imposed for any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including
state statutes specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not
more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided, each act of violation and every day on
which a violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense.
      (3)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for violation unless a penalty is specifically provided for
the failure.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including state statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time, in
either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98 of this chapter, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with
any provision of this code, the Council, or any city official designated by it,
may institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct
or abate the violation.
(2001 Code, § 1.06) (Res. 2003-12, passed 11-3-2003)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL AND MAYOR
      
31.   OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   PUBLIC SAFETY
      
33.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
      
34.   FEE SCHEDULE
      
35.   ENFORCING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL AND MAYOR
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Regular meetings
   
30.02   Special meetings
   
30.03   Organization
   
30.04   Public meetings
   
30.05   Presiding Officer
   
30.06   Order of business
   
30.07   Quorum and voting
   
30.08   Suspension or amendment of rules
   
30.09   Minutes
   
30.10   Salaries of Mayor and Council members
Ordinances, Resolutions and Other Legislation
   
30.25   Readings
   
30.26   Signing and publication proof
   
30.27   Repeals and amendments
   
30.28   Motions, petitions and communications
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the second Monday of each
calendar month at 7:00 p.m. Any regular meeting falling upon a holiday shall be
held on the next following business day at the time and place unless the
Council decides otherwise at a prior meeting. All meetings, including special
and adjourned meetings, shall be held in the City Hall unless the Council
decides otherwise at a prior meeting or meeting in the City Hall is impossible.
(2001 Code, § 2.01) (Ord. 2017-01, passed 7-10-2017)
§ 30.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The Mayor or any two members of the Council may call a special meeting of
the Council upon at least 24 hours’ written notice to each member of the
Council. This notice shall be delivered personally to each member or shall be
left at the member’s usual place of residence with some responsible person.
Notice to the public shall be given in accordance with the state law by posting
at City Hall, at the bank and at the post office.
(2001 Code, § 2.01)
§ 30.03 ORGANIZATION.
   At the first regular meeting in January of each year, the Council shall:
   (A)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
   (B)   Designate the official newspaper;
   (C)   Choose one of the Council members as Acting Mayor, who shall perform
the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor from the
city or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a successor has
been appointed and qualifies;
   (D)   Appoint officers and employees and members of boards, commissions and
committees as may be necessary;
   (E)   Establish and appoint Council members to Council committees as are
deemed appropriate for the efficient and orderly management of the city;
   (F)   Establish and appoint members to the following standing committees in
order to advise the City Council:
      (1)   Water, Sewer and Garbage Committee;
      (2)   Streets, Sidewalks and Alleys Committee;
      (3)   Recreation and Parks Committee;
      (4)   Personnel Committee;
      (5)   Police Committee; and
      (6)   Administration Committee.
   (G)   Set salaries for elected and appointed city officials, Police and Fire
Chiefs and Planning Commission members and attach the salaries to §
34.01(A) of this code of ordinances;
   (H)   Set rates and charges for city services such as, but not limited to,
municipal utilities, and attach the rates and charges to §
34.01(B) of this code of ordinances;
   (I)   Review the assessment standards and policies;
   (J)   Set fees for licenses permitted under Ch.
92,
110,
111,
112 and
113 of this code of ordinances and attach fees to §
34.01(C) of this code of ordinances;
   (K)   Set fees for licenses permitted under
Ch. 114 of this code of ordinances and attach such fees to §
34.01(D) of this code of ordinances;
   (L)   Set fees to permit excavating under
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances and attach the fees to §
34.01(E) of this code of ordinances;
   (M)   Set fees to process applications under
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances and attach the fees to §
34.01(F) of this code of ordinances; and
   (N)   Set fees to process plat applications under
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances and attach the fees to §
34.01(F) of this code of ordinances.
(2001 Code, § 2.01)
§ 30.04 PUBLIC MEETINGS.
   All Council meetings, including special and adjourned meetings and meetings
of Council committees, shall be conducted in accordance with the state’s Open
Meeting Law, being M.S. §§ 13D.01 et seq.
(2001 Code, § 2.01)
§ 30.05 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council. In the absence
of the Mayor, the Acting Mayor shall preside. In the absence of both, the
Clerk-Treasurer shall call the meeting to order and shall preside until the
Council members present at the meeting choose one of their number to act
temporarily as Presiding Officer.
   (B)   The Presiding Officer shall preserve order, enforce the rules of
procedure prescribed and determine without debate, subject to the final
decision of the Council on the appeal, all questions of procedure and order.
Except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the proceedings of
the Council shall be conducted in accordance with Robert’s Rules of Order.
   (C)   Any member may appeal to the Council a ruling of the Presiding
Officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once solely on the
question involved and the Presiding Officer may explain the ruling, but no
other Council member shall participate in the discussion. The appeal shall be
sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members present including the
Presiding Officer.
   (D)   The Presiding Officer may make motions, second motions or speak on any
question; except that, on demand of a majority of Council members, the
Presiding Officer may vacate the chair and designate a Council member to
preside temporarily.
(2001 Code, § 2.02)
§ 30.06 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the Council shall convene at the
time and place appointed. Council business shall be conducted in the following
order unless varied by the Presiding Officer:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Approval of minutes;
      (3)   Public hearings;
      (4)   Presentation of petitions and complaints by Council members and
citizens;
      (5)   Reports of officers, board and committees;
      (6)   Unfinished business;
      (7)   Notices and communication;
      (8)   Presentation of claims;
      (9)   New business (including introduction of ordinances and
resolutions);
      (10)   Miscellaneous; and
      (11)   Announcements.
   (B)   Petitions and agenda. Petitions and other papers addressed to the
Council shall be read by the Clerk-Treasurer upon presentation of the same to
the Council. All persons desiring to present new business before the Council
shall inform the Clerk-Treasurer at least 72 hours before the new business is
to be heard. The Clerk-Treasurer may prepare an agenda of the new business for
submission to the Council on or before the time of the next regular meeting.
(2001 Code, § 2.03)
§ 30.07 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum. At all Council meetings, a majority of all Council members
elected shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
   (B)   Voting. The votes of the members on any questions may be taken in any
manner that signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes of
the members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes.
(2001 Code, § 2.04)
§ 30.08 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended only by a two-thirds vote of the members
present and voting.
(2001 Code, § 2.06)
§ 30.09 MINUTES.
   (A)   Who keeps. The Clerk-Treasurer shall keep minutes of each Council
meeting. In the absence of the Clerk-Treasurer, the Presiding Officer shall
appoint a Secretary Pro Tem. Ordinances, resolutions and claims need not be
recorded in full in the minutes if they appear in other permanent records of
the Clerk-Treasurer and can be accurately identified from the description given
in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten
form, shall be signed by the Clerk-Treasurer and copies shall be delivered to
each Council member as soon as practical after the meeting. At the next regular
Council meeting following the delivery, approval of the minutes shall be
considered by the Council. The minutes need not be read aloud, but the
Presiding Officer shall call for any additions or corrections. If there is no
objection to a proposed addition or correction, it may be made without a vote
of the Council. If there is an objection, the Council shall vote upon the
addition or correction. If there are no additions or corrections, the minutes
shall stand approved.
(2001 Code, § 2.07)
§ 30.10 SALARIES OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   (A)   The Mayor and each Council member shall receive an annual salary and,
in addition to their regular compensation, additional compensation for each
special meeting of the Council which they attend.
   (B)   The salaries and additional compensation shall be set by the City
Council.
(2001 Code, § 2.08)
ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS AND OTHER LEGISLATION
§ 30.25 READINGS.
   Every ordinance and resolution shall be presented in writing. An ordinance
or resolution need not be read in full unless a Council member requests a
reading.
(2001 Code, § 2.05)
§ 30.26 SIGNING AND PUBLICATION PROOF.
   Every ordinance and resolution passed by the Council shall be signed by the
Mayor, attested by the Clerk-Treasurer and filed by the Clerk-Treasurer in the
ordinance or resolution book. Proof of publication of every ordinance shall be
attached and filed with the ordinance.
(2001 Code, § 2.05)
§ 30.27 REPEALS AND AMENDMENTS.
   Every ordinance or resolution repealing a previous ordinance or resolution
or a section or division shall give the number, if any, and the title of the
ordinance or code number of the ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole
or in part. Each ordinance or resolution amending an existing ordinance or
resolution or some part of it shall set forth in full each amended section or
subdivision as it will read with the amendment.
(2001 Code, § 2.05)
§ 30.28 MOTIONS, PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   Every motion shall be stated in full before the Presiding Officer submits it
to a vote. Every petition or other communication addressed to the Council shall
be in writing and shall be read in full upon presentation to the Council unless
the Council dispenses with the reading. Each petition or other communication
shall be recorded in the minutes by title and filed with the minutes.
(2001 Code, § 2.05)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES AND ORGANIZATIONS
Section
   
31.01   Clerk-Treasurer
   
31.02   Planning Commission
   
31.03   Personnel policy; Personnel Committee
§ 31.01 CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   Establishment. The office of the City Clerk-Treasurer is continued.
The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall be appointed by and serve at the will of the
Council. The compensation to be paid to the city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall be set
by the Council.
   (B)   Duties. The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Conduct elections as required by law;
      (2)   File and preserve all official documents of the city;
      (3)   Act as Secretary of the City Council;
      (4)   Issue city licenses upon Council approval;
      (5)   Maintain an official codification of ordinances;
      (6)   Prepare the annual budget;
      (7)   Maintain the financial accounts of the city;
      (8)   Prepare financial reports and information; and
      (9)   Maintain custody of city funds, investments and securities.
(2001 Code, § 2.20)
§ 31.02 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. A Planning Commission for the city is continued.
   (B)   Composition. The Planning Commission shall consist of five members
appointed by the City Council. One member shall be a member of the City Council
and four members shall be residents of the city. Of the four city resident
members first appointed by the Council, two residents shall be appointed for a
term of two years and two residents shall be appointed for a term of three
years. Thereafter, city residents shall be appointed for a term of three years.
The City Council member shall be appointed to serve until such time as a
successor is appointed by the City Council. Terms of members shall commence and
the appointments shall be made at the first regular Council meeting in January
of each year. Any vacant position shall be filled for the unexpired term of
office by the City Council. Upon the expiration of any term of office, the
member appointed to the position for which the term has expired shall continue
to serve until the time as a successor is appointed. Any member may be removed
from office for cause by a four-fifths vote of the City Council. Every
appointed member shall, before entering upon the discharge of his or her
duties, take an oath that he or she will faithfully discharge the duties of his
or her office. All members shall serve with compensation. This compensation
shall be set annually by the City Council.
   (C)   Organization. The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among the
appointed members for a term of one year. The Commission may create and fill
other offices as deemed appropriate. The Commission shall adopt rules for the
operation of the Commission.
   (D)   Powers and responsibilities. The duties and responsibilities of the
Planning Commission shall be as follows.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall be the planning agency for the city,
as defined by M.S. § 462.352, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall
have the powers and duties given to such agencies by state statutes.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall conduct meetings at such times deemed
appropriate by the Commission or directed by the City Council. The meetings
shall be open to the public. The Commission at the first meeting of each year
may establish a schedule of regular meetings for the year.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall maintain permanent minutes and
records of Commission meetings and proceedings and file the records with the
City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall advise the City Council regarding
planning matters and assist the City Council in the development and maintenance
of a comprehensive plan.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall perform reviews and make
recommendations as may be requested or required by the City Council.
      (6)   The Planning Commission may adopt rules and bylaws for the
operation of the Commission.
(2001 Code, § 2.50)
§ 31.03 PERSONNEL POLICY; PERSONNEL COMMITTEE.
   (A)   Establishment. The Personnel Committee is continued.
   (B)   Composition. The Personnel Committee shall consist of two members
appointed by the City Council. At least one of those members shall be a member
of the City Council. The appointments shall be made at the first regular
Council meeting in January of each year. Any vacant position shall be filled
for the unexpired term of office by the City Council.
   (C)   Powers and responsibilities. The duties and responsibilities of the
Personnel Committee shall be as follows.
      (1)   The Committee shall conduct meetings at such times as it deems
appropriate. The Committee shall adhere to all public meeting and data privacy
laws in determining whether or not the meeting shall be open to the public.
      (2)   The Committee shall maintain records as required by law. Any such
records shall be filed with the city’s Clerk-Treasurer.
      (3)   The Personnel Committee shall advise the City Council regarding
personnel matters and assist the City Council in the development and
maintenance of a uniform and equitable system of personnel administration for
city employees.
(2001 Code, § 2.60)
CHAPTER 32: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Police Department
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Chief of Police
   
32.03   Duties
   
32.04   Uniform and badge
   
32.05   Extra police
Emergency Management
   
32.20   Policy and purpose
   
32.21   Definitions
   
32.22   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
32.23   Powers and duties of Director
   
32.24   Local emergencies
   
32.25   Emergency regulations
   
32.26   Emergency management a government function
   
32.27   Participation in labor disputes or politics
Fire Department
   
32.40   Establishment
   
32.41   Selection
   
32.42   Fire Chief
   
32.43   Records
   
32.44   Practice drills
   
32.45   Firefighters
   
32.46   Rules
   
32.47   Compensation
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Police Department is continued. The head of the Department shall be
known as the Chief of Police and the number of additional members of the
Department shall be determined by the Council. The Chief of Police and
Assistant Police Chief shall be appointed by and serve at the will of the
Council. The Chief of Police shall appoint police officers, subject to
confirmation by the Council. The compensation to be paid members of the
Department shall be set by the Council. In the absence or disability of the
Chief, the Assistant Chief shall perform all the functions and exercise all of
the authority of the Chief. The Police Chief, the Assistant Police Chief and
all Police Department personnel shall be not less than 18, nor more than 65,
years of age and able-bodied. They shall become members of the Police
Department only after a 12-month probationary period. The Council may require
that each candidate, before becoming a probationary police officer, must
satisfy certain minimum qualifications, which may be specified by the Council,
and that the candidate must pass a satisfactory physical examination. The
Council shall review these minimum requirements annually.
(2001 Code, § 2.21)
§ 32.02 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have supervision and control of the
Assistant Police Chief, the Police Department and its members. The Chief shall
be responsible to the Council for law enforcement and for property of the city
used by the Department. The Chief shall be responsible for the proper training
and discipline of the members of the Department and may suspend any member for
refusal or neglect to obey orders pending final action by the Council on the
discharge or retention. The Chief shall be responsible for the keeping of
adequate records and shall report to the Council on the needs of the Department
and its work.
   (B)   Every member of the Department subordinate to the Chief shall obey the
instructions of the Chief and any superior officer.
(2001 Code, § 2.21)
§ 32.03 DUTIES.
   Members of the Police Department shall:
   (A)   Enforce laws applicable to the city;
   (B)   Engage in crime prevention;
   (C)   Engage in protection of lives and property;
   (D)   Maintain property of the Police Department;
   (E)   Maintain necessary records of the Department; and
   (F)   Engage in educational activities pertaining to crime prevention.
(2001 Code, § 2.21)
§ 32.04 UNIFORM AND BADGE.
   Each member of the Department shall, while on duty, wear a suitable badge
and uniform; except that, the Chief may authorize the performance of specific
duties while not in uniform. When a member terminates membership in the
Department, the member shall immediately deliver to the city all city property
and equipment.
(2001 Code, § 2.21)
§ 32.05 EXTRA POLICE.
   In case of riot or other law enforcement emergency, the Chief of Police may
appoint for a specified time as many special police officers as may be
necessary for the maintenance of law and order. During the term of appointment,
the special police officer shall have only those powers and perform only those
duties specifically assigned by the Chief of Police.
(2001 Code, § 2.21)
EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 32.20 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to insure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters.
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters.
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions.
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
§ 32.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, fire-fighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. Emergency
management includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city- level planning and preparation for disaster response. This organization
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
§ 32.22 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency management
organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the City
Emergency Management Director, called the Director. The Director shall be
appointed by the City Council for an indefinite term and may be removed by the
Council at any time. The Director shall serve with a salary as established by
the City Council and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director
shall have direct responsibility for the organization, administration and
operation of the emergency preparedness organization, subject to the direction
and control of the Council. The emergency management organization shall conform
to and be consistent with, where applicable, all state and federal
requirements, including the National Incident Management System framework found
at 44 CFR part 201, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 32.23 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director shall represent the city on any regional or state
conference for emergency management. The Director shall develop proposed mutual
aid agreements with other political subdivisions of the state for reciprocal
emergency management aid and assistance in an emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and shall present these agreements to the Council for its
action. These arrangements shall be consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city's emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services law, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
§ 32.24 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions.
However, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.25 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services, emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations, drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training, and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing; shall
be dated; shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk. A copy shall be
kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours. Notice
of the
existence of these regulations and their availability for inspection at the
City Clerk's Office shall be conspicuously posted at the front of the city hall
or other headquarters of the city or at other places in the affected area as
the Council shall designate in the resolution. By resolution, the Council may
modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.37, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 32.26 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he would otherwise
be entitled under this resolution or under the worker's compensation law, or
under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
§ 32.27 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.40 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The Volunteer Fire Department is continued.
   (B)   The head of the Department shall be known as the Fire Chief.
(2001 Code, § 2.23)
§ 32.41 SELECTION.
   (A)   The Fire Chief, the Assistant Fire Chief and other officers shall be
elected annually by the members of the Department, subject to confirmation by
the Council. Each shall hold office for one year and until a successor has been
duly elected; except that, the Council may remove the officer for cause after a
public hearing. The Fire Chief shall appoint firefighters and probationary
firefighters, subject to confirmation by the Council.
   (B)   Firefighters shall continue as members of the Department during good
behavior and may be removed by the Council only for cause after a public
hearing.
(2001 Code, § 2.23)
§ 32.42 FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall have control over all of the firefighting
apparatus and shall be solely responsible for its care and condition. The Chief
shall report to the Council as to the condition of the equipment and needs of
the Fire Department. The Chief may submit additional reports and
recommendations to the Council and shall report each suspension of a member of
the Fire Department at the first meeting of the Council following each
suspension. The Chief shall be responsible for the proper training and
discipline of the members of the Fire Department and may suspend any member for
refusal or neglect to obey orders pending final action by the Council on the
discharge or retention.
   (B)   In the absence or disability of the Chief, the Assistant Chief shall
perform all the functions and exercise all of the authority of the Chief.
(2001 Code, § 2.23)
§ 32.43 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Chief shall keep, in convenient form, a complete record of all
fires.
   (B)   The record shall include the time of the alarm, location of fire,
cause of fire (if known), type of building, name of owner and tenant, purpose
for which occupied, value of building and contents, members of the Department
responding to the alarm and other information as the Chief may deem advisable
or as may be required from time to time by the Council or State Department.
(2001 Code, § 2.23)
§ 32.44 PRACTICE DRILLS.
   It is the duty of the Chief to hold a monthly practice drill of at least one
hour’s duration for the Fire Department and to give the firefighters
instruction in approved methods of firefighting and fire prevention.
(2001 Code, § 2.23)
§ 32.45 FIREFIGHTERS.
   The Fire Chief, the Assistant Fire Chief and all firefighters and
probationary firefighters shall be not less than 18, nor more than 65, years of
age and able-bodied. They shall become members of the Fire Department only
after a 12-month probationary period. The Council may require that each
candidate, before becoming a probationary firefighter, must satisfy certain
minimum qualifications, which may be specified by the Council, and that the
candidate must pass a satisfactory physical examination. The Council shall
review these minimum requirements annually.
(2001 Code, § 2.23)
§ 32.46 RULES.
   The Fire Department may adopt rules and bylaws for the operation of the
Department.
(2001 Code, § 2.23)
§ 32.47 COMPENSATION.
   Compensation shall be set annually by the City Council.
(2001 Code, § 2.23)
CHAPTER 33: GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE POLICIES
Section
Designated Predatory Offender Residency Restrictions
   
33.01   Title
   
33.02   Purpose
   
33.03   Findings
   
33.04   Definitions
   
33.05   Prohibited acts
   
33.06   Exceptions
   
33.07   Property owners prohibited from renting real property in exclusion
zones
DESIGNATED PREDATORY OFFENDER RESIDENCY RESTRICTIONS
§ 33.01 TITLE.
   The title of this subchapter shall be the “Designated Predatory Offender
Residency Restrictions”.
(Ord. 15, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 33.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the express intent of the city to protect the nature of the
community for all of its citizens. In order to fulfill that interest, the City
Council has determined that it is appropriate to restrict the residency of
certain predatory offenders by creating areas around locations where children
regularly congregate in concentrated numbers. Certain predatory offenders are
prohibited from establishing temporary or permanent residence in the areas.
   (B)   It also the intent of the city to mitigate the concentration of
certain predatory offenders in any particular area, prohibiting certain
predatory offenders from establishing temporary or permanent residence within
close proximity of one another.
(Ord. 15, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 33.03 FINDINGS.
   The City Council finds that repeat predatory offenders present a real threat
to the public safety and especially to that of children. Certain predatory
offenders are likely to use physical violence and present a high risk to repeat
their offenses. This makes dealing with the danger posed to the public safety
and especially that of children by those certain predatory offenders extremely
important.
(Ord. 15, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 33.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNATED PREDATORY OFFENDER. Any person who is required to register as a
predatory offender under M.S. § 243.166, as it may be amended from time to
time, and who has been categorized as a Level III predatory offender under M.S.
§ 244.052, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time, a successor statute
or a similar statute from another state.
   LICENSED CHILD CARE CENTER. A child care center currently licensed by the
county’s Public Health and Human Services Department.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges or resides for 14
or more consecutive days.
   PUBLIC PARK/PLAYGROUND. Any city-owned, or privately-owned but open to the
public, area designed, equipped and set aside for children’s play and includes
in that area such facilities as play equipment, surfacing, fencing, signs,
internal pathways, internal land forms, vegetation and related structures.
   SCHOOL. A public or non-public preschool, elementary or secondary school.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges or resides for a
period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and which
is not the person’s permanent address or a place where the person routinely
abides, lodges or resides for a period of four or more consecutive or non-
consecutive days in any month and which is not the person’s permanent
residence.
(Ord. 15, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 33.05 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Prohibited location of residence. It is unlawful for any designated
predatory offender to establish a permanent residence or temporary residence
within 2,000 feet of any of the following:
      (1)   Public or private school;
      (2)   Licensed child care provider, including, but not limited to, home
care providers which are licensed by the state and/or county;
      (3)   Public parks and playgrounds;
      (4)   Places of worship which provide regular educational programs;
      (5)   Designated public trails;
      (6)   Public and private gymnasiums;
      (7)   Libraries;
      (8)   Public beaches;
      (9)   Sports facilities (i.e., baseball fields, softball fields, football
fields, ice rinks, hockey rinks, sliding hills, soccer fields, volleyball
courts, tennis courts and the like) where children are known to congregate; and
      (10)   Permanent or temporary residence of any other designated predatory
offender.
   (B)   Measurement of distance. For purposes of determining the minimum
distance separation, the requirement shall be measured by following a straight
line from the outer property line of the permanent residence or temporary
residence to the nearest outer property line of the properties listed in
division (A) above.
(Ord. 15, passed 7-6-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.06 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not apply under the following circumstances:
   (A)   The designated predatory offender established the permanent residence
or temporary residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to
M.S. §§ 243.166 and 243.167, as they may be amended from time to time, or a
successor statute, prior to 7-6-2015;
   (B)   The designated predatory offender was a minor when he or she committed
the offense and was not convicted as an adult;
   (C)   The designated predatory offender is a minor;
   (D)   The designated predatory offender has been granted a risk level
reduction by the End of Confinement Review Committee, pursuant to M.S. §
244.052, subd. 3(i), as it may be amended from time to time;
   (E)   The school, licensed child care center or public playground within
2,000 feet of the person’s permanent residence was opened after the designated
predatory offender established the permanent residence or temporary residence
and reported and registered the residence pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.166 and
243.167, as they may be amended from time to time, or a successor statute; and
   (F)   The residence is also the primary residence of the designated
predatory offender’s parents, grandparents, siblings or spouse, and was their
residence prior to 7-6-2015.
(Ord. 15, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 33.07 PROPERTY OWNERS PROHIBITED FROM RENTING REAL PROPERTY IN EXCLUSION
ZONES.
   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to rent or lease real estate to
any designated predatory offender if the property is in the prohibited zone
established in §
33.05 of this chapter. If a property owner discovers or is informed that a
tenant is a designated offender after a rental agreement is signed, a property
owner shall commence eviction proceedings against the designated offender and
take action to ensure that the designated offender is not residing in the
exclusion zone.
(Ord. 15, passed 7-6-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 34: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
34.01   Salary and fee schedules
§ 34.01 SALARY AND FEE SCHEDULES.
   The city shall maintain a fee schedule that is available to the public at
City Hall. The City Council shall set compensation and the rate of fees
annually by resolution at its first meeting in January. Fees may be adjusted by
Council resolution.
   (A)   Compensation of appointed officials. The compensation of the City
Clerk, Police Department, Street Department and any other city staff position
shall be as budgeted.
   (B)   Compensation of elections judges. The compensation for election judges
will be set annually on the city fee schedule.
   (C)   Compensation of the Fire Department. The compensation for the Fire
Chief, Assistant Fire Chief and volunteer firefighters shall be set annually at
the first Council meeting of the year. The Fire Department shall provide any
proposed changes to the compensation to the City Council by July 1 of the year
prior to enactment so that it can be included in the city budget.
   (D)   Compensation of the Mayor and City Council. The compensations of the
Mayor and City Council shall continue as previously set and may be modified as
follows: if the rate or compensation is going to be increased any increase may
take effect only after the next Council election; any decrease in pay may take
effect immediately.
   (E)   Rates and charges for municipal utilities. The city shall set rates
for the installation and provision of city utilities, including, but not
limited to, sewer connection fees, contingency charges, permit and inspection
fees and sewer and water rates. The city may also impose a late fee, returned
check fee and interest upon any delinquent account. The rates and fees shall be
established a resolution and modified by resolution. Any interest fee charged
to an account may not exceed 18% per annum.
   (F)   Business license fees. The city shall set the amount of the business
license fees required under the code by resolution and set annually on the city
fee schedule.
   (G)   Liquor and beer license fees. Consumption and display permit fees,
intoxicating liquor license fees, investigation fees, non-intoxicating malt
liquor fees and wine licenses fees shall be set by resolution of the City
Council and placed on the city fee schedule.
   (H)   Cannabis business registration. Registration fees for any business
that has obtained a license for the State Office of Cannabis shall pay a fee as
set by the City Council by resolution and placed on the city fee schedule.
   (I)   Maintenance fees. Maintenance fees shall be set by the City Council by
resolution and placed on the city fee schedule.
   (J)   Rental fees for City Hall. A damage and rental fee may be required for
the use of the City Hall. The City Council by resolutions shall set the amount
of the deposit and the rental fee by resolution and placed on the city fee
schedule.
   (K)   Rental fees for concession stand. A damage deposit and rental fee may
be required for the rental of any city-owned concession stand and the amount of
the damage deposit and rental fees shall be set by resolution of the City
Council and placed on the city fee schedule.
   (L)   Zoning and subdivisions fees. The City Council shall set a conditional
use permit fee, plat fee, variance fee, zoning amendment fee and zoning permit
fee by resolution and the fees shall be placed on city fee schedules. In
addition to the required fees all zoning and subdivision applicants are
responsible for the expenses of the city involving any meeting and/or
publication incurred by the city as a result of the request.
   (M)   Miscellaneous fees. The City Council may set other fees. Any such fee
will be created by resolution and placed on the city fee schedule.
(Ord. 25-01, passed 7-14-2025)
CHAPTER 35: ENFORCING ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
Section
   
35.01   Definitions
   
35.02   Purpose and intent
   
35.03   Administrative offense defined
   
35.04   Notice
   
35.05   City code violations
   
35.06   Payment
   
35.07   Hearing
   
35.08   Failure to pay
   
35.09   Disposition of penalties
§ 35.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE FINE. The civil fine imposed for an administrative offense
which has been approved on a schedule adopted by the City Council.
   CITATION. A written notice issued to a person or entity who is charged with
violating an administrative or other violation as hereinafter described.
   CODE. Any provision of the city code as amended from time to time.
   NOTICE. A letter written by the City Clerk or an officer of the City Police
Department or their designee, on city letterhead, which provides the date, time
and nature of an administrative offense and the time for responding.
(Ord. 25-02, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 35.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Administrative offense procedures established pursuant to this section
are intended to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost
effective and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges or civil
actions for violations of certain code provisions.
   (B)   The procedures are intended to be voluntary on the part of those who
have been charged with administrative offenses. At any time prior to the
payment of the administrative penalty as is provided for thereafter, the
individual may withdraw from participation in the procedures, in which event
the city may bring criminal charges or commence a civil action in accordance
with the law. Likewise, the city, in its discretion, may choose not to initiate
an administrative offense and may bring criminal charges or commence a civil
action in the first instance.
   (C)   In the event a party participates in the administrative offense
procedures, but does not pay the monetary penalty, which may be imposed, the
city will seek to collect the costs of the administrative offense procedures as
part of a subsequent criminal or civil action.
(Ord. 25-02, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 35.03 ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSE. A violation of the provisions of the city code and
is subject to the administrative penalties set forth in the schedule of offense
and penalties set by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 25-02, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 35.04 NOTICE.
   (A)   The City Clerk, an officer of the City Police Department or their
designee, upon determining that there has been a violation, shall notify the
violator or the property owner.
   (B)   The notice shall set forth the nature, date and time of the violation,
the name of the party issuing the notice and the amount of the scheduled
penalty or fine. These fines shall supersede all other fines previously imposed
for the listed offenses.
(Ord. 25-02, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 35.05 CITY CODE VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of the following provisions of the city code, or their
successors, shall be deemed an administrative offense subject to the hearing
process of this chapter. Violations are characterized as property, non-
property, licenses and parking violations:
   (A)   
Chapter 70 Vehicle Operation and Parking;
   (B)   
Chapter 71 Recreational Vehicles;
   (C)   
Chapter 90 Animals;
   (D)   
Chapter 91 Parks and Recreations;
   (E)   
Chapter 92 Health and Sanitation: Nuisance;
   (F)   
Chapter 110 Licensing;
   (G)   
Chapter 111 Peddler;
   (H)   
Chapter 112 Tobacco;
   (I)   
Chapter 113 Amusement and Leisure;
   (J)   
Chapter 114 Liquor Licenses;
   (K)   
Chapter 115 Adult Orientated Businesses;
   (L)   
Chapter 130 General Offenses; and
   (M)   
Chapter 131 Noise.
(Ord. 25-02, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 35.06 PAYMENT.
   (A)   Payment of fine. Once such notice is given, the person responsible for
the violation shall, within 15 days of the time of issuance of the notice, pay
in full the stated fine to the city. The penalty may be paid in person or by
mail, and payment shall be deemed an admission of the violation.
   (B)   Assessment of Certain Unpaid Fines. Certain unpaid fines for specific
property related violations may be assessed against the property which was the
subject matter or related to the subject matter of the civil fine or the
property which was the location of the activity, use or delivery or city
services which resulted in the civil fine.
      (1)   Notice of Assessment. Prior to the assessment of the unpaid fine,
the city designee shall seek voluntary payment of the fine by notifying the
property owner in writing of the intended assessment and procedure for making
voluntary.
      (2)   Procedure for Assessments. On or before the first day of September
of each year, the unpaid civil fine and late fees against the lot or parcel of
land of the noticed party, together with a description of the premises and the
name of the supposed owner, shall be certified to the County Auditor and
collected in the same manner as taxes or special assessments against the
premises.
      (3)   Late fees. A late fee may be imposed for each 20 days the penalty
remains unpaid after the first 20-day period. The amount late fee will be
listed on the fee schedule set by the City Council.
(Ord. 25-02, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 35.07 HEARING.
   Any person contesting an administrative offense pursuant to this section
may, within 15 days of the time of the issuance of the notice, may provide the
city with written notice requesting a hearing before the City Council to
determine if a violation has occurred.
(Ord. 25-02, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 35.08 FAILURE TO PAY.
   In the event that a party charged with an administrative offense fails to
pay the penalty, a petty misdemeanor or misdemeanor charge may be brought
against the alleged violator in accordance with applicable statutes or
ordinances.
(Ord. 25-02, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 35.09 DISPOSITION OF PENALTIES.
   All penalties collected pursuant to this section shall be paid to the city
and deposited in the General Fund.
(Ord. 25-02, passed 7-14-2025)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   UTILITIES GENERALLY
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERS
      
53.   SOLID WASTE
CHAPTER 50: UTILITIES GENERALLY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Rates and charges
   
50.03   Contractual contents
Rules and Regulations
   
50.15   Application, connection and sale of service
   
50.16   Connection fees
   
50.17   Ownership of municipal utilities
   
50.18   Right of entry
   
50.19   Owner’s responsibility
   
50.20   Billing, payment and assessment
   
50.21   Termination or suspension of service
   
50.22   Unlawful acts
   
50.23   Services to consumers outside the city
   
50.24   Abandoned service
   
50.25   Service connection prior to street construction
   
50.26   Costs for shut off valve repair
   
50.27   Service connection prior to paying and repaying
   
50.28   Wellhead protection area considerations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this public works title, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUSTOMER. Any user of a utility.
   FRANCHISEE. Any private utility company or system to which a franchise has
been granted by the city.
   REFUSE. Garbage, household refuse and yard debris.
   SERVICE. Providing a particular utility to a customer.
   SEWER, BUILDING. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
   SEWER, SANITARY. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface
and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWER, STORM. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters and drainage,
but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than unpolluted cooling water.
   SOLID WASTE COLLECTION SERVICE. The city or its designee.
   UTILITY. All utility services, whether public municipally-owned facilities
or furnished by private utility companies, except those regulated exclusively
by the state or federal government.
   UTILITY, MUNICIPAL. Any municipally-owned utility system.
(2001 Code, § 3.01)
§ 50.02 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   All rates and charges for municipal utilities shall be fixed and
determined by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this public works title to establish and impose
just and equitable charges for the availability of certain utility systems,
including water systems, waste water systems and related facilities, and for
the connections therewith, to pay for the construction, reconstruction, repair,
enlargement, improvement or other obtainment and the maintenance, operation and
use of the facilities. The charges are authorized and shall be determined and
imposed in accordance with M.S. §§ 444.075 and 429.021, as they may be amended
from time to time.
   (C)   (1)   Minimum quarterly charges for the availability of water and/or
sewer service may be imposed for all premises abutting on streets or other
places where municipal water mains are located whether or not connected to
them.
      (2)   Minimum charges, user charges or contingency fees collected for
water or sanitary sewers systems must be used only to pay for construction,
reconstruction, repair, enlargement, improvement or other obtainment, the
maintenance, operation and use of the facilities and complying with permits
covered by law.
      (3)   Minimum charges are charged and collected on a per unit basis.
      (4)   A building or portion thereof designed or used exclusively for
residential occupancy, including one-family, two-family, multi-family units,
manufactured homes and apartment buildings, but not including hotels, boarding
or lodging houses.
      (5)   Buildings may contain more than one dwelling (i.e., apartment
building), as defined herein. Therefore, a building with more than one dwelling
will have each dwelling counted as one unit, as described herein (i.e., one
apartment is considered one unit).
      (6)   Computation of units is as follows:
Apartment buildings                       1 unit per dwelling
Low-income/subsidized housing units       1 unit per dwelling
Manufactured home                         1 unit per dwelling
Mixed use buildings                       1 unit per dwelling, plus 1 unit per
                                          place of business
Multi-family dwellings                    1 unit per dwelling
Other buildings and commercial structures 1 unit per dwelling
Single-family home                        1 unit
Townhouses and duplexes                   1 unit per dwelling
 
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall be held or construed as in any way
stopping or interfering with the city’s right to certify unpaid service and
assessments against any premises affected, any past due and/or delinquent fees,
including interest and late fees.
(2001 Code, § 3.02) (Ord. passed 4-4-2016)
§ 50.03 CONTRACTUAL CONTENTS.
   Provisions of this public works title relating to municipal utilities shall
constitute portions of a contract between the city and all customers of
municipal utility services, and every customer shall be deemed to assent to
same. All contracts between franchisees and customers of utility services other
than municipal shall be in accordance with provisions of this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 3.03)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 50.15 APPLICATION, CONNECTION AND SALE OF SERVICE.
   Application for municipal utility services installation shall be made to the
City Clerk-Treasurer’s office on forms prescribed by the city. The applicant
agrees to conform to this public works title and to rules and regulations
established by the city as conditions for the use of the water, sewer, refuse
and recycling services. No connection shall be made until completed application
and consent has been received from the city. All municipal utilities shall be
sold and delivered to customers under the then applicable rate.
(2001 Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.16 CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   When a connection requires installation of a service line from the
main to the property line, the applicant for a permit shall pay to the city a
fee.
   (B)   The amount shall not be less than the cost of making the necessary
connections, taps and installation of pipe and appurtenances to provide service
to the property and the necessary street repairs.
(2001 Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.17 OWNERSHIP OF MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   Ownership of all municipal utilities, pipes, lines, mains, extensions and
appurtenances, except for service lines connected to city mains and service
line accessories, shall be and remain in the city and not in any person.
(2001 Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.18 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The city has the right to enter in and upon private property,
including buildings and dwelling houses and easements, in or upon which is
installed a municipal utility, or a connection.
   (B)   The right to enter shall be for all times reasonable under the
circumstances, for the purpose of reading utility meters and/or for the purpose
of inspection and/or repair of meters or a utility system and for the purpose
of connecting or disconnecting service.
(2001 Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.19 OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   Utility accounts shall be carried in the name of the property owner. The
property owner shall be liable for water, sewer, refuse and recycling services
supplied to the property whether the owner is occupying the property or not.
Any unpaid charges shall be a lien upon the property and may be assessed as
provided under this public works title and state statute.
(2001 Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.20 BILLING, PAYMENT AND ASSESSMENT.
   Charges for all municipal utilities shall be made in utility statements
forwarded to the customer at intervals as the Council may determine. Utility
charges shall be delinquent if not paid on or before the due date set forth on
the utility statement. The city, through the city’s Clerk-Treasurer or whoever
prepares the city utility statements, may terminate or suspend any utility
service to any customer whose utility charge has become delinquent provided the
notice requirements of §
50.21(B), (C) or (D) of this chapter have been followed. In such event, utility
service shall not be restored until a service renewal charge in the amount
determined by the city has been paid in addition to any amount owed for
service. If payment of the amounts are not made within ten days after the
termination or suspension, the City Council may initiate a legal action. The
action may be against either the owner or occupant of the premises served, or
both, or the unpaid charges may be certified to the county with the taxes
against the property served and collected as other assessments.
(2001 Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.21 TERMINATION OR SUSPENSION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   Grounds for termination or suspension. Any municipal utility may be
terminated, discontinued or suspended whenever:
      (1)   The owner or occupant of the premises served, or any person working
on any connection with a municipal utility, has violated any requirement of the
city code;
      (2)   Any charge for a municipal utility service, or any other financial
obligation imposed on the present or any former owner or occupant if the
premises service, is delinquent or unpaid;
      (3)   There is fraud or misrepresentation by the owner or occupant in
connection with any application for service or delivery of charges; or
      (4)   A customer has permitted a person to subconnect another building or
property to the consumer’s utility service.
   (B)   Procedure for delinquent accounts.
      (1)   Utility bills shall be delinquent if not paid on or before the due
date set forth on the bill; provided that, in the event the due date is a
Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, charges shall not be delinquent until after
the following business day. A penalty shall be applied to the past due amount
as set by the City Council.
      (2)   Where satisfactory arrangements for payment of a delinquent account
have not been made, the city may, after the procedural requirements of this
public works title have been complied with, discontinue service to a delinquent
customer by shutting off the water to the property.
      (3)   When water service to a property has been discontinued, service
shall not be restored, except upon the payment of all delinquent charges
including a disconnect and reconnect fee as set in with the current fee
schedule set by the City Council or once a certification to the tax role is
made.
   (C)   Non-sufficient funds. In the event a non-sufficient fund (NSF) check
is received, a letter will be mailed to the property owner notifying him or her
of the NSF check. The property owner has five days from the date of the letter
to submit full payment by means of cash, money order or certified check. If
full payment is not received in five days, water service shall be discontinued
subject to the disconnection procedure.
      (1)   The property owner shall be subject to an NSF fee as provided in
accordance with the current fee schedule set by the City Council.
      (2)   Once the account is current, the property owner shall be allowed to
submit future payments by means of a personal check. If the property owner
submits a second NSF check to the city within six months of the previous NSF
check, the city shall not accept a personal check for a period of six months.
After six months of payments by cash, money order or certified check, and the
account remains in good standing, the city shall accept personal checks from
the property owner.
   (D)   Shut off for non-payment.
      (1)   Once an account is 60 days past due, the property owner is subject
to a water service shut off for non-payment.
      (2)   Water shall not be shut off until a notice has been provided to the
occupant and property owner.
      (3)   A notice shall be mailed by first class mail and shall state that
if payment is not made within ten days of the mailing date of the shut off
notice, the water service to the property shall be shut off for non-payment.
      (4)   When water service to a property has been disconnected, service
shall not be restored, except upon the payment of all delinquent charges
including a disconnection and reconnection fee as set in with the current fee
schedule set by the city.
   (E)   Disconnection for late payment.
      (1)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill; and
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall
have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person
and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present
orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city official
in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that
the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make
a final determination of the customer's complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in the sum of $20.
   (F)   For each certification sustained/postponed. The property owner hall
have the following options after the hearing:
      (1)   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll, but
without additional interest after the hearing, within ten days of the hearing
date;
      (2)   To pay the certified delinquent amount after the hearing date, but
before the county’s certification deadline, with interest as approved by the
City Council; and
      (3)   To pay the certified charges as billed to the property owner by the
county on his or her property tax statement with a collection term of one year.
   (G)   Cold weather rule, residential customers.
      (1)   The cold weather rule, followed as per M.S. § 216B.097, as it may
be amended from time to time, is in effect October 15 to April 15 of each year
for residents who use water as their main heating source.
      (2)   The city shall not disconnect water service for a residential
customer if discontinuation affects the primary heat source for the residential
unit if the customer meets all requirements of state statute.
(2001 Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.22 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, mar, deface, disturb or in any way interfere with any buildings,
attachments, machinery, apparatus, equipment, fixture or appurtenance of any
municipal utility or municipal utility system, or commit any act tending to
obstruct or impair the use of any municipal utility.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to make any connection with any
municipal utility without first having applied for and received permission from
the city to make the same.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to turn on or connect a utility when the
same has been turned off or disconnected by the city for non-payment of a bill
or for any other reason, without first having applied for and received
permission from the city to do so.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to fully or partially circumvent a
municipal utility meter, or to knowingly use or consume unmetered utilities or
use the services of any utility system, the use of which the proper billing
authorities have no knowledge.
   (E)   It is unlawful for there to be any unmetered water service on the city
distribution system and it is prohibited.
   (F)   Any person or entity committing a unlawful act under this section may
be subject to immediate disconnection of service and/or civil and criminal
penalties.
(2001 Code, § 3.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.23 SERVICES TO CONSUMERS OUTSIDE THE CITY.
   The city shall pay for no portion of the cost of extending municipal utility
services to consumers outside of the corporate limits of the city. Persons
outside of the city limits requesting utility service shall make application to
the City Council for approval or rejection. Only water and wastewater service
shall be provided outside of the corporate limits of the city. Water service
shall not be supplied without wastewater service, nor shall wastewater service
be supplied without water service. All utility mains, pipes and accessories for
the connections shall be installed by the customer at his or her own expense
and shall conform to the established standards for material and installation
methods as provided for and determined by the city. Failure on the part of the
customer to repair or maintain any such utility service, pipes or accessories
shall be deemed grounds for shutting off the utility. In such case the utility
shall not be turned on again until the utility service, pipes and accessories
both in city and outside the city are in good repair and conform to all
regulations of the city. The City Council may grant utility service to
customers outside the city on such conditions as it may deem reasonable in the
public interest. The rights may be granted for a definite period of time. If
not granted for a definite period of time, the extension outside of the city
limits may be terminated when deemed in the best interests of the city, upon
one year’s written notice from the city to the customer.
(2001 Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.24 ABANDONED SERVICE.
   (A)   In case a utility service is abandoned, service will be cut off at the
main as required by the city. If the owner neglects or refuses to do so, the
city shall cause the work to be done and bill the cost for the work to the
customer. Customers wishing to temporarily discontinue the use of utilities
shall notify the city to that effect.
   (B)   The utilities shall then be turned off at the curb shut off box and
the charges for utilities shall cease; provided, all utility rents, penalties
and other charges under this public works title are paid.
(2001 Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.25 SERVICE CONNECTION PRIOR TO STREET CONSTRUCTION.
   Prior to street construction, the city shall determine where new services
are required or where existing services are in need of replacement or repair,
and shall notify the owner of the property affected that the construction or
repair must be done within a specified time. If not made by such time, the city
may cause the construction or repair made and assess the cost for the same
against the benefitted property.
(2001 Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.26 COSTS FOR SHUT OFF VALVE REPAIR.
   (A)   Any and all costs incurred by digging to locate any shut off valve
shall be borne by the city.
   (B)   All shut off valves shall be kept readily accessible for service by
maintenance personnel.
   (C)   In the event that any concrete or bituminous surface must be removed
in order to gain access to any shut off valve, all replacement costs shall be
borne by the individual city.
(2001 Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.27 SERVICE CONNECTION PRIOR TO PAYING AND REPAYING.
   (A)   The affected properties have one year to connect to city utilities
once they become available. In instances where only city water is available to
the property owner, the property owner may hook up to city water at that time
or delay utility connections until both city water and sewer services become
available.
   (B)   All properties within the city for which sewer and water are available
must connect to those services within one year of both services becoming
available. All properties within the city that has both sewer and water
available shall be charged a sewer connection fee and a water connection fee.
   (C)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer or water
when required by this public works title, the city may undertake to have said
connection made and shall charge the cost thereof against the property and the
charge shall be a lien against the property. The charge, when made, shall bear
interest at the rate of 1.5% over the prime interest rate per annum and shall
be certified to the Auditor of the county in which the connection is situated
and shall be collected and remitted to the city in the same manner as
assessments for local improvements. The rights of the city under this division
(C) shall be in addition to any other remedial or enforcement provisions of
this public works title.
(2001 Code, § 3.04)
§ 50.28 WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA CONSIDERATIONS.
   (A)   Identification. There are areas identified and classified by the
state’s Department of Health as wellhead protection areas. These areas are
considered especially sensitive and vulnerable to development. Because these
locations may directly affect the aquifer that supplies the city municipal
water system, special restrictions and regulations may be put in force on any
parcels, lots or tracts of land within these identified areas.
   (B)   Restrictions. Chemical applications of nutrients or fertilizers,
pesticides or herbicides may be regulated or require a special application
permit by the city. Frequent testing and monitoring of the water quality in
these areas will be conducted by the city water operator. Based upon the
results of the monitoring and testing, regulations may be imposed on these
parcels, lots or tracts of land that will not apply to lots, parcels or tracts
of land outside the defined wellhead protection area. If the city water
operator determines that restrictions or permits will need to be imposed, he or
she will report the need to report to the City Council for final determination
of necessary regulation and enforcement procedures.
(2001 Code, § 3.04)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Supply from one service
   
51.02   Property owner’s responsibility
   
51.03   Turning on water
   
51.04   Service pipes
   
51.05   Use of fire hydrants
   
51.06   Water meters; setting; reading and inspection
   
51.07   Restricted hours
   
51.08   Private water supply
   
51.09   Contamination
   
51.10   Curb stop boxes
§ 51.01 SUPPLY FROM ONE SERVICE.
   (A)   No more than one house or building shall be supplied from one service
connection, except by special permission of the Council.
   (B)   Whenever two or more parties are supplied from one pipe connecting
with a service main, each building or part of building separately supplied
shall have a separate stop box and a separate meter.
(2001 Code, § 3.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.02 PROPERTY OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The customer or owner shall be responsible for maintaining the service
pipe from the curb box into the building served.
   (B)   If the customer fails to repair any leak in the service pipe within 24
hours after notice by the city, the city may turn the water off.
   (C)   When the waste of water is great or damage is likely to result from
the leak, the city shall turn the water off immediately upon giving of notice
if repair is not commenced immediately.
(2001 Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.03 TURNING ON WATER.
   No person, except an authorized city employee, shall turn on any water
supply at the stop box or tap any distributing main or pipe of the water supply
system or insert a stop cork or other appurtenance without city permission.
(2001 Code, § 3.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 SERVICE PIPES.
   Every service pipe shall be laid with sufficient bend to allow not less than
one foot of extra length and in a manner as to prevent rupture by settlement.
The service pipe shall be placed not less than six feet below the surface and
be so arranged as to prevent rupture by freezing. A shut off or other stop cork
with waste valve of the size and strength required shall be placed close to the
inside wall of the building and be well-protected from freezing. Copper tubing
shall be used for all services of two inches or less. Joints on copper tubing
shall be as few as possible and not more than one joint shall be used for a
service up to 70 feet in length. Each joint shall be left uncovered until
inspected by the city. Connections with the mains for domestic supply shall be
at least one inch per residential unit or equivalent.
(2001 Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.05 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person other than an authorized city employee or member of the Fire
Department shall operate a fire hydrant or interfere in any way with the city
water system without first obtaining authority to do so from the city.
(2001 Code, § 3.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 WATER METERS; SETTING; READING AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Required.
      (1)   Except for extinguishing of fires, no person other than an
authorized city employee shall use water from the city water supply system or
permit water to be drawn unless the water passes through a meter supplied or
approved by the city. Purchase of the first water meter will be made by the
city. The owner or customer shall be held responsible for the care of the
currently installed meter, and will be required to pay for all meter repair or
replacement, caused to meters by himself, herself, his or her agent or the
occupants of the premises.
      (2)   The city’s determination of neglect or intentional damage shall be
conclusive and irrefutable.
   (B)   Water meter setting. Every water meter shall be installed in
accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   The service pipe from the water main to the meter shall be brought
through the floor in a vertical position where the pipe enters the building.
The stop and waste valve shall be 12 inches above the floor.
      (2)   The bottom of the meter shall be between six and 12 inches above
the finished floor line. The meter shall be set not more than 12 inches
horizontally from the inside line of the basement wall unless a different
position is approved by the city. A suitable bracket shall be provided to
support the meter in a proper vertical position and prevent noise from
vibration.
      (3)   Each meter installation shall have a stop and waste valve on the
street side of the meter. In no case shall more than 12 inches of pipe be
exposed between the point of entrance through the basement floor and the stop
and waste valve. A stop and waste valve shall also be installed on the house
side of the meter.
      (4)   The water pipe connecting with the main shall not exceed two feet
under the basement wall to the water meter connection.
      (5)   Deviation from the installation specifications in this division (B)
shall be by Council approval only.
   (C)   Meter reading and inspection. The occupants of any building or
premises where a water meter is located shall see that the meter is kept and
remains free from obstructions, and that it is conveniently accessible at all
times for the purpose of reading, inspecting or repairing. Authorized meter
readers shall have free access at reasonable hours of the day to all parts of
every building and premises connected with the city water supply system.
   (D)   Failed meters/no meter reads. In case any meter fails to register for
any cause, the amount charged for water during the period shall be estimated by
the City Council, the estimate to be based on the average amount registered
during a like previous period. If a reading is not detected, the city will do
an estimated reading based on the previous 12 months of usage.
   (E)   Maintenance. The city shall maintain and repair, at its expense, any
meter that has become unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall
replace it if necessary. Where repair or replacement is made necessary by act
or neglect of the owner or occupant of the premises it serves, any city expense
caused thereby, shall be charged against and collected from the water consumer,
and water service may be discontinued until the cause is corrected and the
amount charged is paid.
   (F)   Meter property of the city. Water meters shall be the property of the
city and may be removed or replaced as to size and type when deemed necessary.
(2001 Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.07 RESTRICTED HOURS.
   Whenever the Council determines that a shortage of water supply threatens
the city, it may, by resolution, limit the times and hours during which city
water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air conditioning or
other specified uses, and set a penalty for violation of the limits. After
publication of the resolution or two days after the mailing of the resolution
to each customer, no person shall use or permit water to be used in violation
of the resolution. If the emergency requires immediate compliance with terms of
the resolution, the Council may provide for the delivery of a copy of the
resolution to the premises of each customer. Any customer who has received the
notice and after that uses or permits water to be used is in violation of the
resolution. Continued violation shall be cause for discontinuance of water
service.
(2001 Code, § 3.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY.
   No water pipe of the city water supply system shall be connected with any
pump, well or tank that is connected with any other source of water supply.
When any such connection is found, the city shall notify the owner to sever the
connection. If this is not done immediately, the city shall turn off the water
supply. Before any new connection to the city system is permitted, the city
shall ascertain that no cross-connection will exist when the new connection is
made.
(2001 Code, § 3.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 CONTAMINATION.
   There shall be no construction of storm sewers, sanitary sewers or any other
source of contamination that may result in the pollution of the soil or ground
water within 50 feet of any city well.
(2001 Code, § 3.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.10 CURB STOP BOXES.
   Curb stop boxes shall be installed as near as possible to the curb if on a
street or within one foot of the alley line if the main is located in the
alley. They shall be installed at an approximate depth of seven feet below the
established grade and shall be left in an accurate vertical position when
backfilling is completed. They shall also have an extension riser connected
directly to the curb stop on any new construction and replacement construction.
(2001 Code, § 3.20)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
   
52.01   Discharges generally
   
52.02   Separate sewers
   
52.03   Building sewer requirements
   
52.04   Sewer connection required
   
52.05   Discharge of surface water
   
52.06   Non-acceptable wastes
   
52.07   Interceptors
   
52.08   Control manhole required
   
52.09   Right of entry
   
52.10   Unauthorized activity
   
52.11   Required information
   
52.12   Individual sewage treatment systems prohibited
§ 52.01 DISCHARGES GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall discharge any sewage or other polluted waters, except
where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 3.30)
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, STORM WATER, SURFACE WATER and SUMP
PUMP WATER shall mean any and all waters, other than domestic waters
originating in the city water system or its wells, susceptible to use for
domestic purposes.
(2001 Code, § 3.35)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.02 SEPARATE SEWERS.
   A separate and independent sewer shall be provided for every building
connected to the sewer system; except that, the Council may waive this
requirement where it finds that a separate sewer for a building is impractical.
(2001 Code, § 3.30)
§ 52.03 BUILDING SEWER REQUIREMENTS.
   Building sewer construction shall meet the requirements of the state’s
Building and Plumbing Codes. The applicant for the building sewer permit shall
notify the city representative when the building sewer and connection is ready
for inspection and connection to the public sewer. No backfill shall be placed
until the work has been inspected and approved by the city.
(2001 Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.04 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   When property is located within 500 feet of any municipal water and sanitary
sewer mains, the owner of any dwelling or commercial establishment on the
property shall install suitable toilet facilities. They shall connect them with
the sanitary sewer and water mains in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter within 90 days after the date of mailing or delivering official notice
to do so. The city’s Clerk-Treasurer on order of the Council shall give the
notice to the owner or occupant in writing. When a cesspool or septic tank has
been in use, prior to the construction of a sanitary sewer and water mains
located within 500 feet of the property on which the facility is located, the
owner of the building making use of the cesspool or septic tank shall comply
with this chapter when the cesspool or septic tank is in need of repair,
reconstruction or pumping or within one year of the completion of the sanitary
sewer, whichever occurs first.
(2001 Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.05 DISCHARGE OF SURFACE WATER.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water, surface
water, ground water, cooling water or unpolluted industrial process waters into
any sanitary sewer. No rainspout or other form of surface drainage and no
foundation drainage shall be connected with any sanitary sewer.
(2001 Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.06 NON-ACCEPTABLE WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or permit to be discharged into any sewer any of
the following wastes:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature in excess of 180°F. Any water
or waste having a five-day biological oxygen demand exceeding 1,000 parts per
million by weight as averaged during any 12-month period;
   (B)   Any water or waste having a five-day biological oxygen demand
exceeding 1,000 parts per million by weight as averaged during any 12-month
period;
   (C)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
   (D)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
   (E)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, manure, grit, brick, cement, onyx, carbide or
other matter that may interfere with the proper operation of the sewers or
sewage treatment plant;
   (F)   Any water or waste having a pH lower than five and one-half or higher
than nine or having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works;
   (G)   Any water or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance, whether
or not listed as a hazardous waste by Minn. Rules part 7045.0135 in sufficient
quantities to constitute a hazard to humans or animals, injure or interfere
with sewage treatment or create any hazard in the receiving waters of the
sewage treatment plant;
   (H)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance; and/or
   (I)   Any water or waste containing fats, gas, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F.
(2001 Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.07 INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when they are necessary
for the proper handling of any liquid waste containing grease in excessive
amounts or any flammable waste, sand or other harmful ingredients; but the
interceptors shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling
units. Interceptors shall be located so as to be easily accessible for cleaning
and inspection.
(2001 Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.08 CONTROL MANHOLE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The owner of any property served by a building sewer carrying
industrial waste shall install a suitable control manhole in the building sewer
to facilitate observation and sampling of the waste.
   (B)   (1)   The owner in accordance with plans approved by the City Engineer
shall construct the manhole.
      (2)   The owner shall maintain the manhole so as to be safe and
accessible at all times.
(2001 Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.09 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Authorized employees of the city, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall at reasonable times be permitted to enter upon all
properties connected to the city sanitary sewer system for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing.
(2001 Code, § 3.30)
§ 52.10 UNAUTHORIZED ACTIVITY.
   No person, except an authorized city employee, shall uncover, alter or
disturb any public sanitary or storm sewer without city permission.
(2001 Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.11 REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   The owner, occupant or person in charge of any premises shall supply the
city with the information as it may reasonably require relating to use of
water, use of sewer or sewer rates.
(2001 Code, § 3.30)
§ 52.12 INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall install or construct an individual sewage treatment system
within the city.
   (A)   Discharge prohibited. Except as otherwise expressly authorized in this
chapter, no ponds, water fountains, water from any roof, surface, ground water
sump pump, swimming pool or other natural precipitation shall be discharged
into the sanitary sewer system. Dwellings and other buildings and structures
which require, because of infiltration of water into basements, crawl spaces
and the like, a sump pump discharge system shall have a permanently installed
discharge line which shall not at any time discharge water into a sanitary
sewer system. A permanent installation shall be one which provides for year
round discharge capability to either the outside of the dwelling, building or
structure, or is connected to a storm sewer or discharge through the curb and
gutter to the street. Within the home or business, the sump pump discharge pipe
shall consist of a rigid discharge line, without valves or quick connections
that would alter the path of discharge. However, if the line is directly
connected to a storm sewer line or catch basin, a check valve and an air gap
are required.
   (B)   Inspections. Property owners shall allow an employee of the city or a
designated representative of the city to inspect the buildings to confirm that
there is no sump pump or other prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer
system. The city may periodically re-inspect any building or premises to
determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Removal of connections. Any property owner who previously made any
connection or installation in violation of this chapter shall immediately
remove the connection or correct such an installation. If not removed or
corrected within 30 calendar days after notice of the violation has been
delivered personally or by certified mail to the owner, the city may impose a
surcharge in the amount provided herein. Such a surcharge may also be imposed
upon any property owner, after a 30-calendar day notice has been delivered, and
if the owner refuses to allow his or her property to be inspected. The owner of
a building or premises found to be not in conformance with this chapter during
periodic re-inspections may be subjected to a surcharge as provided herein.
   (D)   Foundation drain tile.
      (1)   Future homes and businesses. Ground water from foundation drain
tile for future homes and businesses shall not discharge to the sanitary sewer
system. The ground water shall flow through the tile and drain to a sump basket
and shall then be pumped and discharged to the exterior of the structure with
the use of a sump pump.
      (2)   Existing homes and businesses. Some existing homes and businesses
may have been constructed with ground water from foundation drain tile
discharging to the sanitary sewer. If the connection of the foundation drain
tile to the sanitary sewer pipe is on the exterior of the home, the connection
will be considered grandfathered and disconnection will not be required. If the
connection of the foundation drain tile to the sanitary sewer pipe system is on
the interior of the home or business, the connection is considered “not in
compliance” and the owner is required to correct the improper connection. Any
connection considered “not in compliance” shall abide by the sections contained
in this chapter.
   (E)   Surcharge.
      (1)   A surcharge of $100 per month is hereby imposed on every sewer bill
to property owners for the following conditions:
         (a)   Systems are not in compliance with this chapter; and
         (b)   Property owner’s refusal of property inspection.
      (2)   The surcharge may continue until the condition is resolved.
   (F)   Assessing unpaid balance. If the surcharge is not received by the
city, the city reserves the right to assess the unpaid balance against the
property.
(2001 Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 53: SOLID WASTE
Section
   
53.01   Service established
   
53.02   Containers required
   
53.03   Placement of containers
   
53.04   Accumulations
§ 53.01 SERVICE ESTABLISHED.
   The city shall provide solid waste collection and recycling by contracting
with a provider of the service. All households within the city shall dispose of
collectable refuse and recyclables by use of the service. Households in the
city shall not transport or dispose of refuse by any other means. Households
may make other arrangements to dispose of recyclables as long as said
arrangements comply with all federal, state and local laws and ordinances.
(2001 Code, § 3.40) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.02 CONTAINERS REQUIRED.
   Every household shall be required to use sufficient containers for the
storage of all refuse and recyclables accumulated between collections. The
containers may be provided by the customer or the collection service, but, in
either case, the containers must conform to the standards established by the
solid waste collection service. In case of additional refuse, residents can
purchase sticker(s) for an additional fee. The fee for the stickers will be set
by a fee schedule by the city.
(2001 Code, § 3.40)
§ 53.03 PLACEMENT OF CONTAINERS.
   If the solid waste collection service makes the collection from the alley,
the containers shall be placed at the alley line. If the solid waste collection
service makes the collection from the street, the containers shall be placed at
the curb line. Containers shall not be placed in the public right-of-way prior
to 6:00 p.m. the night before collection. All containers shall be removed from
the right-of-way before 9:00 p.m. the day of collection.
(2001 Code, § 3.40) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.04 ACCUMULATIONS.
   No person shall fail to dispose of, in a sanitary manner, refuse accumulated
upon the property the person owns or occupies.
(2001 Code, § 3.40) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   VEHICLE OPERATION AND PARKING
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: VEHICLE OPERATION AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Incorporation of state traffic regulations
   
70.02   Trunk highways
   
70.03   Powers and duties; delegation
   
70.04   Police duties
Traffic Regulations
   
70.15   Controlled intersections
   
70.16   Speed limits
   
70.17   Turning
   
70.18   Exhibition driving
   
70.19   Weight restrictions
Parking Rules
   
70.30   General parking regulations
   
70.31   Parallel parking
   
70.32   Angle parking
   
70.33   Parking on street without curb
   
70.34   Continuous parking
   
70.35   Emergency parking
   
70.36   Temporary no parking
   
70.37   Truck parking
   
70.38   Recreational vehicle and trailer parking
   
70.39   Moving and impounding vehicles
   
70.40   Parking privileges for physically disabled
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 INCORPORATION OF STATE TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to time, are
hereby incorporated in and made a part of this traffic code as if set out in
full.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 70.02 TRUNK HIGHWAYS.
   No restriction on the use of a trunk highway shall be valid until the
consent of the Commissioner of Transportation is obtained.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 70.03 POWERS AND DUTIES; DELEGATION.
   Any power or duty granted to the City Council in this traffic code may be
delegated to any person or persons as deemed necessary and/or convenient for
the enforcement of the provisions of this traffic code.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 70.04 POLICE DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this traffic code and
the state traffic laws. Police officers are authorized to direct all traffic
within the city, either in person or by means of a visible or audible signal,
in conformity with this traffic code and the state traffic laws. During a fire
or other emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, police
officers may direct traffic as conditions require notwithstanding the
provisions of this traffic code and the state traffic laws. Members of the Fire
Department may direct or assist police officers in directing traffic at the
scene of a fire or in the immediate vicinity.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014)
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
§ 70.15 CONTROLLED INTERSECTIONS.
   (A)   Stop signs.
      (1)   The City Council may, by resolution, establish any intersection to
be a stop intersection.
      (2)   The City Council shall cause to be erected appropriate signage at
any intersection so designated.
   (B)   Yield signs. The City Council may, by resolution, establish any
intersection to be a yield intersection. The City Council shall cause to be
erected appropriate signage at any intersection so designated.
   (C)   Temporary stop signs. The City Council may, from time to time,
establish temporary stop signs, when the signs are required to preserve the
free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 70.16 SPEED LIMITS.
   (A)   Residential areas. The City Council may, by resolution, declare any
segment of roadway to be a residential roadway if the predominant use of the
property adjacent to the roadway is residential in nature. The speed limit in
any residential area shall be 25 mph. The City Council shall cause to be
erected signs designating the speed limit and the beginning and end of the
residential roadway on which the speed limit applies.
   (B)   School zones. The City Council may, by resolution, establish school
speed limit zones to preserve safety and prevent accidents. This decision will
be based upon an engineering and traffic investigation as prescribed by the
Commissioner of Transportation. The speed zone may be established for either a
public or private school. The city’s Maintenance Department shall cause signs
to be erected at the beginning of the speed limit zones. No person shall drive
a vehicle within the zones designated by this division (B) in excess of 20 mph
when children are present, going to or leaving school, during opening and
closing hours or during school recess periods.
   (C)   Alleyways. The City Council, by resolution, may set the speed limit
within any alleyway. Unless otherwise set by the City Council, the speed limit
in all alleyways shall be ten mph.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.17 TURNING.
   (A)   Restrictions on turns. The City Council, by resolution, may, whenever
necessary to preserve a free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents, designate
any intersection as one where the turning of vehicles to the left or to the
right, or both, is to be restricted at all times or during specified hours. The
City Council shall cause appropriate signs to be erected at the designated
intersections. No person shall turn a vehicle at any intersection contrary to
the direction of the signs.
   (B)   U-turns. No person shall turn a vehicle so as to reverse its direction
at any intersection where traffic is regulated by a traffic-control signal.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.18 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel or in a manner simulating a race. Unreasonable squealing or screeching
sounds emitted by tires or the unreasonable throwing of sand or gravel by the
tires is prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.19 WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   The City Council may prohibit the operation of vehicles upon any street, or
may impose weight restrictions on vehicles to be operated on the streets
whenever the street, by reason of deterioration, rain, snow or other climate
conditions, may be seriously damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles on
the street is prohibited or the permissible weights thereof reduced. Upon the
prohibition, the City Council shall cause to be erected and maintained signs
plainly indicating the prohibition or restriction at each end of the portion of
the street affected. It is unlawful for any person to operate a vehicle on any
posted street in violation of the prohibition or restriction.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
PARKING RULES
§ 70.30 GENERAL PARKING REGULATIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person, as driver or operator of a vehicle or as the
registered owner of a vehicle, to park, stop or leave standing, or cause, allow
or permit to be parked, stopped or left standing, whether knowingly or
unknowingly, any vehicle in any of the following places:
   (A)   Upon a public sidewalk;
   (B)   Upon any public street within four feet of the radius point, taper
point or the point on a curb or curb line at which the curb or curb line
becomes part of a public or private curb cut of a driveway or between two
points with respect to a given curb cut or driveway;
   (C)   Upon any public street within any intersection;
   (D)   Upon any public street within ten feet of any fire hydrant;
   (E)   Upon any public street on any crosswalk;
   (F)   Upon any public street within twenty (10) feet of a crosswalk at any
intersection or within 30 feet of any intersection at which there is no
crosswalk;
   (G)   Upon any public street within 15 feet upon the approach to any
flashing beacon, stop light or traffic-control signal located at the side of
the roadway;
   (H)   Upon any public street within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any
fire station and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire
station within 75 feet of the entrance when the restriction is properly signed;
   (I)   Upon any public street alongside or opposite any street excavation or
obstruction when the stopping, standing or parking may obstruct traffic;
   (J)   Upon any public street on the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or
parked upon the street;
   (K)   Upon any public street at any place where official signs prohibit
parking, standing or stopping;
   (L)   On any part of front yard, rear yard and side yard, except on a hard
surfaced parking space;
   (M)   Parking in city parks and recreation areas will be limited to
designated areas; the areas will be clearly marked. Parking is prohibited in
any other area of the parks and recreational areas. No person will be allowed
to park in any area designated for handicapped purposes other than those who
have been issued a handicapped parking permit or license as issued by the
state. No vehicle will be allowed to park in any area designated as authorized
vehicles only besides city vehicles; and/or
   (N)   Any other areas so designated by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.31 PARALLEL PARKING.
   Except in places where angle parking is specifically designated by curb
marking or sign posting, it is unlawful for any person upon a public street, as
driver or operator of a vehicle, or as the registered owner of a vehicle, to
park, stop or leave standing, or cause, allow or permit to be parked, stopped
or left standing whether knowingly or unknowingly, any such vehicle, except as
follows: upon a two-way roadway having an adjacent curb, the vehicle shall be
parked or stopped in such a manner that the wheels thereof on the right or
passenger side are parallel with, and within 12 inches of, the right-hand curb,
and in the event painted parking stall markings exist on the curb or the
street, the vehicle shall be parked or stopped within the markings.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.32 ANGLE PARKING.
   In any place upon a public street or in a public parking facility where
angle parking is designated by curb marking or signposting, it is unlawful for
any person, as driver or operator of a vehicle, or as the registered owner of a
vehicle, to park, stop or leave standing, or cause, allow or permit to be
parked, stopped or left standing, whether knowingly or unknowingly, any such
vehicle, except with the front wheel thereof touching the curb within any
parking stall lines painted on the curb or street.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.33 PARKING ON STREET WITHOUT CURB.
   It is unlawful for any person, as driver or operator of a vehicle, or as the
registered owner of a vehicle, to park, stop or leave standing, or cause, allow
or permit to be parked, stopped or left standing, whether knowingly or
unknowingly, any vehicle upon any street not having a curb unless the vehicle
is stopped or parked parallel with the wheels thereof on the right or passenger
side on the extreme right portion of the pavement or the improved or main-
traveled portion of the street.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.34 CONTINUOUS PARKING.
   It is unlawful for any person, as driver or operator of a vehicle, or as the
registered owner of a vehicle, to park, stop or leave standing, or cause, allow
or permit to be parked, stopped or left standing, whether knowingly or
unknowingly, any such vehicle in a given place upon any public street for a
period in excess of 24 continuous hours. Law Enforcement vehicles and other
emergency vehicles are excluded from the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014; Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-12-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.35 EMERGENCY PARKING.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the term EMERGENCY shall
mean any condition upon any public street, including the presence of snow,
freezing rain, sleet, ice or other phenomenon, which condition creates or is
likely to create any hazardous road condition or impedes or is likely to impede
the free movement of traffic, when such conditions have been declared by city
staff.
   (B)   Declaration. Upon the existence of an emergency as defined herein,
city staff declares that an emergency exists, whereupon such person shall post
upon the city's official website and notify any radio stations having
facilities within or near the city and request that such media cooperate with
the city in giving notice to such emergency to the community. The emergency
regulations set forth below shall become effective one hour after such notice
has been given by the city to such news media.
   (C)   Snow accumulation. Following the accumulation of three inches or more
of snow fall in the city, it shall be unlawful for the driver or owner of any
motor vehicle, trailer or implement to park or leave standing such a vehicle,
trailer, or implement on any street or alley within the corporate limits of the
city. Parking may not be resumed on any sheets or alleys until snow removal has
been completed curb to curb on said streets.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014; Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-12-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
 
§ 70.36 TEMPORARY NO PARKING.
   (A)   When parking is prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, as
driver or operator of a vehicle, or as the registered owner of a vehicle, to
park, stop or leave standing, whether knowingly or unknowingly, any vehicle
upon any public street where temporary restricted parking signs have been
posted or notice placed upon such vehicle to be moved. Vehicles left in the
areas which have been posted as temporary restricted parking for more than 12
hours after the posting may be towed.
   (B)   Unlawful acts. It shall be unlawful for any person, as driver or
operator of a vehicle, or as the registered owner of a vehicle, to park, stop
or leave standing, or cause, allow or permit to be parked, stopped or left
standing, whether knowingly or unknowingly, any vehicle upon any public street
where “No Parking” signs have been erected pursuant to division (A) above.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014; Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-12-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.37 TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   Detached trailer. It is unlawful for any person, as driver or operator
of a semi-trailer, or as the registered owner of a semi-trailer, to park, stop
or leave standing, or cause, allow or permit to be parked, stopped or left
standing, whether knowingly or unknowingly, a semi-trailer, not attached to a
truck or truck tractor upon any public street, municipally-owned parking lot or
parking facility, or under special circumstances, permission to park, stop or
leave standing a semi-trailer may be granted by verbal or written consent of
the Police Chief or his or her designated assistants.
   (B)   Residential district. It is unlawful for any person, as driver or
operator of a semi-trailer or as the registered owner of a semi-trailer, to
park, stop or leave standing, or cause, allow or permit to be parked, stopped
or left standing, whether knowingly or unknowingly, any such semi-trailer,
whether or not attached to a truck tractor, within any area zoned as a
residential district, except for the purpose of and while engaged in the
loading or unloading of the semi-trailer.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.38 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE AND TRAILER PARKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park any recreational vehicle or trailer on any city
street or lot owned by the city for any period of time extending past 48 hours.
For the purposes of this section, RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND TRAILERS is defined
as follows: travel trailers, including those that telescope or fold down;
chassis-mounted campers; house cars; motor homes; tent trailers; slip-in
campers; non-motorized trailers intended and generally used for transporting
boats; utility trailers; snowmobiles; all-terrain vehicles; boats; watercraft;
mobile homes; storage trailers; construction trailers; or similar trailers.
   (B)   Any person parking or so locating any such trailer on a continuous
basis for longer than 48 hours shall be entitled to one warning about the
parking from the City Council or Police Department. If, after an additional 48
hours, the trailer has not been moved, then the person parking the trailer that
has received a previous warning shall be guilty of an infraction and punished
in accordance with this code of ordinances. In addition, to any fine or
citation the recreational vehicle or trailer will be subject to being towed and
impounded at the owner’s expense.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.39 MOVING AND IMPOUNDING VEHICLES.
   (A)   Moving unattended vehicle. In the event any police or enforcement
officer finds any unattended vehicle standing upon any street, alley or
municipally-owned parking lot, ramp or facility in violation of any provision
of this traffic code, the officer is hereby authorized to provide for the
removal of the vehicle to a position in compliance with the law, and in the
event any charge shall be placed against the vehicle for the cost of the
removal or subsequent storage, the charge shall be paid by the party claiming
the vehicle prior to the removal of the vehicle from the position.
   (B)   Notice.
      (1)   The person taking custody of the impounded vehicle from the city
shall give notice of the taking within ten days. The notice shall:
         (a)   Set forth the date and place of the taking, the year, make,
model and serial number of the abandoned motor vehicle if the information can
be reasonably obtained and the place where the vehicle is being held;
         (b)   Inform the owner and any lienholders of their right to reclaim
the vehicle under division (C) below; and
         (c)   State that failure of the owner or lienholders to exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle and contents shall be deemed a waiver by them of
all right, title and interest in the vehicle and contents and a consent to the
sale of the vehicle and contents at a public auction pursuant to division (D)
below.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by mail to the registered owner, if any,
of the abandoned motor vehicle and to all readily identifiable lienholders of
record. If it is impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity
and address of the registered owner and all lienholders, the notice shall be
published once in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the
motor vehicle was abandoned. Published notices may be grouped together for
convenience and economy.
   (C)   Right to reclaim. The owner or any lienholder of an abandoned motor
vehicle shall have a right to reclaim the vehicle from the unit of government
taking it into custody upon payment of all towing and storage charges resulting
from taking the vehicle into custody within 30 days after the date of the
notice required by division (B) above. Nothing herein shall be construed to
impair any lien of a garage keeper under the laws of the state or the right of
a lienholder to foreclose. For the purpose of this section, GARAGE KEEPER is an
operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor vehicle
storage facility or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair
or maintenance of motor vehicles.
   (D)   Auction or sale.
      (1)   An abandoned motor vehicle and contents taken into custody and not
reclaimed under division (C) above may be sold at a public auction or sale; it
shall be sold to the highest bidder following reasonable published notice of
the auction or sale. The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form
prescribed by the Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title
to dispose of the vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to
register the vehicle and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all
liens and claims of ownership. Before such a vehicle is issued a new
certificate of title, it must be acquired and it must receive a motor vehicle
safety check.
      (2)   Abandoned motor vehicles not sold pursuant to division (D)(1) above
shall be disposed of.
      (3)   The proceeds of a sale of an abandoned motor vehicle under this
division (D) shall be used by the city to reimburse itself as well as pay any
person performing services for the city in connection with for the cost of
towing, preserving and storing the vehicle and all administrative costs, to
include notice and publication costs incurred in handling the vehicle pursuant
to this section. Any remainder from the proceeds of the sale shall be held for
the owner of the vehicle or entitled lienholder for 90 days. If the funds are
not claimed in that time period, they shall become the property of the city.
The city shall not be liable for interest on any sums of money claimed during
the 90-day period.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.40 PARKING PRIVILEGES FOR PHYSICALLY DISABLED.
   Any physically disabled person, as defined by M.S. § 169.345, as it may be
amended from time to time, who displays prominently upon the automobile parked
by the person or under the direction and for the use of the person, the
distinguishing certificate or insignia for which M.S. § 169.345, as it may be
amended from time to time, provides, shall be entitled to courtesy in the
parking of the automobile and shall be relieved of any liability with respect
to the parking regulations set forth in this traffic code, except the
regulations as set forth in §
70.30 of this chapter.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Snowmobiles
   
71.01   Purpose
   
71.02   Scope of application
   
71.03   Private property
   
71.04   Sidewalks and boulevards
   
71.05   Public property
   
71.06   Public street
   
71.07   Hours of operation
   
71.08   Prohibitions
   
71.09   Intersections
ATVs, Mini-Trucks and Utility Task Vehicles
   
71.20   Definitions
   
71.21   State laws incorporated
   
71.22   Authorized use and provisions
Golf Carts
   
71.35   Authority
   
71.36   Permit required
   
71.37   Application
   
71.38   Permit requirements; duties of Clerk-Treasurer
   
71.39   Other requirements
Cross-reference:
   Land Use Plan, see
Ch. 150
   Streets and Public Rights-of-Way, see
Ch. 152
   Subdivisions and Redevelopment, see
Ch. 153
   Traffic Code general penalty, see §
10.99
   Vehicle Operation and Parking, see
Ch. 70
SNOWMOBILES
§ 71.01 PURPOSE.
   Due to the unique characteristics of snowmobiles, and how they are operated,
including the fact that the treads of a snowmobile may cause damage to city
streets and sidewalks, the City Council has deemed that the following shall
apply to their use in the city.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 71.02 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   The provisions of M.S. § 84.87, as it may be amended from time to time,
relating to snowmobiles are adopted and made a part of this subchapter as if
set out in full.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 71.03 PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall operate a snowmobile upon any public sidewalk in the
city, nor upon or across any private property without the express consent of
the owner of the property.
   (B)   A snowmobile operator may cross a public sidewalk at an angle of
approximately 90 degrees to the direction of the sidewalk for the purpose of
entering onto a street or highway on which snowmobile traffic is allowed.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 SIDEWALKS AND BOULEVARDS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile on a sidewalk or
boulevard, except in crossing the sidewalk or boulevard.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile upon any publicly-
owned property, including public school grounds, park property, public
playgrounds and public recreational areas, except upon trails so designated for
the use, without having first obtained the consent or permission to so operate
from the public agency or agent having control of the property.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 PUBLIC STREET.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile upon a public street
in any portion where the operation is prohibited by state law or in any portion
other than the right half of the roadway, as close as practical to the right
street edge.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile in the city between the hours of 12:00
midnight and 7:00 a.m., except in the case of emergencies. No person shall
operate a snowmobile in a public park in the city between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.08 PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile in the city at a speed in excess of 15
mph.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 INTERSECTIONS.
   It is unlawful for the operator of a snowmobile to enter any intersection
without yielding the right-of-way to any other vehicles or pedestrians at the
intersection or so close to the intersection as to constitute an immediate
hazard.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
ATVs, MINI-TRUCKS AND UTILITY TASK VEHICLES
§ 71.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. As per M.S. § 84.92, as it may be amended from
time to time, a motorized flotation-tired vehicle of not less than three low-
pressure tires, but not more than six tires, that is limited in engine
displacement of less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and includes a Class 1 all-
terrain vehicle and Class 2 all-terrain vehicle.
   MINI-TRUCK. As per M.S. § 169.011, subd. 40a, as it may be amended from time
to time, is defined as a motor vehicle that has four wheels; is propelled by an
electric motor with a rated power of 7,500 watts or less or an internal
combustion engine with a piston displacement capacity of 660 cubic centimeters
or less; has a total dry weight of 900 to 2,200 pounds; contains an enclosed
cabin and a seat for the vehicle operator; commonly resembles a pickup truck or
van, including a cargo area or bed located at the rear of the vehicle; and was
not originally manufactured to meet federal motor vehicle safety standards
required of motor vehicles in 49 C.F.R. §§ 571.101 to 571.404, and successor
requirements. A MINI-TRUCK does not include a neighborhood electric vehicle or
a medium-speed electric vehicle; or a motor vehicle that meets or exceeds the
regulations in 49 C.F.R. § 571.500, and successor requirements.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of an all-terrain
vehicle, mini-truck, utility task vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of an
all-terrain vehicle, mini-truck, utility task vehicle.
   UTILITY TASK VEHICLE or VEHICLE. A side-by-side, four-wheel drive, off-road
vehicle that has four wheels, is propelled by an internal combustion engine
with a piston displacement capacity of 1,200 cubic centimeters or less, and has
a total dry weight of 1,800, but less than 2,600 pounds.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014; Ord. 7, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 71.21 STATE LAWS INCORPORATED.
   All provisions of M.S. Ch. 169 and §§ 84.92 through 84.928, as they may be
amended from time to time, being the chapter regulating the use of motor
vehicles and all provisions of the city code regulating vehicular traffic,
shall apply to the operation of all-terrain vehicles, mini-trucks and utility
task vehicles upon public property of the city, except for those relating to
required equipment, those which, by their nature, have no application, and
except those which may be amended or altered by rules and regulations by the
Council.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014; Ord. 7, passed 6-1-2015)
§ 71.22 AUTHORIZED USE AND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Operation on roadways. All-terrain vehicles, mini-trucks and utility
task vehicles may be operated on designated roadways in the city in strict
compliance with this traffic code. It is unlawful to operate these specific
vehicles upon roadways as follows:
      (1)   At a speed in excess of ten mph;
      (2)   Other than in single file on a roadway;
      (3)   Carelessly or recklessly; and
      (4)   In a manner that damages any public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Private property. It is unlawful to operate an ATV, mini-truck or
utility task vehicle on private property without the permission or consent of
the owner or occupant.
   (C)   Minimum age of operator. It is unlawful for any person under 16 years
of age to operate an ATV, mini-truck or utility task vehicle on any public
street in the city unless he or she has, in his or her immediate possession, a
valid driver’s license or possesses a valid vehicle safety certificate and is
accompanied by a person 18 years old or older on another ATV/off-highway
vehicle.
   (D)   Sidewalks and boulevards. It is unlawful to operate an ATV, mini-truck
or utility task vehicle on a sidewalk or boulevard; except that, an operator
may cross a sidewalk, boulevard or other right-of-way to obtain access to a
street or alley if the crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees
to the direction of the sidewalk, boulevard or right-of-way to all pedestrian
or vehicular traffic which constitutes an immediate hazard.
   (E)   Hours of operation. It is unlawful to operate an ATV, mini-truck or
utility task vehicle within the city limits between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and
7:00 a.m., except when entering or leaving the city.
   (F)   Equipment. It is unlawful to operate an ATV, mini-truck or utility
task vehicle unless it is equipped with the following:
      (1)   At least one clear headlight attached to the front, with sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead during the hours of darkness and under normal atmospheric conditions,
when the vehicle is operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to
one-half hour before sunrise, or at times of reduced visibility. The headlamp
shall be so aimed that glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an
oncoming vehicle operator. The vehicle shall also be equipped with at least one
red tail lamp having a minimum candlepower or sufficient intensity to exhibit a
red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during hours
of darkness and under normal atmospheric conditions;
      (2)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached to the vehicles and
which reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for
operation. No person shall use a muffler cutout, by-pass, straight pipe or
similar device on a vehicle. The apparatus shall not be audible for a distance
more than 500 feet from the place or places where such devices or apparatus
will be located; and
      (3)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
vehicle under any condition of operation.
   (G)   Operation of vehicles by minors. Vehicle operators who are minors and
who wish to operate vehicles within the city limits are subject to the
following conditions in addition to those required of adult operators.
      (1)   No minor under 16 years of age shall be permitted to operate a
vehicle in the city.
      (2)   All minors at least 16 years of age but less than 18 years of age
may operate a vehicle subject to the restrictions set forth above if the minor
possesses a valid driver’s license and wears a safety helmet approved by the
Commissioner of Public Safety.
      (3)   Effective 1-1-2006, anyone born after 7-1-1987 and is 16 or older
must complete an independent study course component of vehicle safety training
before operating a vehicle on public lands.
   (H)   Prohibitions on owner. It is unlawful for the owner of an ATV, mini-
truck or utility task vehicle ATV/off-highway vehicle to permit it to be
operated contrary to this traffic code.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014; Ord. 7, passed 6-1-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 71.35 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 169.045, as it may be amended
from time to time, use of motorized golf carts are permitted within the city
under the conditions set forth below.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 71.36 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Motorized golf carts are hereby authorized to be used on the streets of the
city; the golf carts may be used so long as the owner and operator have
obtained a permit, as provided in this traffic code, and the motorized golf
cart is operated in compliance with all applicable state and local regulations.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 71.37 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Anyone desiring a permit to operate a motorized golf cart pursuant to
this subchapter shall submit an application on the form authorized by the City
Council.
   (B)   The application must include the following:
      (1)   Date;
      (2)   Applicant name and address;
      (3)   Insurance company and policy number; and
      (4)   Signature of applicant.
   (C)   The application may also require additional information as determined
by the City Council.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 71.38 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; DUTIES OF CLERK-TREASURER.
   (A)   The permit fee shall be a one-time fee. The permit fee shall include a
vehicle permit and operator permit(s). When applying for a permit, the
applicant shall be allowed to list eligible vehicle operators on the
application. A per vehicle permit fee, fee for the replacement of a lost
permit, and a fee to add an operator to the permit shall be established by the
City Council and set forth annually. The permit fee shall be non-refundable.
   (B)   The Clerk-Treasurer or her or his designee of the city shall be the
issuing officer for permits under this section.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014)
§ 71.39 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In order to operate a motorized golf cart on a city street, the golf
cart shall display a slow-moving vehicle emblem as provided for in M.S. §
169.522, as it may be amended from time to time. The motorized golf cart must
be equipped with a rearview mirror.
   (B)   The operator of a golf cart is required to have insurance for the use
of the cart and provide proof of that insurance if requested by law
enforcement.
   (C)   (1)   Golf carts can be operated on roadways, other than what is
stated herein, from the hours of sunrise to sunset, unless equipped with
original equipment headlights, taillights and rear-facing brake lights.
      (2)   They are not to be operated in inclement weather, or any time when
visibility is impaired by weather, smoke fog or other conditions, or at any
time when there is insufficient visibility to clearly see persons and vehicles
on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
   (D)   Golf carts cannot be operated in excess speeds of ten mph.
   (E)   The operator of a motorized golf cart shall have, in his or her
possession, the permit any time the motorized golf cart is being operated on a
city street. The Council shall set the fee for the permit annually by
resolution.
   (F)   A permit may be revoked at any time if there is evidence that the
permittee cannot safely operate a motorized golf cart, the permittee has lost
his or her driving privileges in the state or the permittee has been convicted
of two or more violations of this subchapter in a period of one year.
   (G)   A person aggrieved by the revocation of their license may appeal such
action to the City Council. The applicant must file a written notice of the
appeal to the Police Department. This notice of appeal must be made within five
days of the notice of revocation. The City Council will then determine, at its
next scheduled hearing, if an action was warranted. All parties will be
notified by mail of the time of the hearing.
   (H)   All operators of motorized golf carts must have a valid driver’s
license.
(Ord. 7, passed 5-5-2014; Ord. 2018-01, passed 3-12-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
92.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Dogs and cats
   
90.03   Non-domestic animals
   
90.04   Farm animals
   
90.05   Impounding
   
90.06   Kennels
   
90.07   Nuisances
   
90.08   Seizure of animals
   
90.09   Animals presenting a danger to health and safety of city
   
90.10   Diseased animals
   
90.11   Dangerous and potentially dangerous dogs
   
90.12   Dangerous animals (excluding dogs)
   
90.13   Basic care
   
90.14   Breeding moratorium
   
90.15   Enforcing officer
   
90.16   Pound
   
90.17   Interference with officers
   
90.18   Fighting animals
   
90.19   Feeding stray cats and dogs
DOGS AND CATS
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including all fowl and
poultry) or other member commonly accepted as a part of the animal kingdom.
Animals shall be classified as follows:
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, domestic animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMALS. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, farm
animals shall include members of the equine family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (ducks, geese),
swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, ratitae (ostriches
and emus), farm raised cervidae (caribous and mule deer), llamas and alpacas
and other animals associated with a farm, ranch, or stable.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, non-domestic animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, tigers, cougars, bobcats, leopards and jaguars, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated house cats.
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingoes, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs.
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog,
unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a domesticated house pet.
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk
(whether or not descented), raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those
members otherwise defined or commonly accepted as domesticated pets.
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constricting, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles and alligators.
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above but which
can be reasonably defined by the terms of this section, including but not
limited to bears, deer, monkeys and game fish.
   AT LARGE. Off the premises of the owner and not under the custody and
control of the owner or other person, either by leash, cord, chain, or
otherwise restrained or confined.
    CAT. Both the male and female of the felidae species commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
   DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets, and other domesticated animals of a dog kind.
   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, association or corporation owning,
keeping, or harboring an animal.
   RELEASE PERMIT. A permit issued by the Animal Control Officer or other
person in charge of the pound for the release of any animal that has been taken
to the pound. A release permit may be obtained upon payment of a fee to the
City Clerk in accordance with the regular license requirement if the animal is
unlicensed, payment of a release fee, and any maintenance costs incurred in
capturing and impounding the animal. The release fee shall be as established in
§
34.01, as that section may be amended from time to time.
§ 90.02 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Running at large prohibited. It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat
of any person who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A
person, who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a
responsible person or accompanied by and under the control and direction of a
responsible person, so as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash,
shall be permitted in streets or on public land unless the city has posted an
area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats Prohibited.”
   (B)   License required.
      (1)   All dogs over the age of six months kept, harbored, or maintained
by their owners in the city, shall be licensed and registered with the city.
Dog licenses shall be issued by the City Clerk upon payment of the license fee
as established by §
34.01, as that section may be amended from time to time. The owner shall state,
at the time application is made for the license and upon forms provided, his or
her name and address and the name, breed, color, and sex of each dog owned or
kept by him or her. No license shall be granted for a dog that has not been
vaccinated against distemper and rabies, as evidenced by a certificate by a
veterinarian qualified to practice in the state in which the dog is vaccinated.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of each owner of a dog subject to this section
to pay to the City Clerk the license fee established in §
34.01, as that section may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Upon payment of the license fee as established by §
34.01, as that section may be amended from time to time, the Clerk shall issue
to the owner a license certificate and metallic tag for each dog licensed. The
tag shall have stamped on it the year for which it is issued and the number
corresponding with the number on the certificate. Every owner shall be required
to provide each dog with a collar to which the license tag must be affixed, and
shall see that the collar and tag are constantly worn. In case a dog tag is
lost or destroyed, a duplicate shall be issued by the City Clerk. A charge
shall be made for each duplicate tag in an amount established in §
34.01, as that section may be amended from time to time. Dog tags shall not be
transferable from one dog to another and no refunds shall be made on any dog
license fee or tag because of death of a dog or the owner's leaving the city
before the expiration of the license period.
      (4)   The licensing provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to
dogs whose owners are nonresidents temporarily within the city, nor to dogs
brought into the city for the purpose of participating in any dog show. If the
animal owned is a service animal which is capable of being properly identified
as from a recognized school for seeing eye, hearing ear, service or guide
animals, and the owner is a blind or deaf person, or a person with physical or
sensory disabilities, then no license shall be required.
      (5)   The funds received by the City Clerk from all dog licenses and
metallic tags fees as established by §
34.01, as that section may be amended from time to time, shall first be used to
defray any costs incidental to the enforcement of this chapter; including, but
not restricted to, the costs of licenses, metallic tags, and impounding and
maintenance of the dogs.
   (C)   Cats. Cats shall be included as controlled by this division insofar as
running-at-large, pickup, impounding, boarding, and proof of anti-rabies
vaccine is concerned. All other provisions of this section shall also apply to
cats unless otherwise provided.
   (D)   Vaccination.
      (1)   All dogs and cats kept harbored, maintained, or transported within
the city shall be vaccinated at least once every three years by a licensed
veterinarian for:
         (a)   Rabies - with a live modified vaccine; and
         (b)   Distemper.
      (2)   A certificate of vaccination must be kept on which is stated the
date of vaccination, owner's name and address, the animal's name (if
applicable), sex, description and weight, the type of vaccine, and the
veterinarian's signature. Upon demand made by the City Clerk, the Animal
Control Officer or a police officer, the owner shall present for examination
the required certificate(s) of vaccination for the animal(s). In cases where
certificates are not presented, the owner or keeper of the animal(s) shall have
seven days in which to present the certificate(s) to the City Clerk or officer.
Failure to do so shall be deemed a violation of this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.03 NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS.
   Except as provided in M.S.§ 346.155, as it may be amended from time to time,
it shall be illegal for any person to own, possess, harbor, or offer for sale,
any non-domestic animal within the city. Any owner of a non-domestic animal at
the time of adoption of this code shall have 30 days in which to remove the
animal from the city after which time the city may impound the animal as
provided for in this section. An exception shall be made to this prohibition
for animals specifically trained for and actually providing assistance to the
handicapped or disabled, and for those animals brought into the city as part of
an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research laboratory, or a
licensed show or exhibition.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 FARM ANIMALS.
   Farm animals shall only be kept in an agricultural district of the city, or
on a residential lot of at least ten acres in size provided that no animal
shelter shall be within 300 feet of an adjoining piece of property. An
exception shall be made to this section for those animals brought into the city
as part of an operating zoo, veterinarian clinic, scientific research
laboratory, or a licensed show or exhibition.
§ 90.05 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Running at large. Any unlicensed animal running at large is hereby
declared a public nuisance. Any Animal Control Officer or police officer may
impound any dog or other animal found unlicensed or any animal found running at
large and shall give notice of the impounding to the owner of the dog or other
animal, if known. The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter
the property of the owner of an animal found running at large or the owner of
an unlicensed animal unless the officer has first obtained the permission of
the owner to do so or has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal. In case the owner is unknown, the
officer shall post notice at the city office that if the dog or other animal is
not claimed within the time specified in division (C) of this section, it will
be sold or otherwise disposed of. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
it shall be unlawful to kill, destroy, or otherwise cause injury to any animal,
including dogs and cats running at large.
   (B)   Biting animals. Any animal that has not been inoculated by a live
modified rabies vaccine and which has bitten any person, wherein the skin has
been punctured or the services of a doctor are required, shall be confined in
the city pound for a period of not less than ten days, at the expense of the
owner. The animal may be released at the end of the time if healthy and free
from symptoms of rabies, and by the payment of all costs by the owner. However,
if the owner of the animal shall elect immediately upon receipt of notice of
need for the confinement by the officer to voluntarily and immediately confine
the animal for the required period of time in a veterinary hospital of the
owner's choosing, not outside of the county in which this city is located, and
provide immediate proof of confinement in the manner as may be required, the
owner may do so. If, however, the animal has been inoculated with a live
modified rabies vaccine and the owner has proof of the vaccination by a
certificate from a licensed veterinarian, the owner may confine the dog or
other animal to the owner's property.
   (C)   Reclaiming. For the purposes of this section regular business day
means a day during which the establishment having custody of the animal is open
to the public at least four consecutive hours between 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
All animals conveyed to the pound shall be kept, with humane treatment and
sufficient food and water for their comfort, at least five regular business
days, unless the animal is a dangerous animal as defined under §
90.11 in which case it shall be kept for seven regular business days or the
times specified in §
90.11, and except if the animal is a cruelly-treated animal in which case it
shall be kept for ten regular business days, unless sooner reclaimed by their
owners or keepers as provided by this section. In case the owner or keeper
shall desire to reclaim the animal from the pound, the following shall be
required, unless otherwise provided for in this code or established from time
to time by resolution of the City Council:
      (1)   Payment of the release fee and receipt of a release permit as
established by §
34.01, as that section may be amended from time to time.
      (2)    Payment of maintenance costs, as provided by the pound, per day or
any part of day while animal is in the pound; and
      (3)   If a dog is unlicensed, payment of a regular license fee as
established by §
34.01, as that section may be amended from time to time, and valid certificate
of vaccination for rabies and distemper shots is required.
   (D)   Unclaimed animals. At the expiration of the times established in
division (C) of this section, if the animal has not been reclaimed in
accordance with the provisions of this section, the officer appointed to
enforce this section may dispose of the unclaimed animal in a manner permitted
by law. Any money collected under this section shall be payable to the City
Clerk.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.06 KENNELS.
   (A)   Definition of kennel. The keeping of three or more dogs on the same
premises, whether owned by the same person or not and for whatever purpose
kept, shall constitute a “kennel”; except that a fresh litter of pups may be
kept for a period of three months before that keeping shall be deemed to be a
“kennel.”
   (B)   Kennel as a nuisance. Because the keeping of three or more dogs on the
same premises is subject to great abuse, causing discomfort to persons in the
area by way of smell, noise, hazard, and general aesthetic depreciation, the
keeping of three or more dogs on the premises is hereby declared to be a
nuisance and no person shall keep or maintain a kennel within the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. Habitual barking shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner's or
caretaker's premises.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person's dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others or on public property.
   (D)   Warrant required. The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall
not enter the property of the owner of an animal described in this section
unless the officer has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or
has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided
for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal.
§ 90.08 SEIZURE OF ANIMALS.
   Any police officer or Animal Control Officer may enter upon private property
and seize any animal with the permission of the owner of the property, if that
person is also the owner of the animal, provided that the following exist:
   (A)   There is an identified complainant other than the police officer or
Animal Control Officer making a contemporaneous complaint about the animal;
   (B)   The officer reasonably believes that the animal meets either the
barking dog criteria set out in §
90.07(A); the criteria for cruelty set out in §
90.13; or the criteria for an at large animal set out in §
90.02(A);
   (C)   The officer can demonstrate that there has been at least one previous
complaint of a barking dog; inhumane treatment of the animal; or that the
animal was at large at this address on a prior date;
   (D)   The officer has made a reasonable attempt to contact the owner of the
animal and the property to be entered and those attempts have either failed or
have been ignored;
   (E)   The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter the
property of the owner of an animal described in this section unless the officer
has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or has obtained a
warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal. If the officer has the permission of
the owner, a property manager, landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized person
to enter the property or has obtained a pass key from a property manager,
landlord, innkeeper, or other authorized person to have that key shall not be
considered unauthorized entry, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal
need not be obtained; and
   (F)   Written notice of the seizure is left in a conspicuous place if
personal contact with the owner of the animal is not possible.
§ 90.09 ANIMALS PRESENTING A DANGER TO HEALTH AND SAFETY OF CITY.
   If, in the reasonable belief of any person or the Animal Control Officer or
police officer, an animal presents an immediate danger to the health and safety
of any person, or the animal is threatening imminent harm to any person, or the
animal is in the process of attacking any person, the person or officer may
destroy the animal in a proper and humane manner whether or not the animal is
on the property of its owner. Otherwise, the person or officer may apprehend
the animal and deliver it to the pound for confinement under §
90.05. If the animal is destroyed, the owner or keeper of the animal destroyed
shall be liable to the city for the cost of maintaining and disposing of the
animal, plus the costs of any veterinarian examination. If the animal is found
not to be a danger to the health and safety of the city, it may be released to
the owner or keeper in accordance with §
90.05(C).
§ 90.10 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Running at large. No person shall keep or allow to be kept on his or
her premises, or on premises occupied by them, nor permit to run at large in
the city, any animal which is diseased so as to be a danger to the health and
safety of the city, even though the animal be properly licensed under this
section, and a warrant to search for and seize the animal is not required.
   (B)   Confinement. Any animal reasonably suspected of being diseased and
presenting a threat to the health and safety of the public, may be apprehended
and confined in the pound by any person, the Animal Control Officer or a police
officer. The officer shall have a qualified veterinarian examine the animal. If
the animal is found to be diseased in a manner so as to be a danger to the
health and safety of the city, the officer shall cause the animal to be
painlessly killed and shall properly dispose of the remains. The owner or
keeper of the animal killed under this section shall be liable to the city for
the cost of maintaining and disposing of the animal, plus the costs of any
veterinarian examinations.
   (C)   Release. If the animal, upon examination, is not found to be diseased
the animal shall be released to the owner or keeper free of charge.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.11 DANGEROUS AND POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
the regulatory and procedural provisions of M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.565 (commonly
referred to as the “Dangerous Dog Regulations”), are adopted by reference.
   (B)   Definitions. Definitions in this section shall have the following
meanings:
      (1)   DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has when unprovoked, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Has killed a domestic animal when unprovoked while off the
owner's property;
         (c)   Has attacked one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (d)   Has been found to be potentially dangerous and after the owner
has notice of the same, the dog aggressively bites, attacks or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   DOG.  Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly
accepted as domesticated household pets.
      (3)   GREAT BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which creates a high probability
of death, or which causes serious permanent disfigurement, or which causes a
permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member
or organ or other serious bodily harm.
      (4)   OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, corporation, organization,
department, or association owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, having an
interest in, or having care, custody or control of a dog.
      (5)   MAINTENANCE COSTS. Any costs incurred as a result of seizing an
animal for impoundment, including, but not limited to, the capturing,
impounding, keeping, treating, examining, securing, confining, feeding,
destroying, boarding or maintaining seized animals, whether these services are
provided by the city or the pound.
      (6)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has when unprovoked, inflicted a bite on a human or domestic
animal on public or private property;
         (b)   Has when unprovoked, chased or approached a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks or any public or private
property, other than the owner's property, in an apparent attitude of attack;
or
         (c)   Has a known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (7)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the dog from escaping
and to provide protection for the dog from the elements. A proper enclosure
does not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other
structure that would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the dog from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow
the egress of the dog in any manner without human assistance. A pen or kennel
shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   A minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support post shall be one and one-fourth inch or larger steel pipe
buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided,
the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and openings in the wire shall not exceed two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches. The gate shall be self-closing and self-locking. The gate shall be
locked at all times when the dog is in the pen or kennel.
      (8)   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Bodily injury that involves a temporary
but substantial disfigurement, or that causes a temporary but substantial loss
or impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ or that causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
      (9)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the dog is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (C)   Declaration of dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
      (1)   A police officer, community service officer, animal control officer
or other authorized city employee may declare a dog to be dangerous or
potentially dangerous when the officer has probable cause to believe that a dog
is dangerous or potentially dangerous. The following factors will be considered
in determining a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog:
         (a)   Whether any injury or damage to a person by the dog was caused
while the dog was protecting or defending a person or the dog's offspring
within the immediate vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault.
         (b)   The size and strength of the dog, including jaw strength, and
the animal's propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals.
         (c)   Whether the dog has wounds, scarring, is observed in a fight, or
has other indications that the dog has been or will be used, trained or
encouraged to fight with another animal or whose owner is in possession of any
training apparatus, paraphernalia or drugs used to prepare such dogs to fight
with other animals.
      (2)   Beginning six months after a dog is declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous, an owner may request annually that the city review the
designation. The owner must provide evidence that the dog's behavior has
changed due to the dog's age, neutering, environment, completion of obedience
training or other factors. If enough evidence is provided, the city may rescind
the designation.
      (3)   Exceptions.
         (a)   The provisions of this section do not apply to dogs used by law
enforcement.
         (b)   Dogs may not be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous if
the threat, injury, or danger was sustained by a person who was:
            1.   Committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner of the dog;
            2.   Provoking, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog, or who
can be shown to have a history of repeatedly provoking, tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the dog; or
            3.   Committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (D)   License required. The owner must annually license dangerous and
potentially dangerous dogs with the city and must license a newly declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog within 14 days after notice that a dog
has been declared dangerous or potentially dangerous. Regardless of any appeal
that may be requested, the owner must comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52 (a) and (c) regarding proper enclosures and notification to the city
upon transfer or death of the dog, until and unless a hearing officer or court
of law reverses the declaration.
      (1)   Process for dangerous dogs. The city will issue a license to the
owner of a dangerous dog if the owner presents sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   Written proof that there is a surety bond by a surety company
authorized to conduct business in Minnesota in the sum of at least $300,000,
payable to any person injured by a dangerous dog, or receipt of a copy of a
policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance company authorized to do
business in Minnesota in the amount of at least $300,000, insuring the owner
for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog. Such surety bond or
insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the bond or policy will
be made unless the city is notified in writing by the surety company or the
insurance company at least ten days prior to such cancellation;
         (c)   The owner has paid the annual license fee for dangerous dogs as
established in §
34.01, as that section may be amended from time to time.
         (d)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification number
of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the microchip is not
implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the owner's expense;
and
         (e)   The owner provides proof that the dog has been sterilized. If
the owner does not sterilize the dog within 30 days, the city may seize the dog
and sterilize it at the owner's expense.
      (2)   Process for potentially dangerous dogs. The city will issue a
license to the owner of a potentially dangerous dog if the owner presents
sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   The owner has paid the annual license fee;
         (c)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
potentially dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and
identification number of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the
microchip is not implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the
owner's expense.
      (3)   Inspection. A pre-license inspection of the premises to insure
compliance with the city code is required. If the city issues a license to the
owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, the city shall be allowed at
any reasonable time to inspect the dog, the proper enclosure and all places
where the animal is kept.
      (4)   Warning symbol. The owner of a dangerous dog licensed under this
section must post a sign with the uniform dangerous dog warning symbol on the
property in order to inform children that there is a dangerous dog on the
property. The sign will be provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (5)   Tags. A dangerous dog licensed under this section must wear a
standardized, easily identifiable tag at all times that contains the uniform
dangerous dog symbol, identifying the dog as dangerous. The tag shall be
provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (6)   License fee. The city will charge the owner an annual license fee
for a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog as established in the Ordinance to
Establish Fees and Charges as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Properly restrained in proper enclosure or outside of proper
enclosure. While on the owner's property, an owner of a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog must keep it in a proper enclosure. Inside a
residential home, there must be a secured area maintained where the dog will
stay when persons other than family members are present. If the dog is outside
the proper enclosure, the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial
chain or leash no longer than four feet and under the physical restraint of an
adult. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will prevent the dog from
biting any person or animal but that will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration.
   (F)   Notification requirements to city.
      (1)   Relocation or death. The owner of a dog that has been declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous must notify the City Clerk in writing if the
dog is to be relocated from its current address or if the dog has died. The
notification must be given in writing within 30 days of the relocation or
death. The notification must include the current owner's name and address, and
the new owner's name and the relocation address. If the relocation address is
outside of the city, the city may notify the local law enforcement agency of
the transfer of the dog into its jurisdiction.
      (2)   Renter's obligations. A person who owns or possess a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog and who will rent property from another where the dog
will reside must disclose to the property owner prior to entering the lease
agreement and at the time of any lease renewal periods that the person owns or
possesses a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog that will reside at the
property. A dog owner, who is currently renting property, must notify the
property owner within 14 days of city notification if the owned dog is newly
declared as dangerous or potentially dangerous and the owner keeps the dog on
the property.
      (3)   Transfer of ownership into the city. No dog that has been
previously determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous by another
jurisdiction shall be kept, owned or harbored in the city unless the dog's
owner complies with the requirements of this section prior to bringing the dog
into the city. Dogs in violation of this division are subject to impoundment
and destruction.
   (G)   Seizure. Animal control may immediately seize any dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog if:
      (1)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous, the dog is not validly licensed and no
appeal has been filed;
      (2)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or surety coverage as
required or such required insurance is cancelled;
      (3)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure;
      (4)   The dog is outside the proper enclosure and not under proper
restraint, as required by §
90.11(E);
      (5)   After 30 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the dog is not sterilized, as required by §
90.11(D)(1)(e);
      (6)   The dog's microchip has been removed.
   (H)   Reclamation. A dog seized under §
90.11(G) may be reclaimed by the owner of the dog upon payment of maintenance
costs, and presenting proof to animal control that the requirements of this
section have been met. A dog not reclaimed under this division within seven
days may be disposed of and the owner will be liable to the city for
maintenance costs. A person claiming an interest in a seized dog may prevent
disposition of the dog by posting a security in an amount sufficient to provide
for the dog's maintenance costs. The security must be posted with the city
within seven days of the seizure inclusive of the date seized.
   (I)   Subsequent offenses: seizure. If a person has been convicted of
violating a provision of this section, and the person is charged with a
subsequent violation relating to the same dog, the dog may be seized. If the
owner is convicted of the crime for which the dog was seized, the court may
order that the dog be destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner pay
the maintenance costs. If the owner is not convicted and the dog is not
reclaimed by the owner within seven days after the owner has been notified that
the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be disposed of in manner permitted by
law.
   (J)   Notice, hearings.
      (1)   Notice. After a dog has been declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous or has been seized for destruction, the city shall give notice by
delivering or mailing it to the owner of the dog, or by posting a copy of it at
the place where the dog is kept, or by delivering it to a person residing on
the property, and telephoning, if possible. The notice shall include:
         (a)   A description of the seized dog; the authority for and purpose
of the declaration and seizure; the time, place, and circumstances under which
the dog was declared; and the telephone number and contact person where the dog
is kept;
         (b)   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the declaration and that failure to do so within 14 days of the date
of the notice will terminate the owner's right to a hearing;
         (c)   A statement that if an appeal request is made within 14 days of
the notice, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52, paragraphs (a) and (c) regarding proper enclosures and notification to
the city upon transfer or death of the dog, until such time as the hearing
officer issues an opinion;
         (d)   A statement that if the hearing officer affirms the dangerous
dog declaration, the owner will have 14 days from receipt of that decision to
comply with all other requirements of M.S. § 347.51, 347.515, and 347.52;
         (e)   A form to request a hearing; and
         (f)   A statement that if the dog has been seized, all maintenance
costs of the care, keeping, and disposition of the dog pending the outcome of
the hearing are the responsibility of the owner, unless a court or hearing
officer finds that the seizure or impoundment was not reasonably justified by
law.
      (2)   Right to hearing.
         (a)   After a dog has been declared dangerous, potentially dangerous
or has been seized for
destruction, the owner may appeal in writing to the city within 14 days after
notice of the declaration or seizure. Failure to do so within 14 days of the
date of the notice will terminate the owner's right to a hearing. The owner
must pay a $100 fee for an appeal hearing.
         (b)   The appeal hearing will be held within 14 days of the request.
The hearing officer must be an impartial employee of the city or an impartial
person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
         (c)   If the declaration or destruction is upheld by the hearing
officer, actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000, as well as
all maintenance costs, will be the responsibility of the dog's owner. The
hearing officer shall issue a decision on the matter within ten days after the
hearing. The decision shall be delivered to the dog's owner by hand delivery or
registered mail as soon as practical and a copy shall be provided to the city.
The decision of the hearing officer is final.
   (K)   Destruction of certain dogs. The Police Chief and/or hearing officer
are authorized to order the destruction or other disposition of any dog, after
proper notice is given pursuant to §
90.11(J) and upon a finding that:
      (1)   The dog has habitually destroyed property or habitually trespassed
in a damaging manner on property of persons other than the owner;
      (2)   The dog has been declared dangerous, the owner's right to appeal
hereunder has been exhausted or expired, and the owner has failed to comply
with the provisions of this section;
      (3)   It is determined that the dog is infected with rabies;
      (4)   The dog inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on
public or private property without provocation;
      (5)   The dog inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private
property without provocation;
      (6)   The dog bit multiple human victims on public or private property in
the same attack without provocation;
      (7)   The dog bit a human on public or private property without
provocation in an attack where more than one dog participated in the attack; or
      (8)   The dog poses a danger to the public's health, safety or welfare.
In determining whether the dog poses a danger to the public's health, safety or
welfare, the following factors may be considered:
         (a)   The dog weighs more than 20 pounds;
         (b)   The strength of the dog, including jaw strength;
         (c)   The dog's tolerance for pain;
         (d)   The dog's tendency to refuse to terminate an attack;
         (e)   The dog's propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals;
         (f)   The dog's potential for unpredictable behavior;
         (g)   The dog's aggressiveness;
         (h)   The likelihood that a bite by the dog will result in serious
injury.
   (L)   Concealing of dogs. No person may harbor, hide or conceal a dog that
the city has the authority to seize or that has been ordered into custody for
destruction or other proper disposition.
   (M)   Dog ownership prohibited.
      (1)   Except as provided below, a person shall not own a dog if the
person has been:
         (a)   Convicted of a third or subsequent violation of §
90.11(D), (E) or (F) or similar ordinance in another jurisdiction, or M.S. §§
347.51, 347.515 or 347.52;
         (b)   Convicted of 2nd degree manslaughter due to negligent or
intentional use of a dog under M.S. § 609.205 (4); or
         (c)   Convicted of gross misdemeanor harm caused by a dog under M.S. §
609.226, Subd. 1.
      (2)   Any person who owns a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog and is
found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this section or had owned
a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog but never achieved compliance with
this section may be prohibited from ownership or custody of another dog for a
period of five years after the original declaration. Any dog found to be in
violation, may be impounded until due process is completed, pursuant to §
90.11(J).
      (3)   If any member of a household is prohibited from owning a dog in §
90.11(M)(1) or (2), unless specifically approved with or without restrictions
by the city, no person in the household is permitted to own a dog.
   (N)   Dog ownership prohibition review. Beginning three years after a
conviction under §
90.11(M)(1) that prohibits a person from owning a dog, and annually thereafter,
the person may request in writing to the Police Chief that the city review the
prohibition. The city may consider such facts as the seriousness of the
violation or violations that led to the prohibition, any criminal convictions,
or other facts that the city deems appropriate. The city may rescind the
prohibition entirely or rescind it with limitations. The city also may
establish conditions a person must meet before the prohibition is rescinded,
including, but not limited to, successfully completing dog training or dog
handling courses. If the city rescinds a person's prohibition and the person
subsequently fails to comply with any limitations imposed by the city or the
person is convicted of any animal violation involving unprovoked bites or dog
attacks, the city may permanently prohibit the person from owning a dog in this
state.
   (O)   Penalties.
      (1)   Unless stated otherwise, any person who violates a provision of
this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person who is convicted of a second or subsequent violation of
any provision of §
90.11(D), (E), or (F) is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.
      (3)   Any person who violates §
90.11(M), whether an owner or household member, is guilty of a gross
misdemeanor.
§ 90.12 DANGEROUS ANIMALS (EXCLUDING DOGS).
   (A)   Attack by an animal. It shall be unlawful for any person's animal to
inflict or attempt to inflict bodily injury to any person or other animal
whether or not the owner is present. This section shall not apply to dogs as
regulated by §
90.11.
   (B)   Destruction of dangerous animal. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to order the destruction of dangerous animals in accordance with
the terms established by this chapter.
   (C)   Definitions.    For the purpose of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has:
         (a)   Caused bodily injury or disfigurement to any person on public or
private property;
         (b)   Engaged in any attack on any person under circumstances which
would indicate danger to personal safety;
         (c)   Exhibited unusually aggressive behavior, such as an attack on
another animal;
         (d)   Bitten one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (e)   Been found to be potentially dangerous and/or the owner has
personal knowledge of the same, the animal aggressively bites, attacks, or
endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (2)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL.  An animal which has:
         (a)   Bitten a human or a domestic animal on public or private
property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chased or approached a person upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public property in an apparent attitude of attack; or
         (c)   Has engaged in unprovoked attacks causing injury or otherwise
threatening the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (3)   PROPER ENCLOSURE.  Securely confined indoors or in a securely
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the animal from escaping and to
provide protection for the animal from the elements. A proper enclosure does
not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure
that would allow the animal to exit of its own volition, or any house or
structure in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the
only barriers which prevent the animal from exiting. The enclosure shall not
allow the egress of the animal in any manner without human assistance. A pen or
kennel shall meet the following minimum specifications:
         (a)   Have a minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet.
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support posts shall be 1¼-inch or larger steel pipe buried in the
ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided, the sidewalls
shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground.
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and shall also have no openings in the wire greater than two inches.
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and shall also have no openings in the wire
greater than two inches. The gate shall be equipped with a device capable of
being locked and shall be locked at all times when the animal is in the pen or
kennel.
      (4)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the animal is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed.
   (D)   Designation as potentially dangerous animal. The Animal Control
Officer shall designate any animal as a potentially dangerous animal upon
receiving evidence that the potentially dangerous animal has, when unprovoked,
then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic
animal as stated in division (C)(2). When an animal is declared potentially
dangerous, the Animal Control Officer shall cause one owner of the potentially
dangerous animal to be notified in writing that the animal is potentially
dangerous.
   (E)   Evidence justifying designation. The Animal Control Officer shall have
the authority to designate any animal as a dangerous animal upon receiving
evidence of the following:
      (1)   That the animal has, when unprovoked, bitten, attacked, or
threatened the safety of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (C)
(1).
      (2)   That the animal has been declared potentially dangerous and the
animal has then bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or
domestic animal as stated in division (C)(1).
   (F)   Authority to order destruction. The Animal Control Officer, upon
finding that an animal is dangerous hereunder, is authorized to order, as part
of the disposition of the case, that the animal be destroyed based on a written
order containing one or more of the following findings of fact:
      (1)   The animal is dangerous as demonstrated by a vicious attack, an
unprovoked attack, an attack without warning or multiple attacks; or
      (2)   The owner of the animal has demonstrated an inability or
unwillingness to control the animal in order to prevent injury to persons or
other animals.
   (G)   Procedure. The Animal Control Officer, after having determined that an
animal is dangerous, may proceed in the following manner: The Animal Control
Officer shall cause one owner of the animal to be notified in writing or in
person that the animal is dangerous and may order the animal seized or make
orders as deemed proper. This owner shall be notified as to dates, times,
places and parties bitten, and shall be given 14 days to appeal this order by
requesting a hearing before the City Council for a review of this
determination.
      (1)   If no appeal is filed, the Animal Control Officer shall obtain an
order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the destruction of the animal from
a court of competent jurisdiction, unless the animal is already in custody or
the owner consents to the seizure and destruction of the animal.
      (2)   If an owner requests a hearing for determination as to the
dangerous nature of the animal, the hearing shall be held before the City
Council, which shall set a date for hearing not more than three weeks after
demand for the hearing. The records of the Animal Control or City Clerk’s
office shall be admissible for consideration by the Animal Control Officer
without further foundation. After considering all evidence pertaining to the
temperament of the animal, the City Council shall make an order as it deems
proper. The City Council may order that the Animal Control Officer take the
animal into custody for destruction, if the animal is not currently in custody.
If the animal is ordered into custody for destruction, the owner shall
immediately make the animal available to the Animal Control Officer. If the
owner does not immediately make the animal available, the Animal Control
Officer shall obtain an order or warrant authorizing the seizure and the
destruction of the animal from a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (3)   No person shall harbor an animal after it has been found by to be
dangerous and ordered into custody for destruction.
   (H)   Stopping an attack. If any police officer or Animal Control Officer is
witness to an attack by an animal upon a person or another animal, the officer
may take whatever means the officer deems appropriate to bring the attack to an
end and prevent further injury to the victim.
   (I)   Notification of new address. The owner of an animal which has been
identified as dangerous or potentially dangerous shall notify the Animal
Control Officer in writing if the animal is to be relocated from its current
address or given or sold to another person. The notification shall be given in
writing at least 14 days prior to the relocation or transfer of ownership. The
notification shall include the current owner's name and address, the relocation
address, and the name of the new owner, if any.
   (J)   Dangerous animal requirements.
      (1)   Requirements. If the City Council does not order the destruction of
an animal that has been declared dangerous, the City Council may, as an
alternative, order any or all of the following:
         (a)   That the owner provide and maintain a proper enclosure for the
dangerous animal as specified in §
90.12(C)(3);
         (b)   Post the front and the rear of the premises with clearly visible
warning signs, including a warning symbol to inform children, that there is a
dangerous animal on the property;
         (c)   Provide and show proof annually of public liability insurance in
the minimum amount of $300,000;
         (d)   If the animal is outside the proper enclosure, the animal must
be muzzled (if physically possible depending on the type of animal) and
restrained by a substantial chain or leash (not to exceed six feet in length)
and under the physical restraint of a person 16 years of age or older. The
muzzle must be of a design as to prevent the animal from biting any person or
animal, but will not cause injury to the animal or interfere with its vision or
respiration;
         (e)   The animal shall have a microchip implant as provided by M.S. §
347.515, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (f)   All animals deemed dangerous by the Animal Control Officer shall
be registered with the county in which this city is located within 14 days
after the date the animal was so deemed and provide satisfactory proof thereof
to the Animal Control Officer.
         (g)   If the animal is a cat or ferret, it must be up to date with
rabies vaccination.
      (2)   Seizure. As authorized by M.S. § 347.54, as it may be amended from
time to time, the Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize any dangerous
animal if the owner does not meet each of the above requirements within 14 days
after the date notice is sent to the owner that the animal is dangerous.
Seizure may be appealed to district court by serving a summons and petition
upon the city and filing it with the district court.
      (3)   Reclaiming animals. A dangerous animal seized under §
90.12(J)(2), may be reclaimed by the owner of the animal upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees and presenting proof to animal control that each
of the requirements under §
90.12(J)(1), is fulfilled. An animal not reclaimed under this section within 14
days may be disposed of as provided under §
90.12(F), and the owner is liable to the city for costs incurred in confining
and impounding the animal.
   (D)   Subsequent offenses. If an owner of an animal has subsequently
violated the provisions under §
90.12 with the same animal, the animal must be seized by animal control. The
owner may request a hearing as defined in §
90.12(G). If the owner is found to have violated the provisions for which the
animal was seized, the Animal Control Officer shall order the animal destroyed
in a proper and humane manner and the owner shall pay the costs of confining
the animal. If the person is found not to have violated the provisions for
which the animal was seized, the owner may reclaim the animal under the
provisions of §
90.12(J)(3). If the animal is not yet reclaimed by the owner within 14 days
after the date the owner is notified that the animal may be reclaimed, the
animal may be disposed of as provided under §
90.12(F) and the owner is liable to the animal control for the costs incurred
in confining, impounding and disposing of the animal.
§ 90.13 BASIC CARE.
   (A)   All animals shall receive from their owners or keepers kind treatment,
housing in the winter, and sufficient food and water for their comfort. Any
person not treating their pet in a humane manner will be subject to the
penalties provided in this section.
   (B)   Dogs and cats. Dogs and cats must be provided the following basic
care.
      (1)   Food. Dogs and cats must be provided with food of sufficient
quantity and quality to allow for normal growth or the maintenance of body
weight. Feed standards shall be those recommended by the National Research
Council.
      (2)   Water. Dogs and cats must be provided with clean, potable water in
sufficient quantity to satisfy the animal's needs or supplied by free choice.
Snow or ice is not an adequate water source.
      (3)   Transportation and shipment. When dogs or cats are transported in
crates or containers, the crates or containers must be constructed of
nonabrasive wire or a smooth, durable material suitable for the animals. Crates
and containers must be clean, adequately ventilated, contain sufficient space
to allow the animals to turn around, and provide maximum safety and protection
to the animals. Exercise for 20 to 30 minutes and water must be provided at
least once every eight hours. Food must be provided at least once every 24
hours or more often, if necessary, to maintain the health and condition of the
animals.
      (4)   Shelter size. A confinement area must provide sufficient space to
allow each animal to turn about freely and to easily stand, sit, and lie in a
normal position. Each confined animal must be provided a minimum square footage
of floor space as measured from the tip of its nose to the base of its tail,
plus 25%, expressed in square feet. The formula for computing minimum square
footage is: (length of animal plus 25%) times (length of animal plus 25%),
divided by 144. A shaded area must be provided sufficient to protect the animal
from the direct rays of the sun at all times during the months of May to
October.
      (5)   Exercise. All dogs and cats must be provided the opportunity for
periodic exercise, either through free choice or through a forced work program,
unless exercise is restricted by a licensed veterinarian.
      (6)   Group housing and breeding. Animals housed together must be kept in
compatible groups. Animals must not be bred so often as to endanger their
health.
      (7)   Temperature. Confinement areas must be maintained at a temperature
suitable for the animal involved.
      (8)   Ventilation. An indoor confinement area must be ventilated. Drafts,
odors, and moisture condensation must be minimized. Auxiliary ventilation, such
as exhaust fans, vents, and air conditioning, must be used when the ambient
temperature rises to a level that may endanger the health of the animal.
      (9)   Lighting. An indoor confinement area must have at least eight hours
of illumination sufficient to permit routine inspection and cleaning.
      (10)   Confinement and exercise area surfaces. Where applicable, the
interior surfaces of confinement and exercise areas, including crates or
containers, must be constructed and maintained so that they are substantially
impervious to moisture and may be readily cleaned. They must protect the animal
from injury and be kept in good repair.
      (11)   Drainage. Where applicable, a suitable method must be used to
rapidly eliminate excess fluids from confinement areas.
      (12)   Sanitation. Food and water receptacles must be accessible to each
animal and located so as to minimize contamination by excreta. Feeding and
water receptacles must be kept clean. Disposable food receptacles must be
discarded when soiled. Measures must be taken to protect animals from being
contaminated with water, wastes, and harmful chemicals. Wastes must be disposed
of properly. Where applicable, flushing methods and a disinfectant must be used
periodically. Bedding, if used, must be kept clean and dry. Outdoor enclosures
must be kept clean and base material replaced as necessary.
   (C)   Birds, rodent other animals. Basic care provided to pet and companion
animal birds, rodents and other shall be consistent with M.S. § 346.40, §
346.41 and § 346.42, as those statutes may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Dogs and cats in motor vehicles.
      (1)   Unattended dogs or cats. A person may not leave a dog or a cat
unattended in a standing or parked motor vehicle in a manner that endangers the
dog's or cat's health or safety.
      (2)   Removal of dogs or cats. A peace officer, as defined in M.S. §
626.84, as it may be amended from time to time, a humane agent, a dog warden,
or a volunteer or professional member of a fire or rescue department of the
city may use reasonable force to enter a motor vehicle and remove a dog or cat
which has been left in the vehicle in violation of (D)(1). A person removing a
dog or a cat under this division shall use reasonable means to contact the
owner of the dog or cat to arrange for its return home. If the person is unable
to contact the owner, the person may take the dog or cat to an animal shelter.
   (E)   Dog houses. A person in charge or control of any dog which is kept
outdoors or in an unheated enclosure shall provide the dog with shelter and
bedding as prescribed in this section as a minimum.
      (1)   Building specifications. The shelter shall include a moisture proof
and windproof structure of suitable size to accommodate the dog and allow
retention of body heat. It shall be made of durable material with a solid,
moisture proof floor or a floor raised at least two inches from the ground.
Between November 1 and March 31 the structure must have a windbreak at the
entrance. The structure shall be provided with a sufficient quantity of
suitable bedding material consisting of hay, straw, cedar shavings, blankets,
or the equivalent, to provide insulation and protection against cold and
dampness and promote retention of body heat.
      (2)   Shade. Shade from the direct rays of the sun, during the months of
May to October shall be provided.
      (3)   Farm dogs. In lieu of the requirements of (E)(1) and (E)(2), a dog
kept on a farm may be provided with access to a barn with a sufficient quantity
of loose hay or bedding to protect against cold and dampness.
§ 90.14 BREEDING MORATORIUM.
   Every female dog or female cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
other enclosure in a manner that it cannot come in contact with another dog or
cat except for planned breeding. Upon capture and failure to reclaim the
animal, every dog or cat shall be neutered or spayed prior to being transferred
to a new owner.
§ 90.15 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Council is hereby authorized to appoint an animal control officer(s) to
enforce the provisions of this section. In the officer's duty of enforcing the
provisions of this section, he or she may from time to time, with the consent
of the City Council, designate assistants.
§ 90.16 POUND.
   Every year the Council shall designate an official pound to which animals
found in violation of this chapter shall be taken for safe treatment, and if
necessary, for destruction.
§ 90.17 INTERFERENCE WITH OFFICERS.
   No person shall in any manner molest, hinder, or interfere with any person
authorized by the City Council to capture dogs, cats or other animals and
convey them to the pound while engaged in that operation. Nor shall any
unauthorized person break open the pound, or attempt to do so, or take or
attempt to take from any agent any animal taken up by him or her in compliance
with this chapter, or in any other manner to interfere with or hinder the
officer in the discharge of his or her duties under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.18 FIGHTING ANIMALS.
   (A)   The provisions of M.S. § 343.31, as it may be amended from time to
time, are adopted herein by reference.
   (B)   No person shall:
      (1)   Promote, engage in, or be employed in the activity of cockfighting,
dogfighting, or violent pitting of one pet or companion animal as defined in
M.S. § 346.36, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time, against another
of the same or a different kind;
      (2)   Receive money for the admission of a person to a place used, or
about to be used, for that activity;
      (3)   Willfully permit a person to enter or use for that activity
premises of which the permitter is the owner, agent, or occupant; or
      (4)   Use, train, or possess a dog or other animal for the purpose of
participating in, engaging in, or promoting that activity.
      (5)   Purchase a ticket of admission or otherwise gain admission to the
activity of cockfighting, dogfighting, or violent pitting of one pet or
companion animal against another of the same or a different kind.
§ 90.19 FEEDING STRAY CATS AND DOGS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      (1)   FEED or FEEDING means the placing of dog or cat food, or similar
food products or consumable materials attractive to dogs and cats, which may
result in dogs and cats congregating thereon on a regular basis, placed on the
ground, in an obviously intended feeder, or in a feeder at a height accessible
to cats and dogs.
      (2)   STRAY means an unlicensed domestic or feral dog or cat running at
large and unaccompanied or controlled by an owner.
   (B)   Policy and purpose. High populations of stray dogs and cats pose a
hazard to human health and safety, as such animals provide a fruitful breeding
ground for infectious disease, including but not limited to rabies and
distemper, and may otherwise bite or attack humans and domestic animals. In
addition, food provided for stray animals is often attractive to wild animals
such as raccoons and rodents and may create nuisance conditions such as a rat
harborage or other wild animal infestation.
   (C)   No person shall feed or allow the feeding of any stray cat or dog
within the city.
   (D)   Exceptions. Veterinarians and persons who, acting within the scope of
their employment with any governmental entity non-profit, or humane society has
custody of or manages stray dogs and cats are not subject to the prohibitions
of this section.
CHAPTER 91: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
91.01   Glass containers prohibited
§ 91.01 GLASS CONTAINERS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in a park, reservation, playground,
recreation center, beach or any other area in the city, owned or used by the
city and devoted to recreation, to bring or possess any glass beverage
container into any park or recreation area.
(2001 Code, § 8.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Public nuisance prohibition
   
92.021   Public nuisances affecting health
   
92.022   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
92.023   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.024   Noise violations
   
92.025   Nuisance parking and storage
   
92.026   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
92.027   Duties of city officers
   
92.028   Abatement procedure
   
92.029   Recovery of cost
   
92.03   Buildings as public nuisances
   
92.04   Noxious weeds and trees
   
92.05   Abandoned or junked vehicles
   
92.06   Solid waste prohibited
   
92.07   Dogs
   
92.08   Firearms and explosives
   
92.09   Debris in streets
Burning Regulations
   
92.20   Purpose
   
92.21   Definitions
   
92.22   Authorized burning
   
92.23   Prohibited materials
   
92.24   Burning leaves permitted
   
92.25   Nuisance fires
   
92.26   Violations
   
92.27   Exceptions
   
92.28   Rules adopted by reference
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. The meaning given to it in M.S. § 168B.011, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   JUNK VEHICLE. The meaning given to it in M.S. § 168B.011, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. The meaning given to it in M.S. § 169.011, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   NOXIOUS WEED. An annual, biennial or perennial plant that the Commissioner
designates to be injurious to public health, the environment, public roads,
crops, livestock or other property.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the city which is privately owned
and not public property, as defined in this section.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. An act which maintains or permits a condition which
unreasonably annoys, injures or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort
or repose of any considerable number of members of the public.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street or highway and includes the entire width between
the boundary lines of every way publicly maintained for the purposes of travel,
and shall also mean any other publicly-owned property or facility.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, sludge from a water supply treatment plant or
air contaminant treatment facility, and other discarded waste materials and
sludges, in solid, semi-solid, liquid or contained gaseous form, resulting from
industrial, commercial, mining and agricultural operations, and from community
activities.
(2001 Code, § 9.01)
§ 92.02 PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITION.
   A person must not act, or fail to act, in a manner that is or causes a
public nuisance. For the purpose of §§
92.02 and
92.021 through
92.029, a person that does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a
public nuisance:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or §§
92.02 and
92.021 through
92.029 to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 25-03, passed -14-2025) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.021 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   The exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulation of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight,
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
(Ord. 25-03, passed -14-2025) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.022 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except otherwise
authorized and permitted by federal, state, or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is manufactured or
disposed of in violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are
permitted to resort, for the purpose of drinking intoxicating or 3.2 malt
liquor, or where intoxicating or 3.2 malt liquor is kept for sale or other
disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and other property used for
maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating or
3.2 malt liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or
illegal purpose.
(Ord. 25-03, passed -14-2025) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.023 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice that is not removed from public sidewalks within 24
hours after the snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to
fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees that are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   Any person participating in any party or other gathering that causes
the unreasonable disturbance of the peace, quiet or repose of another person in
such a manner as to be plainly audible at the boundary of the real property,
building, structure or residence from which the noise originates, or at a
distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise. PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as
sound that can be detected by a person using their unaided hearing faculties;
   (E)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations;
   (F)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds, except under conditions as are
permitted by §§
92.02 and
92.021 through
92.029 or other applicable law;
   (G)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (H)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk that causes large crowds or people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (I)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated as to endanger public safety, or not constructed and
maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (J)   The allowing of rainwater, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (K)   Any barbed wire fence located less than six feet above the ground and
within three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (L)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (M)   Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other public
properties;
   (N)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other materials in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes, vermin or the rank growth of vegetation among
the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or other safety
hazards from such accumulation;
   (O)   Any well, hole or similar excavation that is left uncovered or in such
other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (P)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (Q)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substances that may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over such
substance;
   (R)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (S)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel; and
   (T)   All other conditions or things that are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of another.
(Ord. 25-03, passed -14-2025) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.024 NOISE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited noises. The following are declared to be nuisances
affecting public health, safety, peace or welfare:
      (1)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or
welfare of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property, or affects
their property’s value in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the
boundary of the real property, building, structure or residence from which the
noise originates, or at a distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise.
(This general prohibition is not limited by any specific restrictions provided
in §§
92.02 and
92.021 through
92.029 ). PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as sound that can be detected by a person
using his or her unaided hearing faculties;
      (2)   All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation of
Minn. Rules, ch. 7030, as it may be amended from time to time, are hereby
incorporated into §§
92.02 and
92.021 through
92.029 by reference;
      (3)   The use of any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to create
loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other noise;
      (4)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of the
exhaust of any statutory internal combustion engine, motorboat, motor vehicle,
motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile or any recreational device,
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
      (5)   Any loud or excessive noise in the loading, unloading or unpacking
of any vehicle; and
      (6)   The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device, paging
system, machine or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a
distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and
comfort of any person nearby.
   (B)   Hourly restriction of certain operations.
      (1)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.
on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
      (2)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or refuse
in any residential district, except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any
weekend or holiday.
      (3)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
      (4)   Radios, music devices, paging systems and the like. The operation
of any device referred to in division (A)(6) above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section.
   (C)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person applying
for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any structure,
operation, process, installation, alteration or project that may be considered
a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a form
prescribed by the Council. The Council shall evaluate each such statement and
take its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or
permit applied for or the zoning changes requested.
(Ord. 25-03, passed -14-2025) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.025 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it:
      (1)   Obstructs views on streets and private property;
      (2)   Creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas;
      (3)   Prevents the full use of residential streets for residential
parking;
      (4)   Introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial
advertising signs are otherwise prohibited;
      (5)   Decreases adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ use and enjoyment of
their property and neighborhood; and
      (6)   Otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage of
ice fishing houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses or other similar non-permanent
structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front yard area
of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front property
line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store or allow the placement or storage of
pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery or similar materials, including all
materials used in conjunction with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property, unless it complies
with the following requirements.
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of non-residential characteristics of
the property. The maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional guests
who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front yard
areas must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away from school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
(Ord. 25-03, passed -14-2025) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.026 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Any motor vehicle described in this section
shall constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the
community as such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and
breeding ground for vermin and present physical danger to the safety and well-
being of children and citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids
which, if released into the environment, can and do cause significant health
risks to the community.
   (B)   Inoperable motor vehicles. It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store
or abandon any motor vehicle that is not in operating condition, partially
dismantled, used for repair of parts or as a source of repair or replacement
parts for other vehicles, kept for scrapping, dismantling or salvage of any
kind, or which is not properly licensed for operation within the state,
pursuant to M.S. § 168B.011, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Screening. This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in
a building and/or kept out of view from any street, road or alley, and which
does not foster complaints from a resident of the city. Privacy fencing is
permissible.
(Ord. 25-03, passed -14-2025)
§ 92.027 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   City officials may apply and enforce any provision of §§
92.02 and
92.021 through
92.029 relating to public nuisances within this jurisdiction. Any peace officer
or other designated city official shall have the power to inspect private
premises and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and
maintenance of public nuisances. Except in emergency situations of imminent
danger to human life and safety, no peace officer or designated city official
will enter private property for the purpose of inspecting or preventing public
nuisances without the permission of the owner, resident or other person in
control of the property, unless the officer or person designated has obtained a
warrant or order from a court of competent jurisdiction authorizing entry.
(Ord. 25-03, passed -14-2025)
§ 92.028 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Procedure. Whenever the peace officer or other designated official
determines that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises
in the city, the official shall notify in writing the owner of record and
occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be terminated
or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be taken to abate
the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be abated. If the
notice of violation is not complied with within the time specified, the
official shall report that fact forthwith to the City Council. Thereafter, the
City Council may, after notice to the owner and occupant and an opportunity to
be heard, determine that the condition identified in the notice of violation is
a nuisance and further order that if the nuisance is not abated within the time
prescribed by the City Council, the city may seek injunctive relief by serving
a copy of the City Council order and notice of motion for summary enforcement
or obtain an administrative search and seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Notice. Written notice of the violation; notice of the time, date,
place and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of the City
Council order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be
served by a peace officer or designated official on the owner of record and
occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered mail.
If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown or if the owner
of record or occupant refuses to accept notice, notice of the violation shall
be served by positing it on the premises.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the procedure and notice requirements
as set forth in divisions (A) and (B) above will permit a continuing nuisance
to unreasonably endanger public health, safety or welfare, the City Council may
order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with summary
enforcement, the peace officer or other designated official shall determine
that a public nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city
and that delay in abatement will unreasonably endanger public health, safety or
welfare. The officer or designated official shall notify in writing the
occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance, whether public
health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement
required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A) above and may
order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is
not immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition that
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (E)   Unlawful parties or gatherings. When law enforcement determines that a
gathering is creating such a noise disturbance as prohibited under §
92.024, the officer may order all persons present, other than the owner or
tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disburse
immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by
law enforcement. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has knowledge of
the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance
is stopped.
   (F)   Judicial remedy. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from
seeking a judicial remedy when no other adequate administrative remedy exists.
(Ord. 25-03, passed -14-2025) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.029 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of the premises on which a nuisance has
been abated by the city, or a person who has caused a public nuisance on
property not owned by that person, shall be personally liable for the cost to
the city of the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work
has been completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other city
official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon
the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City
Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk shall,
on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the
total unpaid charges along with all other such charges as well as other charges
for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101 against each separate
lot or parcel to which the charges are attributable. The City Council may then
spread the charges against the property under that statute and any other
pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along
with current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding
ten, as the City Council may determine in each case.
(Ord. 25-03, passed -14-2025)
§ 92.03 BUILDINGS AS PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences and other structures which
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detracts from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they:
      (1)   Are unsightly;
      (2)   Decrease adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ enjoyment of their
property and neighborhood; and
      (3)   Adversely affect property values and neighborhood pattern.
   (B)   Standard. Any building, fence or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface shall have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose or rotting boards or timber.
      (2)   Every exterior surface which has had a surface finish such as paint
applied shall be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of having
peeling, cracked, chipped or otherwise deteriorated surface finish on more than
25% of the total exterior.
   (C)   Foundations, exterior walls and roof. The foundation, exterior walls
and exterior roof shall be substantially water-tight and protected against
vermin and rodents and shall be kept in sound condition and repair. The
foundation element shall adequately support the building at all points. Every
exterior wall shall be free of structural deterioration or any other condition,
which might admit rain or dampness to the interior portion of the walls or to
the interior spaces of the dwelling. The roof shall be tight and have no
defects which admit rain and roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent rain
water from causing dampness in the walls. All exterior surfaces, other than
decay resistant materials, shall be protected from the elements and decay by
paint or other protective covering or treatment. If approximately 25% or more
of the total exterior surface is unpainted or lacks a protective coating or is
determined by the Police Department to be deteriorated, the surface shall have
a protective covering applied. If approximately 25% or more of the total
exterior surface of the pointing of any brick, block or stone wall is loose or
has fallen out, the surface shall be repaired.
   (D)   Windows, doors and screens.
      (1)   Every window, exterior door and hatchway shall be substantially
tight and shall be kept in repair. Every window other than a fixed window or
storm window shall be capable of being easily opened. Every window, door and
frame shall be constructed and maintained in the relation to the adjacent wall
construction as to completely exclude rain, vermin and rodents from entering
the building.
      (2)   All cornices, molding, lintels, bay or dormer windows, and similar
projections, shall be kept in good repair and free from cracks and defects,
which make them hazardous and unsightly. Roof surfaces shall be tight and have
no defect which admit water. All roof drainage systems shall be secured and
hung properly.
   (E)   Notification, abatement and personal liability. Notification,
abatement and personal liability shall be as outlined in §
92.02 of this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 9.02A) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 NOXIOUS WEEDS AND TREES.
   (A)   Noxious weed elimination. Any noxious weeds shall be cut down,
eradicated or otherwise destroyed as often as may be necessary to prevent the
ripening or scattering of seeds or other propagating parts of the weeds or
grass. In no event shall the weeds be allowed to grow to a height greater than
six inches.
   (B)   Trimming and corner clearance of trees and shrubs. Any tree or hedge
which interferes with the safety and convenience of public travel or interferes
with the construction, reconstruction or maintenance of any street or right-of-
way, or causes any obstructions, shall be trimmed, cut down or otherwise
destroyed as often as may be necessary.
   (C)   Notification. In the event the owner of any property fails to properly
trim or remove a tree or hedge in violation of division (B) above or permits
noxious weeds to grow in violation of division (A) above, the city’s Clerk-
Treasurer shall serve notice upon the owner of the property if the owner
resides in the city and can be found, or upon the occupant in the event the
owner does not reside in the city or cannot be found, by certified mail. The
notice shall order the occupant or owner to comply with divisions (A) or (B)
above within 14 days after receipt of the notice. The notice shall state that
in the event the owner or occupant does not comply with the order, the city, at
the expense of the owner, will perform the necessary work. If the owner does
not pay for the expense, the cost of the work shall be assessed against the
property benefitted. Further, in the event the property is not on a public
roadway, the notice shall inform all abutting owners of their right to a
hearing prior to the cutting and removal of timber and wood, in accordance with
M.S. § 160.22, subd. 10, as it may be amended from time to time. If no owner or
occupant of the property can be found, the notice shall be posted on the
property for a period of 14 days, after which period the city may perform any
necessary work.
   (D)   Performance of work by city; invoice. If the owner or occupant of any
property fails, within 14 days after receipt or posting to comply with the
order set forth in any notice given pursuant to the provision of division (C)
above, the city shall perform the work as is ordered by the notice. The city
shall maintain a record showing the cost of the work attributable to each
separate lot and parcel. The city shall prepare and mail to the owner an
invoice setting forth the charge for the work, which charge shall be
immediately due and payable at the office of the city’s Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the city’s Clerk-
Treasurer shall list the total unpaid charges for each type of the work against
each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are attributable pursuant to
this section. The Council may then assess the charges against the property
benefitted as a special assessment, pursuant to the provisions of M.S. Ch. 429,
as it may be amended from time to time, for certification to the county’s
Auditor and collection together with current taxes for the following year.
(2001 Code, § 9.03) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 ABANDONED OR JUNKED VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Any motor vehicle described in this section
shall constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of the
community as such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter and
breeding ground for vermin, and present physical danger to the safety and well-
being of children and citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids
which, if released into the environment, can and do cause significant health
risks to the community.
   (B)   Definition of inoperable motor vehicles. It shall be unlawful to keep,
park, store, or abandon any motor vehicle that is not in operating condition,
partially dismantled, used for repair of parts or salvage of any kind, has
licensing tabs that are expired longer than 90 days or which is not properly
licensed for operation within the state, pursuant to M.S. § 168B.011, subd. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Limited business exemption. The definition of inoperable motor vehicle
would not apply to vehicles that are in the possession of a service shop or
business that repairs vehicles as long as the vehicle in not on the property
longer than 60 days and the vehicle in not owned by the business or anyone
associated with the business. It is unlawful to operate a vehicle service shop
business from a residence, see
Chapter 154 of this code.
   (D)   Screening. This section does not apply to motor vehicle enclosed in a
building and/or kept out of view from any street, road, or alley, by permitted
privacy fencing and which does not foster complaint from a resident of the
city.
(Ord. 2017-02, passed 12-17-2017) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 SOLID WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to bring, deposit or leave within the city any
unwholesome substance or deposit solid waste within the city, unless otherwise
authorized by law.
(2001 Code, § 9.05) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 DOGS.
   (A)   Licensing. No person shall keep any dog within the city without
securing a license from the city’s Clerk-Treasurer, who shall keep a record of
all licenses issued.
   (B)   License application. Any application shall be made in writing at the
office of the city’s Clerk-Treasurer. A certificate of vaccination must
accompany all applications from a qualified source certifying that the dog as
been vaccinated against rabies, or has received a booster shot, within the 24-
month period immediately preceding the application. Each license shall contain
a date, a number, the name and address of the owner or keeper of the dog and a
description of the dog. The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a metal tag for
each license containing the year and number of the license. Dog tags are not
transferable and no refunds shall be made for any reason.
   (C)   License fee. The dog license fee shall be set annually by the City
Council.
   (D)   Restraint of dogs. No dog shall be permitted to run at large in the
city. All dogs shall be under restraint at all times. This restriction does not
prohibit the appearance of any dog upon streets or public property when the dog
is on a leash or is kept under immediate control of the person charged with its
care.
   (E)   Dog impoundment.
      (1)   Any dog found unlicensed or running at large away from the owner’s
or keeper’s premises, may be impounded by the city. In such case, the city
shall give notice to the owner or keeper of the dog if known or is
ascertainable. In case the owner is unknown and ownership cannot easily be
ascertained, the city shall post notice at the City Hall that the dog has been
impounded. The notice shall give a reasonable description of the dog and state
that if the dog is not claimed within 72 hours of actual notice to the owner,
if known, or within 72 hours of posted notice if the owner is not known, it may
be destroyed. Any dog impounded shall be housed and fed in a humane manner at a
suitable place. Any such dog may be redeemed by the owner within the time
stated in the notice, upon payment to the city of an impounding fee, together
with the license fee for the current year; provided, the dog was not previously
licensed. Upon presentation of a current license tag and receipt for the dog
license for the current year and upon payment of the fees provided, the dog
shall be released to the owner claiming him or her.
      (2)   If the dog is not claimed within 72 hours, it may be destroyed.
   (F)   Impounding fee. The impounding fee shall be set annually by the City
Council.
   (G)   Dogs creating nuisance prohibited. No person shall keep or harbor a
dog which by loud, frequent and habitual barking, yelping or howling shall
cause serious annoyance to the neighborhood, and no owner shall permit his or
her dog to damage any lawn, garden, shrubbery, trees or other property at any
time. The owner of the dog shall be liable for any damage.
   (H)   Confinement during prevalence of rabies. Whenever the prevalence of
rabies renders the action necessary to protect the public health and safety,
the Mayor shall issue a proclamation ordering every person owning or keeping a
dog to confine it securely on its premises unless it is muzzled so that it
cannot bite. No person shall violate the proclamation and any unmuzzled dog
running at large during the time fixed in the proclamation may be destroyed by
police without further notice to the owner.
(2001 Code, § 9.07) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 FIREARMS AND EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Discharge of firearms. It is unlawful for a person to fire or
discharge within the limits of the city any cannon, gun, pistol or other
firearm, firecracker, rocket or other fireworks, air gun, air rifle or other
similar device commonly referred to as a BB gun, except when discharging
weapons in connection with a civic, patriotic or historical display with the
express approval from the City Mayor or his or her designee.
   (B)   Exception. Nothing in division (A) above shall apply to a licensed
gunsmith test firing weapons in the course of business, which is not located
within a residentially-zoned area of the city and authorized in writing by the
Council. This section shall not apply to a display of fireworks by an
organization or group of organizations authorized in writing by the Council.
This section shall not apply to a peace officer in the discharge of his or her
duty, or to a person in the lawful defense of his or her person or family.
(2001 Code, § 9.08) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.09 DEBRIS IN STREETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, bring or leave debris
in any city street including grass clippings, leaves, brush, garbage and the
like for any period longer than 12 hours.
   (B)   The city shall notify the owner of property where the waste is
deposited or left with; the waste must be removed from the city within 12
hours. The notice shall also provide that if it is not removed, the city will
provide for its removal at the expense of the owner or occupant, which expense
shall be a lien upon the property and may be collected as a special assessment.
(2001 Code, § 9.10) Penalty, see §
92.99
BURNING REGULATIONS
§ 92.20 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate open burning within the city
and to protect the public health, safety and welfare. Through passage of this
subchapter, the designated fire official or any law enforcement officer is
hereby authorized to adopt and impose burning restrictions.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2016)
§ 92.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTENDANCE. Open burning, recreational fires and use of portable outdoor
fireplaces shall be constantly attended by an adult until the fire is
extinguished. A minimum of one portable fire extinguisher or other approved on-
site fire-extinguishing equipment, such as dirt, sand, water barrel or garden
hose shall be made available for immediate utilization.
   BURNING BAN. The County Sheriff’s Department has instituted a ban on all or
some kinds of burning within the county.
   DESIGNATED FIRE OFFICIAL. The Fire Chief, Fire Marshal or any other designee
who provides fire protection or public safety services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resulting combustion products
are emitted directly into the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct
or chimney, except a recreational or campfire, as defined herein. Mobile
cooking devices such as charcoal grills, wood smokers, manufactured hibachis
and propane or natural gas devices are not considered OPEN BURNING DEVICES.
   PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACES. Portable outdoor fireplaces shall be used in
accordance with the manufacturer’s instructions and shall not be operated
within 15 feet of a structure or combustible material.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with an approved starter fuel no more than
three feet in height contained within a recreational fire site: using dry,
clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the property
line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for recreational,
ceremonial or social food preparation; extinguished completely before quitting
the occasion; and respecting weather conditions, neighbors, burning bans and
air quality requirements so that nuisance, health or safety hazards will not be
created. A campfire is a type of RECREATIONAL FIRE. No more than one
RECREATIONAL FIRE is allowed on any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three-foot diameter circle
(as measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded
by non-combustible and non-smoke or odor-producing material, either natural
rock, cement, brick, tile, blocks or ferrous metal. Burning barrels are not a
RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. RECREATIONAL FIRE SITES shall not be located closer
than 25 feet to any structure or combustible material.
   RUNNING FIRE. An attended fire allowed to spread through surface vegetative
matter under controlled conditions for the purpose of vegetative management,
forest management, game habitat management or agricultural improvement.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, or unpainted kindling, branches or charcoal
fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as STARTER FUELS and
as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas burning
devices causing minimal pollution may be used to start an open burn.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuels, such as twigs, branches, limbs, manufactured
fireplace logs, charcoal, cord wood or untreated dimensional lumber. WOOD does
not include wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil-soaked
or treated with paint, glue or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for
recreational fires when cut into less than three-foot lengths.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2016)
§ 92.22 AUTHORIZED BURNING.
   (A)   Recreational campfires are the only type of burning authorized in the
city.
   (B)   Recreational campfires shall be allowed in residential zoning
districts only.
   (C)   Recreational campfires shall not be more than three feet in diameter
nor more than two feet in height.
   (D)   Recreational campfires shall be located at least 25 feet from any
structure or combustible material.
   (E)   Before a recreational campfire is lit, all of the ground within five
feet of the base of the campfire shall be cleared of combustible materials.
   (F)   Only clean, dry, untreated wood, in lengths less than three feet and
approved starter materials shall be used in a recreational campfire.
   (G)   Recreational campfires shall produce minimal detectable smoke, odor or
soot beyond the property line.
   (H)   Wind and weather conditions shall be considered prior to lighting a
recreational campfire.
   (I)   Recreational campfires shall be attended at all times by a person who
is knowledgeable in methods of extinguishing fires and who has tools for
extinguishing the fire readily available.
   (J)   Recreational campfires shall be extinguished completely before leaving
the campfire site.
   (K)   Every effort shall be taken to avoid creating a nuisance or a health
or safety hazard while burning a recreational campfire.
   (L)   Recreational campfires shall be prohibited at any time when the County
Sheriff’s Department or other authority has issued a burning ban.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.23 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit the open burning of oils,
petroleum fuels, rubber, plastic, chemically-treated materials or other
materials that produce excessive or noxious smoke such as, but not limited to:
tires; railroad ties; treated, painted or glued wood composite shingles; tar
paper; insulation; composition board; sheet rock; wiring; paint or paint
filters.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit the open burning of:
hazardous waste or materials from salvage operations; solid waste generated
from an industrial or manufactured process; materials from a service or
commercial establishment; or building materials generated from demolition of
commercial or institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit the open burning of discarded
materials resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation,
serving or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause or permit the burning of garbage.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.24 BURNING LEAVES PERMITTED.
   (A)   (1)   The burning of dried leaves is permitted within the corporate
limits of the city only in accordance with conditions set forth in M.S. §
116.082, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   The subchapter shall limit leaf burning to the period between
September 15 and December 1.
   (B)   The burning of leaves will only be permitted under the following
limits and conditions.
      (1)   The open burning of leaves will only be permitted between September
15 and December 1.
      (2)   Burning shall be limited only to the areas of the city zoned
residential.
      (3)   A fire shall not be less than five feet from any property line or
within 25 feet of any building, lumber pile, wood yard, haystack or other
combustible material.
      (4)   A responsible person shall be in constant attendance until the fire
is completely extinguished.
      (5)   Burning will only be allowed during daylight hours.
      (6)   The burning of leaves is prohibited on city streets, alleys,
sidewalks, boulevards or any public parking area by private citizens.
      (7)   No burning shall take place during an air pollution alert, high
fire danger warning or other emergency declared by the city, the state’s
Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) or the state’s Department of Natural Resources
(DNR).
      (8)   The Fire Chief, or another local fire authority designee, will have
the authority to discontinue a burn when:
         (a)   A fire hazard exists or develops during the course of the burn;
         (b)   Any of the conditions of the permit are violated during the
course of the burn; and
         (c)   It is determined that the smoke emissions are offensive to
occupants of the surrounding property.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.25 NUISANCES FIRES.
   The following are considered nuisance fires and may be extinguished by the
city’s Fire Department or other authority without notice:
   (A)   Any burning in violation of this subchapter;
   (B)   A recreational campfire, which because of changes in wind, weather or
other conditions, creates a risk to public health, safety or welfare; and
   (C)   A recreational campfire which unreasonably interferes with the
enjoyment of another person(s) property or public property.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2016)
§ 92.26 VIOLATIONS.
   The following are considered violations to this subchapter:
   (A)   To cause, or knowingly allow, burning, except as authorized by this
subchapter;
   (B)   Burning of prohibited materials;
   (C)   Burning in a business or industrial zoning district;
   (D)   To allow or cause burning in a careless or negligent manner likely to
endanger persons or property;
   (E)   To allow smoke, odor or soot from an authorized fire to disturb other
people;
   (F)   The use of flammable or combustible liquids for starting a fire; and
   (G)   To conduct, cause or allow burning during a burning ban put into
effect by the County Sheriff’s Department or other authority.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.27 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following exceptions apply to this subchapter: a burn initiated by the
city’s Fire Department for training purposes.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2016)
§ 92.28 RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   M.S. §§ 88.02 through 88.22, 88.75 and 88.76, as they may be amended from
time to time, and the state’s Fire Code are hereby adopted by reference and
made a part of this subchapter as if fully set forth at this point.
(Ord. passed 7-11-2016)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person convicted of violating any provision of §§
92.02 and
92.021 through
92.029 is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
$1,000 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, plus the costs of
prosecution in either case.
(Ord. 25-03, passed -14-2025)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   TOBACCO
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
      
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
115.   ADULT-ORIENTED ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
License Requirements
   
110.15   License required
   
110.16   Application
   
110.17   Refusal
   
110.18   False statements
   
110.19   Transfer
   
110.20   Posting
   
110.21   Duplicate license
   
110.22   Revocation
   
110.23   Validity
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this business regulations title, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   COIN AMUSEMENT. Any mechanical device which, upon the insertion of a coin,
token or slug, may be operated for entertainment or amusement.
   DANCE, PUBLIC. Any dance in which the public may participate, whether an
admission fee is charged or not.
   DANCING PLACE, PUBLIC. Any place open to public patronage in which dancing,
where the public may participate, is carried on whether an admission fee is
charged or not.
   GAME OF SKILL. Any mechanical device which, upon the insertion of a coin,
token or slug, may be operated to obtain a score or other indication.
   MUSIC MACHINE. Any mechanical device which, upon the insertion of a coin,
token or slug, may be operated to emit music or sound.
   PEDDLER. Any person with no fixed place of business who goes from house-to-
house, from place-to-place or from street-to-street, carrying or transporting
any goods, wares or merchandise and selling or offering or exposing for sale
those goods, wares or merchandise.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who goes from house-to-house, from place-to-place or
from street-to-street soliciting or attempting to take orders for any goods,
wares or merchandise for future delivery.
   TOBACCO. Any tobacco in any form, including cigarettes and cigars, and
bagged, canned or packaged tobacco.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Any person who engages temporarily in the business of
selling and delivering any goods, wares or merchandise within the city and who,
in furtherance of such purpose, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building,
structure, vacant lot or vehicle.
(2001 Code, § 4.01)
LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 110.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to conduct any activity for which a license is
required without having first obtained a license for the activity.
(2001 Code, § 4.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.16 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every application for a license shall be made to the city’s Clerk-
Treasurer upon a form as may be prescribed by the City Council. Upon a
determination by the city’s Clerk-Treasurer that all requirements of this
business regulations title have been met, including the payment of applicable
fees and proof of insurance if required, the application shall be presented to
the City Council for action.
   (B)   Upon Council approval, the city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall issue the
license.
(2001 Code, § 4.02)
§ 110.17 REFUSAL.
   The City Council may, at the sole discretion of the Council, and for any
reasonable cause, refuse to grant any application for any license.
(2001 Code, § 4.02)
§ 110.18 FALSE STATEMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to intentionally make any false
statement or to intentionally omit any required information in the completion
of any application form.
   (B)   Any false statement or omission shall render the application, or any
license issued, invalid and of no effect.
(2001 Code, § 4.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.19 TRANSFER.
   No license issued pursuant to this business regulations title may be
transferred from one person to another or from one location to another without
the prior consent of the City Council.
(2001 Code, § 4.02)
§ 110.20 POSTING.
   Each license issued pursuant to this business regulations title shall be
posted on the premises for which the license has been issued.
(2001 Code, § 4.02)
§ 110.21 DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   (A)   The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall issue a duplicate for any license
issued pursuant to this business regulations title, upon the filing of an
affidavit by the licensee stating that the original license was lost or
destroyed and upon payment of a duplicate license fee.
   (B)   Each duplicate license shall be clearly marked as a duplicate.
(2001 Code, § 4.02)
§ 110.22 REVOCATION.
   The City Council may either suspend or revoke any license issued pursuant to
this business regulations title for good cause. No suspension or revocation
shall take effect until the licensee has been given an opportunity for a
hearing pursuant to the provisions of state statutes.
(2001 Code, § 4.02)
§ 110.23 VALIDITY.
   No license issued or renewed pursuant to this business regulations title
shall be deemed valid until any and all license fees have been paid in full and
any required insurance provided.
(2001 Code, § 4.02)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
111.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
111.04   License ineligibility
   
111.05   License suspension and revocation
   
111.06   License transferability
   
111.07   Registration
   
111.08   Prohibited activities
   
111.09   Exclusion by placard
   
111.10   Effectiveness
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to- street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personal property that the person is carrying or
otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
“hawker.”
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street- to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person's activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the
same as the term “canvasser.”
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for
more than 14 consecutive days.
§ 111.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by
the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
111.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
§ 111.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Ch.
329 as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a license for
the
activity.
   (B)   City license required. Pursuant to M.S. § 437.02, as it may be amended
from time to time, except as otherwise provided for by this chapter, no person
shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient merchant without
first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need not be licensed,
but are still required to register pursuant to §
111.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business operations in the
city. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the City
Council and available from the office of the City Clerk. All applications shall
be signed by the applicant. All applications shall include the following
information:
      (1)   Applicant's full legal name.
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers.
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like).
      (4)   Full address of applicant's permanent residence.
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant's permanent residence.
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent.
      (7)   Full address of applicant's regular place of business (if any).
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines.
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license.
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license.
       (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city, with a maximum 14 consecutive
days.
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business.
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses.
      (14)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant.
      (15)   Proof of any required county license.
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner's
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant.
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council.
      (19)   The applicant's driver's license number or other acceptable form
of identification.
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number (VIN) for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business, and a physical description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the Ordinance Establishing Fees and
Charges, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk, within two regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk
determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk must inform the
applicant of the required necessary information that is missing. If the
application is complete, the City Clerk must order any investigation, including
background checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the
application. Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete
application the City Clerk must issue the license unless there exist grounds
for denying the license under §
111.04, in which case the Clerk must deny the license application. If the City
Clerk denies the license application, the applicant must be notified in writing
of the decision, the reason for denial, and of the applicant's right to appeal
the denial by requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of rejection, a
public hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal
within 20 days of the date of the request for a public hearing. The decision of
the City Council following the public hearing can be appealed by petitioning
the Minnesota Court of Appeals for a writ of certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted to
peddlers and transient merchants under this chapter shall be valid only during
the time period indicated on the license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place movement when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that
person's State or Federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech,
press, religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the
person's exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license.
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person's
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant.
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Office of the Minnesota Attorney General, or other state attorney
general’s office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or
agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints filed against the
applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 111.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation or
incorrect statements provided by the applicant on the application form.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
      (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense for which granting of a
license could have been denied under §
111.04.
      (4)   Engaging in prohibited activity as provided under §
111.08.
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person's authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten regular
business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with
the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall
be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be
scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person's license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 REGISTRATION.
   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements of
this chapter under §
111.03, shall be required to register with the city. Persons engaging in door-
to-door advocacy shall not be required to register. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR
ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and pamphleteering as vehicles for
the dissemination of religious, political and other ideas. Registration shall
be made on the same form required for a license application, but no fee shall
be required. Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City
Clerk shall issue to the registrant a Certificate of Registration as proof of
the registration. Certificates of Registration shall be non- transferable.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public.
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person.
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conducting business in a manner a reasonable person would find
obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient
Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign
or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.10 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The provisions of §§
111.01,
111.02,
111.08 and
111.09 shall automatically apply upon adoption of this chapter. Sections
111.03,
111.04,
111.05,
111.06 and
111.07 shall not be effective until the adoption of a City Council resolution
or ordinance authorizing the licensing of persons covered by those sections.
CHAPTER 112: TOBACCO
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions and interpretations
   
112.03   License
   
112.04   Fees
   
112.05   Basis for denial of license
   
112.06   Prohibited sales
   
112.07   Vending machines
   
112.08   Self-service sales
   
112.09   Responsibility
   
112.10   Compliance checks and inspections
   
112.11   Other illegal acts
   
112.12   Violations
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   The city recognizes that many persons under the age of 21 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco-related devices, and the sales, possession and use are violations of
both state and federal laws.
      (2)   Smoking has been shown to be the cause of several serious health
problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of
government.
   (B)   This chapter shall regulate the sale, possession and use of tobacco,
tobacco products and tobacco-related devices for the purpose of enforcing and
furthering existing laws to protect minors against the serious effects
associated with the illegal use of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco-
related devices.
   (C)   It shall further the official public policy of the state in regard to
preventing young people from starting to smoke as stated in M.S. § 144.391, as
it may be amended from time to time.
(2001 Code, § 4.04) (Res. 2020-01, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   The singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the
singular. The masculine shall include the feminine and neuter, and vice-versa.
The term “shall” means mandatory and the term “may” means permissive.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure
that those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco-related
devices are following and complying with the requirements of this chapter.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall involve the use of minors as authorized by this
chapter. COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of minors who attempt to
purchase tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices for educational,
research and training purposes as authorized by state and federal laws.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of government for the
purpose of enforcing appropriate federal, state or local laws and regulations
relating to tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco-related devices.
      INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. INDIVIDUALLY WRAPPED TOBACCO AND TOBACCO
PRODUCTS shall include, but not be limited to, single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form and single cans or other packaging of
snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container, as described in this section, shall not be
considered INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED.
      LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually
packaged cigarette.
      MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 21 years.
      MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
      RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco-related devices are available for sale to the general
public. RETAIL ESTABLISHMENTS shall include, but not be limited to, grocery
stores, convenience stores and restaurants.
      SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other
consideration.
      SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco-related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices, without the assistance or
intervention of the licensee or the licensee’s employee. The assistance or
intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product or tobacco-related device between the customer and the licensee or
employee. SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING shall not include vending machines.
      TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance or item containing tobacco
leaf, including, but not limited to: cigarettes; cigars, pipe tobacco; snuff;
fine cut or other chewing tobacco; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, lug
cut, crimp cut, ready-rubbed and other smoking tobacco; snuff flowers;
cavendish; shorts; plug and twist tobaccos; dipping tobaccos; refuse scraps,
clippings, cuttings and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of
tobacco leaf prepared in a manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing or
smoking.
      TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco product as well as pipe, rolling
papers or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used in a
manner which enables the chewing, sniffing or smoking of tobacco or tobacco
products.
      VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco-related device.
(2001 Code, § 4.04) (Res. 2020-01, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 112.03 LICENSE.
   No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco-related device without first having obtained a license to do so from
the city.
   (A)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco-related devices shall be made on a form provided by the
city. The application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the
applicant’s residential and business addresses and tobacco-related devices
shall be made on a form provided by the city. The application shall contain the
full name of the applicant, the applicant’s residential and business addresses
and telephone numbers, the name of the business for which the license is sought
and any additional information the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a
completed application, the city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall forward the application
to the City Council for action at its next regularly scheduled Board meeting.
If the city’s Clerk-Treasurer determines that an application is incomplete, he
or she shall return the application to the applicant with notice of the
information necessary to make the application complete.
   (B)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the license or it
may delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary.
   (C)   Term. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for one
calendar year from the date of issue.
   (D)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in §§
112.12 and
10.99.
   (E)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the City Council.
   (F)   Movable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (G)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premises.
   (H)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days, but no more than 60 days, before the
expiration of the current license. The issuance of a license issued under this
chapter shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the
applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the
license.
(2001 Code, § 4.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
$100.
(2001 Code, § 4.04)
§ 112.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of
a license under this chapter. However, except as may otherwise be provided by
law, the existence of any particular ground for denial does not mean that the
city must deny the license.
   (B)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this section:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 21 years;
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state or local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products or tobacco-related devices;
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco-related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date
of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application or provides false or misleading information; and/or
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state or other local law,
ordinance or other regulation from holding such a license.
(2001 Code, § 4.04) (Res. 2020-01, passed 2-10-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 21 years;
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in this chapter;
   (C)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premises in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related device and
whereby there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco-related device between the licensee or the licensee’s employee and the
customer;
   (D)   By means of loosies, as defined in §
112.02 of this chapter;
   (E)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, belladonna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances, except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process; and
   (F)   By any other means, to any other person, in any other manner or form
prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision or other
regulation.
(2001 Code, § 4.04) (Res. 2020-01, passed 2-10-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices by means of a
vending machine unless minors are at all times prohibited from entering the
licensed establishment.
(2001 Code, § 4.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the sale of
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices by any means where the
customer may have access to such items without having to request the item from
the licensee or the licensee’s employee and where there is not a physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product or the tobacco-related device between
the licensee or his or her clerk and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco
products and tobacco-related devices shall either be stored behind a counter or
other area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage
unit not left open and accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling
tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices at the time this chapter
is adopted shall comply with this section within 90 days following the
effective date of this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 4.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.09 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-
related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of such an item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also subjecting the
clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this chapter, state or
federal law or other applicable law or regulation.
(2001 Code, § 4.04)
§ 112.10 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the County
Sheriff, City Police Department or other official during regular business
hours. From time to time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct
compliance checks by engaging, with the written consent of their parents or
guardians, minors over the age of 15 years, but less than 21 years, to enter
the licensed premise to attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco-related devices. Minors used for the purpose of compliance checks shall
be supervised by city-designated law enforcement officers or other designated
city personnel. Minors used for compliance checks shall not be guilty of
unlawful possession of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices
when the items are obtained as part of the compliance check. No minor used in
compliance checks shall attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting
the minor’s age. All minors lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer
all questions about the minor’s age asked by the licensee or his or her
employee and shall produce any identification, if any exists, for which he or
she is asked.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by
state or federal laws for educational, research or training purposes or
required for the enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
(2001 Code, § 4.04) (Res. 2020-01, passed 2-10-2020)
§ 112.11 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-related
device to any minor.
   (B)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-
related device. This division (B) shall not apply to minors lawfully involved
in a compliance check.
   (C)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to
smoke, chew, sniff or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product or tobacco-
related device.
   (D)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco,
tobacco product or tobacco-related device. It shall be a violation of this
chapter for any person to purchase or otherwise obtain the items on behalf of a
minor. It shall further be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt to
coerce a minor to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco,
tobacco product or tobacco-related device. This division (D) shall not apply to
minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (E)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false
form of identification, whether the identification is that of another person or
one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with, to
represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
(2001 Code, § 4.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.12 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged violator
shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his or her
right to be heard on the accusation.
   (B)   Hearings. If a person accused of violating this chapter so requests, a
hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be published and
provided to the accused violator.
   (C)   Hearing officer. The City Council shall serve as the hearing officers.
   (D)   Decision. If the hearing officers determine that a violation of this
chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officers’ reasons for
finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under §
10.99, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the
accused violator. Likewise, if the hearing officers find that no violation
occurred or find grounds for not imposing any penalty, the findings shall be
recorded and a copy provided to the acquitted accused violator.
   (E)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officers shall be
filed in the District Court for the city in which the alleged violation
occurred.
   (F)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this chapter. If the city elects to seek misdemeanor prosecution, no
administrative penalty shall be imposed.
   (G)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
(2001 Code, § 4.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS AND LEISURE
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Coin-operated amusement devices
   
113.02   Public dances
Rummage Sales, Garage Sales and Yard Sales
   
113.15   Definitions
   
113.16   Restrictions and prohibitions
   
113.17   Exceptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   License required. No person shall keep, maintain or possess any game
of skill, coin-amusement device or music machine for use by the public at any
place in the city without first having obtained a license.
   (B)   License fee. The license fees for a game of skill license, a coin-
amusement device license and a music machine license shall be set annually by
the City Council.
   (C)   Term of license. Each license issued pursuant to the provisions of
this section shall expire on December 31 in the year of issuance.
(2001 Code, § 4.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.02 PUBLIC DANCES.
   (A)   License required. No person shall give, hold or conduct a public dance
at any place in the city without first having obtained a licensed.
   (B)   License fee. The license fees for a single public dance license and a
public dancing place license shall be set annually by the City Council.
   (C)   Police protection required.
      (1)   The City Council may require the applicant to provide policing of
the immediate and surrounding area in or upon which the dance is held.
      (2)   This policing shall be at the applicant’s own expense by an officer
approved by the Chief of Police.
(2001 Code, § 4.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
RUMMAGE SALES, GARAGE SALES AND YARD SALES
§ 113.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. Any display and sale of personal property conducted on a
premises located in any residential zoned district or any other residential
district that may be created in the future. A GARAGE SALE does not require a
business license or make taxable sales, leases or services.
   RUMMAGE SALES. Any sale of new, used or secondhand goods or merchandise from
a dwelling or residentially zoned area where the general public is invited to
purchase, trade or bargain for such goods or merchandise.
   YARD SALES. Any sale of new, used or secondhand goods or merchandise from
the personal property or residential zoned area where the sale takes place in
the yard area of the residential zoned property.
(2001 Code, § 9.11)
§ 113.16 RESTRICTIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Sales may be held and signs displayed providing they are performed in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   A person may sell or offer for sale any new, used or secondhand goods
or merchandise from a dwelling or residentially zoned area where the general
public is invited to purchase, trade or bargain for goods or merchandise,
commonly known as rummage, garage, yard and the like sales; provided, he or she
shall adhere to the following.
      (1)   Any sale shall be conducted solely within the boundaries of the
property owned or occupied by the persons conducting the sale.
      (2)   No item for sale shall have been obtained for re-sale or received
on consignment for sale.
      (3)   No dwelling or residentially zoned area shall be used for the sales
more often than seven days per year in one calendar year.
      (4)   No sale shall be held between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (5)   No sale shall be conducted during any part of more than three
consecutive days.
      (6)   No property or advertisement of property or signs shall be placed
on public property including a street, boulevard or sidewalk.
      (7)   Signs must be freestanding and may not be affixed to any street
signs, utility poles, hydrants, structures or placed on any street or sidewalk
so as to impede the flow of traffic. All related signs shall conform to the
applicable provisions and be removed at the termination of the sale.
      (8)   Once a year, an individual may have garage sales on consecutive
weekends. With the exception of this one-time per-year provision allowing
garage sales on consecutive weekends, all other garage sales by any given
individual shall be separated by at least 30 days.
(2001 Code, § 9.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 113.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any sale under a court order, nor a bona
fide auction sale, nor to a sale exclusively of farm or garden products by the
person producing the same.
(2001 Code, § 9.11)
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   State law adopted by reference
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Licenses; applications
   
114.04   Special Sunday hours and on-sale licenses
   
114.05   Search and inspections
3.2% Malt Liquor
   
114.20   License required
   
114.21   License fee
   
114.22   Investigation
   
114.23   Hours of sale
Intoxicating Liquor
   
114.35   License required
   
114.36   License fees
   
114.37   Investigation of on-sale licenses
   
114.38   Restrictions on number of licenses that may be issued
   
114.39   Hours of sale
On-Sale Wine
   
114.50   License required
   
114.51   License fee
   
114.52   Hours of sale
Bottle Clubs
   
114.65   Permit required
   
114.66   Permit fee
   
114.67   Hours of sale
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of MS. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
relating to the retail sale, distribution and consumption of alcoholic
beverages are adopted and made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It
is the intent of the city to be in compliance with the law as set forth in M.S.
Ch. 340A, the Liquor Act, as it may be amended from time to time. If any
provision of this chapter or any other chapter of the city code conflicts with
M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, the state statute
provision shall prevail. The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall have the authority to
change the content of this chapter when the changes are needed to bring the
content into compliance with state statutes.
(2001 Code, § 5.01)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms used in this chapter and defined in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, have the meaning given to them in that section.
(2001 Code, § 5.02)
§ 114.03 LICENSES; APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Form. Each application for a license required by this chapter
shall be made upon a form provided by the city’s Clerk-Treasurer, with
additional information as the City Council may require, and shall be verified
by the applicant.
      (2)   Payment required. Each application for a license required by this
chapter shall be accompanied by a receipt from the city’s Clerk-Treasurer for
payment in full of the license fee. If an application for a license is refused,
the amount paid as a license fee shall be refunded.
      (3)   Liability/insurance required. In accordance with M.S. § 340A.409,
as it may be amended from time to time, each applicant for, or holder of, a
license as required by this chapter shall file with the city’s Clerk-Treasurer,
and shall maintain for the effective period of the license, evidence of a
liability insurance policy. The policy shall provide at least $50,000 of
coverage for bodily injury to any one person in any one occurrence, $100,000
for bodily injury to two or more persons in any one occurrence. The policy
shall also contain $10,000 for injury to or destruction of property of others
in any one occurrence. In addition, it shall contain $50,000 for loss of means
of support of any one person in any one occurrence and $100,000 for loss of
means of support of two or more persons in any one occurrence. The policy shall
provide that it may not be cancelled for any cause by either the insured or the
insurer unless written notice of the cancellation has been given to the city’s
Clerk-Treasurer at least ten days before the cancellation.
(2001 Code, § 5.03)
   (B)   (1)   Issuance. If an application for a license required by this
chapter is approved by the City Council, the city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall issue
the license, upon payment of the license fee.
      (2)   Term of license. Each license, except a temporary license, issued
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall expire on December 31 in the
year of issuance. License duration shall be in accordance with the provisions
of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. Each temporary
license shall be issued for a specific event or incident named and described in
the application for the license, which event shall be stated on the license and
shall not exceed three consecutive days in duration.
      (3)   Refusal. The City Council may, at the sole discretion of the
Council and for any reasonable cause, refuse to grant any application for any
license.
         (a)   No license shall be issued to any person ineligible for such a
license under M.S. § 340A.402, as it may be amended from time to time, or any
other applicable section of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to
time.
         (b)   No license shall be issued for operation on any premises upon
which taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city are delinquent
and unpaid.
      (4)   Refunds. No refund of any fee shall be made, except as authorized
by state statute.
(2001 Code, § 5.04)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 SPECIAL SUNDAY HOURS AND ON-SALE LICENSES.
   (A)   Special Sunday on-sale license.
      (1)   Special on-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor on
Sunday shall be issued only to bowling centers and to hotels, restaurants and
clubs as defined in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   All sales at such establishments shall be in accordance with M.S. §
340A.504, subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Sunday hours. The sale of on-sale intoxicating liquor on Sundays is
allowed between noon on Sunday and 1:00 a.m. on Monday. Establishments serving
liquor on Sundays must obtain a special license under division (A) above.
(2001 Code, § 5.09)
§ 114.05 SEARCH AND INSPECTIONS.
   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer or properly
designated officer or employee of the city, to enter, inspect and search the
premises of the licensee during business hours without a search warrant.
(2001 Code, § 5.10)
3.2% MALT LIQUOR
§ 114.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
no person may sell, barter, keep for sale or otherwise dispose of 3.2% malt
liquor as part of a commercial transaction within the city without first having
obtained a license to do so from the city, in accordance with the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time.
(2001 Code, § 5.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.21 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   On-sale. The annual on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license fee shall be set
annually by the City Council.
   (B)   Off-sale. The annual off-sale 3.2% malt liquor license fee shall be
set annually by the City Council.
   (C)   Temporary. The temporary on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license fee shall be
set annually by the City Council. A separate license fee is required for each
event licensed and must be secured at least three days prior to the event.
(2001 Code, § 5.05)
§ 114.22 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The City Council shall investigate all facts set out in the
application and opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license.
   (B)   After the investigation and hearing, the Council shall grant or refuse
the application at its discretion.
(2001 Code, § 5.05)
§ 114.23 HOURS OF SALE.
   Hours of sale shall be in accordance with M.S. § 340A.504, as it may be
amended from time to time, and any other applicable section of M.S. Ch. 340A,
as it may be amended from time to time.
(2001 Code, § 5.05)
INTOXICATING LIQUOR
§ 114.35 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
no person may sell, barter, keep for sale or otherwise dispose of intoxicating
liquor as part of a commercial transaction within the city without first having
obtained a license to do so from the city, in accordance with provisions of
M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time.
(2001 Code, § 5.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.36 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   On-sale. The annual on-sale intoxicating liquor license fee shall be
set annually by the City Council.
   (B)   Off-sale. The annual off-sale intoxicating liquor license fee shall be
set annually by the City Council.
   (C)   On-sale club. The annual on-sale club intoxicating liquor license fee
shall be set annually by the City Council.
   (D)   On-sale Sunday. The annual on-sale Sunday intoxicating liquor license
fee shall be set annually by the City Council.
(2001 Code, § 5.06)
§ 114.37 INVESTIGATION OF ON-SALE LICENSES.
   (A)   A preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant
shall be conducted in compliance with M.S. § 340A.412, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   The applicant shall pay an investigation fee at the time of the
application.
   (C)   The investigation fee shall be set annually by the City Council.
(2001 Code, § 5.06)
§ 114.38 RESTRICTIONS ON NUMBER OF LICENSES THAT MAY BE ISSUED.
   A maximum of four on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses and two off-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued by the city.
(2001 Code, § 5.06)
§ 114.39 HOURS OF SALE.
   Hours of sale shall be in accordance with M.S. § 340A.504, as it may be
amended from time to time, and any other applicable section of M.S. Ch. 340A,
as it may be amended from time to time.
(2001 Code, § 5.06)
ON-SALE WINE
§ 114.50 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Except as provided in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
no person may sell, barter, keep for sale or otherwise dispose of wine, an
intoxicating liquor, as part of a commercial transaction within the city
without first having obtained a license to do so from the city, in accordance
with provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time.
(2001 Code, § 5.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.51 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual on-sale wine license fee shall be set annually by the City
Council.
(2001 Code, § 5.07)
§ 114.52 HOURS OF SALE.
   Hours of sale shall be in accordance with M.S. § 340A.504, as it may be
amended from time to time, and any other applicable section of M.S. Ch. 340A,
as it may be amended from time to time.
(2001 Code, § 5.07)
BOTTLE CLUBS
§ 114.65 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No business or club which does not hold an on-sale intoxicating liquor
license may directly or indirectly allow the consumption and display of
intoxicating liquor or knowingly serve any liquid for the purpose of mixing
with intoxicating liquor without first having obtained a permit to do so in
accordance with M.S. § 340A.414, as it may be amended from time to time, and
any other applicable provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from
time to time.
(2001 Code, § 5.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.66 PERMIT FEE.
   The annual consumption and display permit fee shall be set annually by the
City Council. This fee is in addition to any fee due the Commissioner of Public
Safety.
(2001 Code, § 5.08)
§ 114.67 HOURS OF SALE.
   Hours of sale shall be in accordance with M.S. § 340A.504, as it may be
amended from time to time, and any other applicable section of M.S. Ch. 340A,
as it may be amended from time to time.
(2001 Code, § 5.08)
CHAPTER 115: ADULT-ORIENTED ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Purpose
   
115.03   License required; fee
   
115.04   Granting license
   
115.05   Persons, places ineligible for license
   
115.06   Conditions of license
   
115.07   Adult use, principal
   
115.08   Adult use, accessory
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT USES. Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult motion
picture rental, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors,
adult steam room/bathhouse/ sauna facilities, adult companionship
establishments, adult rap-conversation parlors, adult health/sport clubs, adult
cabarets, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult
modeling studios, adult hotels/motels, adult body painting studios and other
premises, enterprises, establishments, businesses or places open to some or all
members of the public, at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation,
display, depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas”, which are capable of being seen by members of the
public.
      (1)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, anus or female breast(s) below a point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
      (2)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
         (a)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation and
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexual-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty;
         (b)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal or tumescence;
         (c)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus or masturbation;
         (d)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region,
buttocks or female breast;
         (e)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such persons;
         (f)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; and
         (g)   Human erection, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
   ADULT USES, ACCESSORY. A use, business or establishment having 10% or less
of its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or more than 20% or less of
its gross receipts derived from movie rentals or magazine sales.
   ADULT USES, PRINCIPAL. A use, business or establishment having more than 10%
of its stock in trade or floor area allocated to, or more than 20% of its gross
receipts derived from, any adult use.
   BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business which provides the
service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent or non-
transparent, to or on the body of a patron when the body is wholly or partially
nude in terms of “specified anatomical areas”.
   BOOKSTORE. A building or portion of a building used for the barter, rental
or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides, records, audio
tape, videotape or motion picture film if the building or portion of a building
is not open to the public generally, but only to one or more classes of the
public excluding any minor by reason of age or if a substantial or significant
portion of such items are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   CABARET. A building or portion of a building used for providing dancing or
other live entertainment, if the building or portion of a building excludes
minors by virtue of age or if the dancing or other live entertainment is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the presentation, display,
depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A companionship establishment which excludes
minors by reason of age, or which provides the service of engaging in or
listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an employee of the
establishment and a customer, if the service is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical
areas”.
   CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A conversation/rap parlor which excludes minors by
reason of age, and provides the service of engaging in or listening to
conversation, talk or discussion, if the service is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club which excludes minors by reason of
age, if such club is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   HOTEL or MOTEL. A hotel or motel from which minors are specifically excluded
from patronage and material is presented which is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   MASSAGE PARLOR or HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club which
restricts minors by reason of age, and which provides the services of massage,
if the service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on “specified
sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building with a
capacity for less than 50 persons used for presenting material if the building
or portion of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by virtue of
age, if the material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” for observation
by patrons.
   MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the provision, to
customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent of providing
sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and who engage in
“specified sexual activities” or display “specified anatomical areas” while
being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn, sculpted, photographed
or otherwise depicted by the customers.
   MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited
and coin or slug-operated or electronically, electrically or mechanically
controlled or operated still or motor picture machines, projectors or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons
per machine at any one time, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
   MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A building or portion of a building with a capacity
of 50 or more persons used for presenting material in the building or portion
of a building as a prevailing practice excludes minors by virtue of age if the
material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas” for observation by patrons.
   NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal activity the sale of
devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which are designated for
sexual stimulation.
   SAUNA. A sauna which excludes minors by reason of age and which provides a
steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxation or
reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent,
if the service provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”.
   STEAM ROOM or BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a building used
for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
pleasure, bathing, relation or reducing, utilizing steam or hot air as a
cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the building or portion of a building
restricts minors by reason of age and if the service provided by the steam
room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas”.
(2001 Code, § 10.01)
§ 115.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter is intended to regulate “adult uses”, those premises,
enterprises, establishments, businesses or places open to some or all members
of the public, at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation,
display, depiction or description of “specified sexual activities” or
“specified anatomical areas”, which are capable of being seen by members of the
public.
   (B)   The nature of adult uses is such that they are recognized as having
adverse secondary impacts, based upon studies of the impacts that adult
establishments have on their surrounding communities. These studies have been
conducted by the state’s Attorney General, the county and cities such as St.
Paul and Alexandria, Minnesota.
   (C)   (1)   The adverse secondary impacts found in the studies include
increased crime rates, decreased property values, increased transiency,
neighborhood blight and potential health risks. These impacts are particularly
apparent when they are accessible to minors and located near residential
properties or residential uses such as schools, day care centers, libraries or
parks. The nature of the adult uses require that they not be allowed within
certain zoning districts, or set back a minimum distance from each other, or
other residential uses.
      (2)   Special regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that the
adverse secondary effects would not contribute or enhance criminal activity in
the area of the uses, nor will it contribute to the blighting or downgrading of
the surrounding property and lessening of its value.
   (D)   (1)   The standards in this chapter reflect the prevailing community
standards in the city.
      (2)   This chapter is intended to prevent harm stemming from the physical
immediacy and combination of alcohol, nudity and sex. The City Council also
desires to prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or
activities likely to lead to the possibility of various acts of criminal
conduct such as prostitution, sexual assault and disorderly conduct.
(2001 Code, § 10.02)
§ 115.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   No person shall own or operate an adult use establishment without
first having secured an adult use license from the city.
      (1)   Application. The application for an adult use license shall be
submitted on a form provided by the city and shall include:
         (a)   If the application is an individual, the name, residence, phone
number and birth date of the applicant shall be provided. If the applicant is a
partnership, the name, residence, phone number and birth date of each general
and limited partner shall be provided. If the applicant is a corporation, the
name, residence, phone numbers and birth dates of all persons holding more than
5% of the issued outstanding stock of the corporation;
         (b)   The name, address, phone number and birth date of the operator
and manager of such operation, if different from the owner(s);
         (c)   The address and legal description of the premises where the
adult establishment is to be located;
         (d)   A statement detailing any gross misdemeanor or felony
convictions relating to sex offenses, obscenity or the operation of an adult
establishment or adult business by the applicant, operator or manager, and
whether or not the applicant has ever applied for or held a license to operate
a similar type business in any other community(s). In the case of a
corporation, a statement detailing any felony convictions by the owners of more
than 5% of the issued and outstanding stock of the corporation, and whether or
not those property owners have ever applied for or held a license to operate a
similar type of business in other community(s);
         (e)   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
         (f)   The hours of operation;
         (g)   Provisions to be utilized to restrict access by minors;
         (h)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal
operations and activities; and
         (i)   The permit shall expire on December 31 of the year it is issued.
      (2)   Responsibility to obtain other permits/license. The granting of any
permit or license pursuant to requirements of this chapter, or other applicable
city ordinances, shall not relieve applicants of their responsibility to obtain
any required state or federal permits.
   (B)   (1)   Submittal of fees. Each application for an adult use license
shall be submitted to the city’s Clerk-Treasurer and shall be accompanied by
payment in full of the required fee for the adult use license.
      (2)   Expiration of adult use license. Each license shall be issued for a
period of one calendar year. All licenses shall expire on December 31 of each
year. Any portion of a year less than 12 months shall be counted as a full year
for the purpose of calculation of fees.
      (3)   Annual fee. The annual fee for an adult use license shall be as
detailed in the fee schedule established by the City Council. The fee may be
adjusted from time to time by Council resolution.
      (4)   Refund of fee. If any application for a license is rejected, the
license fee shall not be refunded. No part of the fee paid for any license
issued under this chapter shall be refunded.
(2001 Code, § 10.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.04 GRANTING LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   The Chief of Police shall investigate all facts set out in the
application. Each owner of the establishment, be it individual, partner,
limited partner, shall be subjected to a criminal history background check by
the Chief or his or her designee. Costs of the criminal history investigations
shall be borne by the applicant according to a fee schedule established by the
Chief.
      (2)   The application for the adult use license shall not be considered
complete until all required information has been furnished, the investigation
has been completed by the Chief and a report provided to the city’s Clerk-
Treasurer by the applicant.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing and report its
findings to the City Council within 30 days after the Clerk-Treasurer receives
a complete application. At the hearing, opportunity shall be given to any
person to be heard relating to the granting of the license. The City Council
shall grant or deny the adult use license within 30 days of the conclusion of
the hearing.
   (C)   (1)   The adult use license shall be issued only to the applicant and
shall not be transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only
for the premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to
another premises or person without the written permission of the City Council.
      (2)   If the licensee is a partnership or corporation, a change in the
identity of any of the principals of the partnership of corporation shall be
deemed to be a transfer of the license.
(2001 Code, § 10.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.05 PERSONS, PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to any person:
      (1)   Under 21 years of age;
      (2)   Who is overdue in payments to a city, county, state or federal
government of taxes, fees, fines or penalties, or charges for municipal
services and utilities assessed against them or imposed upon them;
      (3)   Who has been convicted of a gross misdemeanor or felony, or of
violating any law of this state or local ordinance relating to sex offenses,
obscenity offenses or adult establishments;
      (4)   Who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the
license is issued;
      (5)   To any applicant who is acting as an agent for an individual who
would be disqualified pursuant to the above criteria; or
      (6)   Who has not paid the required investigation/licensing fees required
by this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 10.05)
   (B)   (1)   No license shall be granted for adult establishments on any
premises where a licensee has been convicted of a violation of this chapter, or
where any license hereunder has been revoked for cause, until one year has
elapsed after the conviction or revocation.
      (2)   No license shall be granted for any adult establishment which is
not in compliance with the city’s land use regulations or fire, health and
safety codes and all provisions of federal and state law.
(2001 Code, § 10.06)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.06 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a
conspicuous place at all times.
      (2)   No minors shall be permitted on the premises.
      (3)   Any designated inspection officer of the city shall have the right
to enter, inspect and search the premises of a licensee during business hours.
      (4)   No adult goods or materials shall be offered, sold, transferred,
conveyed, given, displayed or bartered to any minor.
      (5)   In granting a license for an adult establishment, the City Council
may impose additional conditions to protect the best interest of the
surrounding area of the city as a whole.
      (6)   The licensee must keep itemized written records of all transactions
involving the sale or rental of all items or merchandise for at least one year
after the transaction. At a minimum, those records must describe the date of
the transaction, a description of the transaction, the purchase or rental price
and a detailed description of the item or merchandise that is being purchased
or rented. These written records must be provided to the city upon request.
      (7)   The licensee must cover or otherwise arrange all windows, doors and
apertures to prevent any person outside the licensed premises from viewing any
items or merchandise inside the premises depicting specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
(2001 Code, § 10.07)
   (B)   Adult uses, as defined in this chapter, shall be subject to the
following general provisions.
      (1)   Activities classified as obscene are not permitted and are
prohibited. In no instance shall the application or interpretation of this
chapter be construed to allow an activity otherwise prohibited by law.
      (2)   Adult uses, either principal or accessory, shall be prohibited from
locating in any building which is also utilized for residential purposes.
      (3)   An adult use which does not qualify as an accessory use pursuant to
§
115.01 of this chapter shall be classified as an adult use - principal.
(2001 Code, § 10.08)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.07 ADULT USE, PRINCIPAL.
   (A)   Adult use - principal shall be a permitted use in the B-2, General
Commercial Business District, and the I-1, Light Industrial District, subject
to the location criteria outlined in division (B) below.
   (B)   Adult use - principal shall be located at least 350 radial feet, as
measured in a straight line from the closest point of the property line of the
building upon which the adult use - principal is located to the property line
of:
      (1)   A zoning district in which residential uses are specifically listed
as a permitted or conditional use;
      (2)   A licensed day care center;
      (3)   A public or private educational facility classified as an
elementary, junior high or senior high;
      (4)   A public library;
      (5)   A public park;
      (6)   Another adult use-principal; and/or
      (7)   Any church or church related organization.
   (C)   No adult use - principal shall be located in the same building or upon
the same property as another adult use - principal.
   (D)   Adult use - principal shall adhere to the following signing
regulations in addition to the sign regulations hereof.
      (1)   Sign messages shall be generic in nature and shall only identify
the name of the business.
      (2)   Signs shall comply with the requirements of size and number for the
district in which they are located.
   (E)   Adult use - principal shall be limited to 7:00 a.m. to 12:30 a.m. for
its hours of operation. A differing time schedule may be approved by the City
Council, if it can be satisfactorily demonstrated by the operator to the City
Council that all of the following apply:
      (1)   No adversely impact or affect uses or activities within 350 feet;
      (2)   Will not result in increased policing or related service calls; or
      (3)   Is critical to the operation of the business.
(2001 Code, § 10.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.08 ADULT USE, ACCESSORY.
   Adult uses - accessory shall be permitted in all commercial districts;
provided, the accessory use conforms with the provisions of this section.
   (A)   Adult use - accessory shall:
      (1)   Comprise no more than 10% of the floor area of the establishment in
which it is located;
      (2)   Comprise no more than 20% of the gross receipts of the entire
business operation; and/or
      (3)   Not involve or include any activity except the sale or rental of
merchandise.
   (B)   Adult use - accessory shall be restricted from and prohibit access to
minors by the physical separation of such items from areas of general public
access.
      (1)   Movie rentals. Display areas shall be restricted from general view
and shall be located within a separate room, the access of which is in clear
view and under the control of the persons responsible for the operation.
      (2)   Magazines. Publications classified or qualifying as adult uses
shall not be physically accessible to minors and shall be covered with a
wrapper or other means to prevent display of any material other than the
publication title.
      (3)   Other use. Adult uses - accessory not specifically cited shall
comply with the intent of this section subject to the approval of the Zoning
Administrator.
   (C)   Adult use - accessory shall be prohibited from both internal and
external advertising and signing of adult materials and products.
(2001 Code, § 10.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   NOISE
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
§ 130.01 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   The city hereby adopts the county’s provisions concerning curfew for minors
and these provisions are incorporated herein as if set out in full.
(Res. 2016-10, passed 8-2-2016)
CHAPTER 131: NOISE
Section
   
131.01   General prohibition
   
131.02   Hourly restriction on certain operations
   
131.03   Enforcement
§ 131.01 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   General. No person shall make, or cause to be made, any distinctly and
loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers
the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety or welfare of any person or
precludes his or her enjoyment of property or affects his or her property’s
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
the following divisions.
   (B)   Horns, audible signaling devices and the like. No person shall sound
any audible signaling device on any vehicle, except as a warning of danger, as
required by M.S. § 169.68, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Exhaust. No person shall discharge the exhaust or permit the discharge
of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine,
motor boat, motor vehicle or snowmobile, except through a muffler or other
device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises therefrom and
complies with all applicable state laws and regulations. The use of engine
retarder brakes is prohibited within the city limits, except in an emergency.
The city shall erect “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” signs at the locations as it
deems appropriate and shall request erection of similar signs by the state’s
Department of Transportation upon state highways entering the city.
   (D)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so out of
repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling or other noises.
   (E)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems and the like. No person shall use
or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly audible manner as
to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any set, instrument, phonograph, machine or other device in a
manner as to be plainly audible from a vehicle, at the property line of a
structure or building in which it is located, in the hallway or apartment
adjacent, or at a distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a
structure or building, shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
   (F)   Participation in noisy parties or gatherings.
      (1)   No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of
people giving rise to noise, unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet or repose
of another person.
      (2)   When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating a
noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than the
owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disperse
immediately.
      (3)   No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a police
officer to do so.
      (4)   Every owner or tenant of the premises who has knowledge of the
disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance is
stopped.
   (G)   Schools, churches, hospitals and the like. No person shall create any
excessive noise on a street, alley or public grounds adjacent to any school,
institution of learning or church when the noise unreasonably interferes with
the work within the institution or disturbs or unduly annoys its occupants when
conspicuous signs indicate the presence of the institution.
(2001 Code, § 14.010) (Ord. 14, passed 8-4-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 HOURLY RESTRICTION ON CERTAIN OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawnmower,
power hedge clipper, chainsaw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or other
similar domestic power maintenance equipment between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this provision.
   (B)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric-, diesel- or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
(2001 Code, § 14.010) (Ord. 14, passed 8-4-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this chapter. The
Police Department may inspect private premises, other than private residences,
and shall make all reasonable efforts to prevent violations.
(2001 Code, § 14.010) (Ord. 14, passed 8-4-2014)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   LAND USE PLAN
      
151.   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTIES
      
152.   STREETS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS AND REDEVELOPMENT
      
154.   ZONING
      
155.   CANNABIS BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 150: LAND USE PLAN
Section
   
150.01   Adoption by reference
§ 150.01 ADOPTING BY REFERENCE.
   The city’s Land Use Plan is hereby adopted by reference and incorporated
herein as if set out in full.
(Ord. passed - -1979)
CHAPTER 151: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTIES
Section
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Scope
   
151.04   Discrimination and private contracts
   
151.05   Definitions
   
151.06   Application for license; action
   
151.07   Fees
   
151.08   Transfer of property ownership
   
151.09   License denial, suspension or revocation
   
151.10   Conduct on licensed premises
   
151.11   Residential district
   
151.12   Inspections
   
151.13   Outstanding city invoices
   
151.14   Parking
   
151.15   Minimum standards
   
151.16   Posting
   
151.17   Authority, enforcement and responsibility
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be referred to as the “Residential Rental Property
Licensing Ordinance”.
(2001 Code, § 13.010) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to provide safeguards to protect life,
health, property and public welfare of the citizens of the city by regulating
the use, occupancy, location and upkeep of all residential rental property,
buildings and structures within the limits of the city. It is the desire of the
city to protect the interests of the property owner, the tenant, adjoining
property owners and the community as a whole.
   (B)   Objectives of this chapter include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Protect and preserve the stability of residential areas of the
city;
      (2)   The prevention and correction of housing conditions that adversely
affect life, safety, health and general well-being of residents;
      (3)   The prevention of blighted and deteriorating housing in the city;
      (4)   The prevention of overcrowding of rental dwellings; and
      (5)   The preservation of the value of land and buildings in the city.
(2001 Code, § 13.020) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 151.03 SCOPE.
   This chapter applies to all buildings which are rented in whole or in part
as a dwelling for persons other than the property owner’s family, as defined
herein. It includes accessory structures such as garages and storage buildings.
This chapter does not apply to the state’s Department of Health licensed rest
homes, convalescent facilities, nursing homes or hotels and motels.
(2001 Code, § 13.030) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 151.04 DISCRIMINATION AND PRIVATE CONTRACTS.
   This chapter shall be enforced in a non-discriminatory manner and
exclusively for the purpose of promoting public welfare. The city neither
expressly nor by implication assumes any obligations or liabilities respecting
the private rights or disputes, including those which involve or arise out of
the non-conformity of any premises in the city to the provisions of this
chapter.
(2001 Code, § 13.040) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 151.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person making application for a license under this chapter.
   APPLICATION. A form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be filled in and
completed by the applicant as his or her request for a license, furnished by
the city and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration for the
issuance of a license for the rental of residential property.
   CONTRACT FOR DEED. An executor contract for the conveyance of residential
real property under which the seller provides financing for the purchase of the
residential real property and under which the purchaser does or has a right to
go into possession.
   DWELLING. A building, wholly or partly used or intended to be used for
living, sleeping, purposes by human occupants, but not including rest homes,
convalescent homes, nursing homes, hotels or motels.
   DWELLING, DUPLEX/TWO-FAMILY. A building on one lot with one legal
description and one owner, which has been divided into two separate dwelling
units with two separate entrances, intended for occupancy by two separate
families.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for occupancy by
three or more families living independently of each other, with separate
housekeeping and separate cooking facilities for each.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling designed exclusively for
occupancy by one family.
   DWELLING UNIT. A room or group of rooms within a dwelling, forming a single
habitable unit.
   EGRESS. An arrangement of exit facilities to assure safe means of exit from
a building with specific dimensions as required by the city.
   FACILITIES. Licensed by the state as institutional occupancies or
dormitories. May also be called a RESIDENCE or RESIDENTIAL BUILDING.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage,
adoption and foster children.
   FAMILY (FUNCTIONAL). A collective group of unrelated persons residing in a
single dwelling unit, limited to not more than two adult persons, together with
their traditional family members of any age. (See also the definition for
UNRELATED PERSONS.)
   FAMILY (TRADITIONAL). One or more persons related by blood or marriage
residing in a single dwelling unit.
   HEARING EXAMINATION BOARD. Includes Rental Housing Inspector, Council
person, Zoning Administrator and Police Chief.
   INSPECT ON COMPLAINT. An inspection initiated by a complaint filed by the
owner, tenant, neighbor, concerned individual or the city.
   LICENSE. A document issued by the city to an applicant permitting him or her
to rent residential property.
   LICENSE FEE. The money paid to the city pursuant to an application and prior
to issuance of a license to rent residential property.
   LICENSEE. An applicant who, pursuant to his or her application, holds a
valid, current, unexpired and unrevoked license from the city allowing him or
her to rent residential property.
   MANAGER, CARETAKER. Any person who has charge, care or control of a
structure, or part thereof, in which rental dwelling units are let.
   NUISANCE. Any of the following:
      (1)   Any public nuisance known as common law or inequality
jurisprudence, or recognized by state statutes or the city’s ordinances;
      (2)   Any public nuisance which may prove detrimental to children whether
in a building, on the premises of a building or upon an unoccupied lot. This
includes, but is not limited to, any abandoned wells, shafts, basements or
excavations; abandoned refrigerators and other appliances; unlicensed or
inoperable motor vehicles; or any structurally unsound fences or structures; or
any lumber, garbage, rubbish or debris which may become a hazard for
inquisitive minors; and/or
      (3)   Any other activity or situation that is dangerous to human life,
detrimental to health or illegal.
   OCCUPANT. Any person residing in a dwelling or dwelling unit.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation or agent, who alone, jointly or
severally with others shall be in actual possession of, or have charge, care or
control of any dwelling or dwelling unit.
   RENT. Any consideration paid for the exclusive use of the dwelling unit,
including, but not limited to, money, services, or a combination thereof, paid
or delivered at fixed intervals periodically agreed upon.
   RENTAL HOUSING INSPECTOR. Person appointed by the city to inspect rental
property for compliance purposes.
   RENTAL PROPERTY. Living units rented on a month to month basis or greater.
The property may include single-family homes, duplexes, triplexes or multi-
family units. Exempt from the definition shall be motels, hotels, boarding
houses, bed and breakfast facilities and any facility exempt from city
regulation due to state or federal rules and regulations.
   RESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY. Real property occupied, or intended to be
occupied, by one to four families, if the purchaser intends to occupy the real
property. RESIDENTIAL REAL PROPERTY does not include property subject to a
family farm security loan or a transaction subject to M.S. §§ 583.20 to 583.32,
as they may be amended from time to time.
   UNRELATED PERSONS. Two or more individuals who are not related by blood,
marriage or adoption. For the purpose of this chapter, “related by blood” shall
mean whole or half relations between a common ancestor or descendent, husband,
wife, son, daughter, father, mother, brother, sister, uncle, aunt, niece,
nephew, stepchildren, legally adopted children, grandmother, grandfather, state
assigned foster children, first cousin or any combination of the above persons.
(2001 Code, § 13.050) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 151.06 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; ACTION.
   (A)   (1)   All persons or entities that own property in the city and that
desire to rent that property, must obtain from the city a valid rental license,
prior to renting or leasing any property. All applications shall be made in
writing on a form approved by the City Council and submitted to the City Clerk-
Treasurer. All applications must provide verification to the city that there
are no delinquent property taxes, special assessments, interest or city utility
fees due upon the property to be rented. If the applicant(s) is unable to
provide the certification, the rental license shall be denied. All applications
shall be accompanied by a fee as set by motion of the City Council. No property
may be rented or leased until the application has been approved.
      (2)   All applications shall be made at the office of the city’s Clerk-
Treasurer.
      (3)   All applications must be subscribed and sworn to and shall contain
the following information:
         (a)   The property owner’s name, mailing address, telephone number and
e-mail address. If there are multiple owners, or if the applicant is a
corporation, partnership or company, include the name, mailing address,
telephone number and e-mail address of all owners of the corporation’s
officers;
         (b)   Name, mailing address, telephone number and e-mail address of
the property manager or caretaker (if applicable);
         (c)   The name, mailing address, telephone number and e-mail address
of the primary contact person;
         (d)   A site plan that shows the number and location of proposed
parking stalls for the property;
         (e)   A floor plan, identifying all rental units by number;
         (f)   Names of all occupants of the rental property, the list shall be
updated upon any change;
         (g)   The rental property address and the name of the rental complex
(if applicable);
         (h)   Emergency (24-hour) phone number; and
         (i)   Other information, as the city may deem as necessary.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any applicant to intentionally make a false
statements or misleading statement or omission in regards to preparing this
application. Any false or misleading statement or omission in regards to
preparing this application. Any false or misleading statement or omission shall
work as an automatic refusal of the license and void any previously issued
license.
      (5)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall upon receipt of the completed
application, forward the application to the Rental Housing Inspector. The
Rental Housing Inspector may request that the applicant provide information to
verify the information in the application. Failure to cooperate with the Rental
Housing Inspector may be grounds for denial of application.
      (6)   The City Council may, by motion, approve an abbreviated manner and
forms for the renewal of the license.
(2001 Code, § 13.060)
   (B)   Upon receipt of a completed application and payment of the application
fee, the city shall commence with the investigation of the application and
evaluation of the property and proposed use, the investigation shall be
completed within 30 days, at which time the city shall either issue the license
or state in writing the reasons for the denial of the application. All
residential rental properties must obtain a license by September 1. All
licenses issued by the city shall be valid for a period of two years, unless
canceled or revoked pursuant to this chapter. Licenses may not be transferred
and if there is a change in ownership of the property, or the ownership of the
entity that owns the property, the license holder is required to apply for a
new license as required under division (A) above.
(2001 Code, § 13.070)
(Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.07 FEES.
   The rental license fee shall be established by motion of City Council.
(2001 Code, § 13.080) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 151.08 TRANSFER OF PROPERTY OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   No license issued under this chapter is transferable from one party to
another. If the property is sold or otherwise transferred to a new owner, the
new owner is required to apply for a rental license as provided for in §
151.06(A) of this chapter. If the property is owned by a partnership or
corporation and more than a 10% interest in the property has been transferred
to a party that was not previously disclosed on the application for rental
license, then the license holder shall apply for a new license as provided
under §
151.06(A) of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever any real estate is sold for a consideration in excess of
$1,000, whether by warranty deed, quitclaim deed, contract for deed or any
other method of sale, the grantor, grantee or the legal agent of either shall
file a certificate of value with the County Auditor in the county in which the
property is located when the deed or other document is presented for recording.
Contract for deeds are subject to recording under § 507.235, subd. 1, of M.S. §
272.115, as it may be amended from time to time. A copy of the contract for
deed will have to be submitted to the city within 30 days after filing with the
County Recorder’s office, per M.S. § 507.235 subd. 2, as it may be amended from
time to time. Failure will result in the violation of the rental code.
(2001 Code, § 13.090) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 151.09 LICENSE DENIAL, SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Notification. Prior to denial, suspension or revocation, the licensee
(or his or her designated agent) and all occupants of units potentially subject
to denial, suspension or revocation, shall be notified in writing pursuant to
the terms of this chapter. Any applicant whose license is denied, or any
licensee whose license is suspended or revoked, shall be entitled to appeal and
to a hearing on the appeal. Notice of the hearing shall be provided to all
interested parties at least 20 days prior to a hearing.
   (B)   Hearing. A hearing shall be held by the Hearing Examination Board. The
hearing shall be conducted to meet the licensee and occupant’s due process
rights, including:
      (1)   Allowing interested parties, or their attorneys, the right to
present evidence, witnesses and to cross-examine all adverse witnesses; and
      (2)   Making a complete record of all proceedings, including findings of
fact and conclusions of law.
   (C)   Suspension or revocation.
      (1)   Every operating license issued under the provisions of this chapter
is subject to suspension or revocation for the entire rental dwelling or for
individual rental units, by the City Council, should the licensee fail to
properly license and maintain the rental unit.
      (2)   A rental license may also be denied, suspended or revoked for any
of the following reasons:
         (a)   The license and/or license application was procured by
misrepresentation of material facts, by fraud, by deceit or by bad faith;
         (b)   The applicant or one acting on his or her behalf made oral or
written misstatements or misrepresentations of material facts in or
accompanying the application; and/or
         (c)   The activities of the licensee or the failure to adequately
maintain the property to comply with Health, Safety, Building Codes and §
151.10(A) through (F) of this chapter.
   (D)   Effect of denial, suspension or revocation. In the event a rental
license is denied, suspended or revoked by the City Council, it shall be
unlawful for the owner or his or her duly authorized agent to thereafter permit
any new occupancies of vacant or thereafter vacated rental units, until such
time as a valid rental license is restored to the affected units.
   (E)   No occupancy. If a license is revoked, suspended, denied or not
renewed by the City Council, it shall be unlawful for the owner, or manager, to
thereafter permit the occupancy of the unlicensed rental dwelling of the unit.
The city shall send and post a copy of the City Council action on the rental
dwelling(s) or units(s) impacted by action in order to prevent any further
occupancy. No person shall reside in, occupy or cause to be occupied any
unlicensed rental dwelling or unit. If the rental, dwelling(s) or unit(s) is
occupied at the time the licenses is revoked, suspended, denied or not renewed,
then the owner, or manager, shall inform, the tenant(s) that the tenant(s) have
30 days from the date of the City Council action to vacate. Occupation of the
rental dwelling or unit after those 30 days is unlawful.
   (F)   Failure to obtain a license. If it is determined that a rental unit is
being operated without a valid license, an immediate inspection shall be
conducted. Contracts for deed are subject to recording under M.S. § 507.235,
subd. 1, a it may be amended from time to time. Any property that has been
issued a rental license or that is subject to this chapter, shall also file
with the city a copy of the contract for deed within 30 days of the transfer of
the property. Failure to file the notice with the city will result in a
violation of the Rental Code.
(2001 Code, § 13.100) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 151.10 CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to take appropriate
action following conduct by occupant(s) or guest(s) of the occupant(s) which is
in violation of any of the following statutes:
      (1)   M.S. §§ 609.75 through 609.76, as they may be amended from time to
time, which prohibit gambling;
      (2)   M.S. §§ 609.321 through 609.324, as they may be amended from time
to time, which prohibit prostitution and acts relating thereto;
      (3)   M.S. §§ 152.01 through 152.025 and 152.027, subd. 1 and 2, as they
may be amended from time to time, which prohibit the unlawful sale, possession
of and manufacturing of controlled substances;
      (4)   M.S. § 340A.401, as it may be amended from time to time, which
regulates the unlawful sale of alcoholic beverages;
      (5)   M.S. § 609.33, as it may be amended from time to time, which
prohibits owning, leasing, operating, managing, maintaining or conducting a
disorderly house, or inviting or attempting to invite others to visit or remain
in a disorderly house; and
      (6)   M.S. § 609.72, as it may be amended from time to time, which
prohibits disorderly conduct.
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the licensee to take appropriate
action to curb inappropriate actions of the tenant, occupants or guests of the
property which are in violation of any ordinance of the city, including, but
not limited to, noise ordinances and nuisance property ordinances.
   (C)   The Police Chief, or his or her designee, shall be responsible for
enforcing and the administration of this section.
   (D)   Upon determination by the Police Chief, or his or her designee, that a
licensed premises or a dwelling unit was involved in a violation of division
(A) above, the Police Chief shall notify the licensee by certified mail of the
violation and direct the licensee to take steps to prevent further violations.
A copy of the notice shall be sent by first class mail to the occupant of the
property.
   (E)   Upon a second violation within 12 months of division (A) above,
involving a guest or an occupant of a dwelling unit, the notice provided under
this section shall require the licensee to submit a written report of the
action taken to prevent further violations on the premises. This written report
shall be submitted to the Police Chief within five days of the request of the
report and shall detail all actions taken by the licensee in response to all
notices regarding violations of this section within the preceding 12 months. If
the licensee fails to comply with the requirements of division (A) above, the
rental dwelling license for the individual dwelling may be denied, revoked,
suspended or not renewed. An action to deny, revoke, suspend or not renew a
license under this section shall be initiated by the Hearing Examination Board
at the request of the Police Chief.
   (F)   If a third or subsequent violation of division (A) above involving a
guest of or an occupant of a dwelling unit occurs within 12 months after any
two previous instances for which notices were sent to the licensee regarding
the same dwelling unit, the rental dwelling license for the individual rental
unit, may be denied, revoked, suspended or not renewed. An action to deny,
revoke, suspend or not renew a license under this section shall be initiated by
the Hearing Examination Board at the request of the Police Chief.
   (G)   No adverse license action shall be imposed if the violation to this
section occurred during the pendency of eviction proceedings (unlawful
detainer) or within 30 days of notice given by the licensee to an occupant to
vacate the premises, where the violation was related to conduct by that
occupant, other occupants or the occupant’s guests. Eviction proceedings shall
not be a bar to adverse license action, however, unless they are diligently
pursued by the licensee. Further, an action to deny, revoke, suspend, nor not
renew a license based upon violations of this section may be postponed or
discontinued at any time if it appears that the licensee has taken appropriate
measures which will prevent further violations to division (A) above.
   (H)   A determination that the licensed premises or dwelling unit has been
used in violation of division (A) above shall be made by the City Council upon
substantial evidence to support such a determination. It shall not be necessary
that criminal charges be brought to support a determination of violation to
division (A) above, nor shall the facts of dismissal or acquittal of criminal
charges operate as a bar to adverse license action under this section.
(2001 Code, § 13.110) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 151.11 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   State-licensed residential facility. State-licensed residential
facilities are allowed in all residential districts pursuant to state statutes,
as amended from time to time. The regulation of residential occupancies in this
section shall not apply to a state-licensed residential facility.
   (B)   Residential occupancies. Residential occupancies of single- and two-
family dwellings in the R-1 Zoning Districts shall be limited to family-
functional and family-traditional, as defined by this chapter. Family-
functional and family-traditional may have one additional person residing with
them for non-rental purposes or for the purpose of providing a housekeeping or
personal service for the resident(s) therein.
   (C)   Non-conforming uses. Residential rental properties not in compliance
with this chapter as of the effective date of the ordinance may continue in the
non-conforming use; provided that, if the property ceases to continue in the
non-conforming use for a period of 12 consecutive months, the right of
continuing non-conformity will end.
   (D)   R-1 Zoning Districts. It is the desire of the city to maintain the
single-family, owner-occupied character of the R-1 zoned districts. As such,
the City Council has determined that, in order to protect the character of
these neighborhoods, it must restrict the number of rental properties that will
be allowed in the same area. Therefore, no two R-1 rental properties may be
located within 250 feet of each other. The 250 feet shall be measured from the
property line of any currently licensed rental property.
(2001 Code, § 13.120) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 151.12 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   New renewal license. Applications for a residential rental property
license will be made to the city’s Clerk-Treasurer. The completed application
will be forwarded to the Zoning Administrator who shall review the application
for conflicts with zoning ordinances and parking requirements. If approved, the
application will be assigned to the appointed Rental Housing Inspector for
inspection on compliance with this code and any other applicable statute,
ordinance, code or regulation. A rental license will be issued after the
property is in full compliance with all requirements. The property may not be
rented until final approval as evidenced by the issuance of the license.
   (B)   Inspection upon complaint. Any residential property within the city is
subject to investigation upon complaint by any citizen or city employee.
Complaints shall be investigated in accordance with the following schedule.
      (1)   All complaints shall be investigated within 72 hours of receipt by
the city’s Rental Housing Inspector, or his or her designee, shall inspect the
property to verify the existence of conditions in violation of this chapter or
any other applicable statute, ordinance, code or regulation.
      (2)   A tenant may, at any time, request an inspection of the rental
property in which he or she currently resides. A fee for the inspection shall
be imposed on the tenant only if the hearing examiner board finds, by a
preponderance of the evidence that the request was made in bad faith.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for failure to allow inspection. The City
Council shall establish administrative penalties for intentional failure, or
failure without good cause; to appear for scheduled rental inspections or re-
inspections or for intentional avoidance or delay in scheduling inspection(s)
when requested. Administrative penalties may also be imposed for failure to
correct code violations after proper notice. Administrative penalties are in
addition to any criminal charges and/or fines.
   (D)   Confidentiality of complaintant’s name(s). The identities of any
person filing a complaint about violations of state law, or local ordinance,
concerning the use of real property, and any information that would identify
the person, is classified as confidential under M.S. § 13.44, as it may be
amended from time to time. No employee or agent of the city shall release or
reveal the information, except by court order.
(2001 Code, § 13.130) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.13 OUTSTANDING CITY INVOICES.
   (A)   The property owner will be required to pay all outstanding invoices
from the city associated with the enforcement of this chapter. Cost and fees
will be determined by the city fee schedule and a per hour basis of the
contracted Rental Housing Inspector’s hourly fee. Payment will be considered
past due 30 days after the date of the invoice.
   (B)   Any outstanding bills or invoices related to the enforcement of this
chapter will have a lien against the property being serviced and the city’s
Clerk-Treasurer shall certify to the County Auditor’s office the amount of the
delinquent balance, which amount shall be added to taxes and assessments due
and payable against the property.
(2001 Code, § 13.140) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 151.14 PARKING.
   (A)   General. All new rental units licensed after the effective date of
this chapter shall provide off-street parking according to the following:
      (1)   One- and two-family dwellings in R-1 Zoning District: for rental
units licensed after the effective date of this chapter, two off-street parking
stalls shall be provided for each dwelling unit; and
      (2)   One- and two-family dwellings in R-1 Zoning District: for rental
properties licensed after the effective date of this chapter, one off-street
parking stall shall be provided for each bedroom in a dwelling.
   (B)   Location and design of off-street parking. All new rental units
licensed after the effective date of this chapter shall provide required off-
street parking in conformance with the following.
      (1)   All required off-street parking spaces for single-family and two-
family dwellings shall be provided on the same lot as the dwelling
      (2)   Off-street parking spaces required for multi-family dwellings
(three-family or more) may be provided on a lot located not more than 500 feet
from the main building; provided that, the off-premises parking lot is held
under the same ownership or leasehold interest as the lot on which the multi-
family dwelling is located.
      (3)   Private and public sidewalks, boulevards and other portions of the
public right-of-way shall not be used to satisfy off-street parking
requirements.
      (4)   For one- and two-family dwellings, all off-street parking stalls,
enclosed or unenclosed, shall have minimum dimensions of ten feet by 18 feet,
exclusive of required drives and accesses.
      (5)   For a single-family dwelling, the unenclosed parking space located
immediately adjacent to the entrance of a garage may be considered one off-
street parking space provided the space has a minimum dimension of ten feet by
18 feet and conforms to all other regulations. The enclosed garage space may
also be considered an off-street parking stall for the purpose of satisfying
the parking requirements; provided, the enclosed parking space has a minimum
dimension of ten feet by 18 feet.
      (6)   All newly constructed rental properties shall have their driveway
and parking surface hard surfaced within one year after issuance of a new
rental license. Acceptable hard surfacing does not include recycled asphalt or
recycled concrete. Failure to hard surface within one-year shall result in the
revocation of the rental license. Existing rental property(s) at the time of
this chapter’s adoption are required to provide adequately designed parking for
vehicular weight that is aesthetically appealing.
      (7)   Notwithstanding any of the above or as otherwise permitted in this
chapter tandem parking arrangements shall not be allowed in order to satisfy
the parking requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Non-conforming off-street parking. Rental units in operation prior to
the adoption of this chapter shall be required to provide additional off-street
parking for the purpose of satisfying the requirements of this section, if
adequate off-street parking spaces are not presently provided for the
occupants. This requirement shall only apply to rental properties containing
yard areas that may be used for additional parking in conformance with the
location and design regulations of division (B) above.
(2001 Code, § 13.150) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 151.15 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   (A)   Interior standards.
      (1)   Bathroom facilities and fixtures shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition. At least one bathroom with a functioning flush-type toilet
must be provided. A functioning lavatory sink shall be provided. A functioning
bathtub or shower shall be provided.
      (2)   No space designated as a bathroom shall be used as a passage way
between two habitable rooms. Kitchen facilities must be provided, including a
working sink and water supply. Space for a conventional stove must be
available. Space for a conventional refrigerator must be available.
   (B)   Interior in general.
      (1)   The dwelling must have safe and functioning heating facilities in
all habitable rooms and bathrooms.
      (2)   The dwelling must have an adequate heated water system. All
stairways must be structurally safe.
      (3)   A safe and adequate smoke detector(s) must be provided and carbon
monoxide detectors as required by law.
      (4)   The dwelling must have at least one room of not less than 150
square feet of floor area. A combination of rooms connected by an opening(s) of
at least five feet may be counted as a room. An example would be when a living
room and a dining room are connected by an archway.
      (5)   All other habitable rooms, except the kitchen or efficiency
apartments, shall not have less than 70 square feet of floor area.
      (6)   No rental unit may be over-occupied by more persons than reasonable
conventions in health and safety may allow, where more than two persons would
have to occupy any bedroom, that room must allow for an extra 40 square feet of
space per occupant in excess of the two initial occupants. No room(s) other
than a conventional bedroom may be designated by the owner or tenants as a
“bedroom”. The minimum size of a bedroom shall be 70 square feet.
      (7)   Each space designated as a habitable room by the owner shall
contain at least one usable window as a means of ventilation or shall have an
effective alternative means of room ventilation.
      (8)   Each habitable room shall contain at least two conventional
electrical outlets.
      (9)   No dwelling shall foster a situation where rodent or pest
infestation is a problem or a potential problem. Examples of this may include,
but are not limited to: actual evidence of pests; storage of material that
might provide a habitat for pests; unsafe storage of items that might become
food for pests.
      (10)   The dwelling must be designated “fit for human habitation”.
   (C)   Exterior standards.
      (1)   The foundation exterior walls and exterior roof shall be water-
tight, rodent-proof and maintained in good condition. Every window, exterior
door and hatchway shall be substantially tight and maintained in good
condition. The foundation shall adequately support the building at all points.
Exterior walls shall be maintained and kept free from dilapidation by cracks,
tears or breaks or from deteriorated plaster, stucco, brick, wood or other
material that is extensive and gives evidence of long neglect. The protective
surface on exterior walls of a building above ground level shall be maintained
in good condition, so as to provide a sufficient covering and protection of the
structural surface underneath against its deterioration.
      (2)   Without limiting the generality of this section, a protective
surface of a building shall be deemed to be out of repair if:
         (a)   The protective surface is paint, which is blistered to an extent
of more than 25% of the area of any plane, wall or other area including window
trim, cornice members, porch railing and other areas;
         (b)   More than 10% of the pointing of any chimney or 25% of the
pointing of any brick or stone wall is loose or has fallen out of place;
         (c)   More than 25% of the finish coat of a stucco wall is worn
through or chipped away; or
         (d)   Any exterior surface or plane required to be repaired under the
provisions of this section shall be repaired in its entirety. If a weather-
resistant surface such as brick, plaster or metal is covered with paint that is
more than 25% blistered, it shall be repaired unless the defective paint
covering is removed in its entirety.
   (D)   Accessory structure maintenance. Accessory structures supplied by the
owner, operator or occupant on the premises of a dwelling shall be structurally
sound and maintained in good condition. Exterior walls, foundations, roofs and
exits of an accessory structure shall be maintained in accordance with the
standards set forth for in division (C)(1) above.
   (E)   Fence maintenance. Fences shall be maintained in good condition both
in appearance and in structure. Wood material, other than decay resistant
varieties, shall be protected against decay by use of paint or other
preservatives. If 25% or more of the painted surface of a fence is determined
by the Housing Inspector to be paint blistered, the surface shall be properly
scraped and repainted.
   (F)   Retaining walls. Retaining walls shall be kept in good condition,
repair and appearance. A retaining wall shall be deemed out of repair when it
has substantially shifted or slumped out of its original design position.
   (G)   Yard cover. All exposed areas surrounding (or within) a principle or
accessory use, including street boulevards which are not devoted to parking,
drives, sidewalks, patios or other such uses, shall be landscaped with grass,
shrubs, trees or other ornamented landscape material and shall be maintained to
prevent erosion from wind and/or water runoff. Such shall be maintained in good
condition and free of noxious weeds. Grass and weeds may not exceed six inches
in height at any time.
   (H)   Gutters and downspouts. Existing gutters, leaders and downspouts shall
be maintained in good working condition as to provide proper drainage of storm
water. In no case shall storm water be channeled into sanitary sewer system.
Neither shall storm water, ice or snow be directed into, or channeled across
walkways or streets where it is likely to be a hazard to life or health.
   (I)   Exterior lighting. For multiple family dwellings, all exterior parking
areas shall be provided with an average, maintained, horizontal illumination of
six-tenths foot candles. Parking lot illumination shall not be directed onto a
public street or adjoining property.
   (J)   Snow and ice removal. The owner of a dwelling shall be responsible for
cleaning and maintaining all walks, drives and parking areas and kept free of
any ice or any snow accumulation within 36 hours of the storm’s completion.
   (K)   Grading and drainage. Every yard, court or passage on the premises on
which a dwelling stands must be maintained in a manner to prevent the excessive
accumulation of standing water which constitutes a detriment to the health and
safety of the occupants or the general public.
   (L)   Stairways, porches and balconies. Every stairway, inside or outside of
a dwelling, and every porch or balcony, shall be kept in safe condition and in
good maintenance. Every stairwell and flight of stairs shall be free of any
structural deterioration. Open guardrails and open stair railing on unenclosed
stairways shall have intermediate rails that do not allow a sphere four inches
in diameter to pass through. Every handrail and balustrade shall be firmly
fastened and maintained in good condition. A flight of stairs that has settled
out of its intended position or pulled away from the supporting or adjacent
structures enough to cause a hazard must be repaired. No flight of stairs shall
have rotten, loose or deteriorating supports. Stairways shall be capable of
supporting loads that normal use may cause to be placed thereon.
   (M)   Windows, doors and screens. Every window, exterior door and hatchway
shall be substantially tight and shall be kept in good condition. Every window,
other than a fixed window or storm window, shall be capable of being easily
opened. All windows on basement or first levels shall have proper locking
devices to prevent opening from the outside. All doors and window frames shall
be free of blistered paint and shall be maintained in good condition.
(2001 Code, § 13.160) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.16 POSTING.
   All licensees must post on the rental premises a copy of their rental
licenses.
(2001 Code, § 13.170) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 151.17 AUTHORITY, ENFORCEMENT AND RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Authority.
      (1)   The Police Chief, or his or her designee, is hereby authorized and
directed to enforce all of the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The city’s Clerk-Treasurer, or his or her designee, shall have the
power to render interpretations of this chapter and to adopt and enforce rules
and supplemental regulations in order to clarify the application of its
provisions. The interpretations, rules and regulations shall be in conformity
with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
   (B)   Right of entry.
      (1)   When it is necessary to make an inspection to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, or when the city has reasonable cause to believe
that there exists in a building or upon a premises a condition which is
contrary to or in violation of this chapter, he or she may enter the building
or premises at reasonable times to inspect or to perform the duties imposed by
this chapter; provided that, if the building or premises is occupied that
credentials will be presented to the occupant and entry requested. If the
building or premises is unoccupied, he or she shall first make a reasonable
effort to locate the owner or other person having charge or control of the
building or premises and request entry. If entry is refused, the city’s Housing
Inspector(s) shall have recourse to the remedies provided by law to secure
entry.
      (2)   Exception: licensed rental properties are subject to inspection for
purposed of this chapter at any time without requirement of warrant.
   (C)   Responsibilities defined.
      (1)   Owners remain liable for violations of duties imposed by this
chapter even though an obligation is also imposed on the occupants of the
building and even though the owner has, by agreement, imposed on the occupant
the duty of furnishing required equipment or of complying with this chapter.
      (2)   Buildings, structures and parts thereof shall be maintained in a
safe and sanitary condition. The owner or the owner’s designated agent shall be
responsible for the maintenance. To determine compliance with this division
(C), the building may be re-inspected.
      (3)   Owners, in addition to being responsible for maintaining the
buildings in a sound structural condition, shall be responsible for keeping
that part of the building or premises which the owner occupies or controls in a
clean, sanitary and safe condition, including the shared or public areas in a
building containing two or more dwelling units.
      (4)   Owners shall, when required by this chapter or any other applicable
code, ordinance, regulation or statute, furnish and maintain the approved
sanitary facilities required, and shall furnish and maintain approved devices,
equipment or facilities for the prevention of insect and rodent infestation
and, when infestation has taken place, shall be responsible for the
extermination of any insects, rodents or other pests when the extermination is
not specifically made the responsibility of the occupant by law or ruling.
      (5)   Occupants of a dwelling unit, in addition to being responsible for
keeping it in a sanitary and safe condition that part of the dwelling or
dwelling unit or premises which they occupy and control, shall properly dispose
of their rubbish, garbage and other organic waste in a manner required by this
chapter, or any other applicable code, ordinance, regulation or statute.
      (6)   Occupants shall, when required by this chapter, or any other
applicable code, ordinance, regulation or statute, furnish and maintain
approved devices, equipment or facilities necessary to keep their premises safe
and sanitary.
(2001 Code, § 13.190) (Ord. 13, passed 6-2-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: STREETS AND PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Drainage pipes or grates at curb line
   
152.02   Damage to public property
   
152.03   Local improvement policy
   
152.04   Boulevards
Street Excavations
   
152.15   Permit required
   
152.16   Permit fee
   
152.17   Bond required
   
152.18   Permit denial
   
152.19   General regulations
   
152.20   Refilling excavations
   
152.21   Map of subsurface installations
Snow and Ice Removal from Sidewalks
   
152.35   Duty of owners and occupants
   
152.36   Removal by city
   
152.37   Personal liability
Repair of Sidewalks
   
152.50   Duty of owner
   
152.51   Notification
   
152.52   Repair by city
   
152.53   Personal liability
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01 DRAINAGE PIPES OR GRATES AT CURB LINE.
   (A)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city with drainage
pipes or grates at the curb line are required to keep the pipes or grates in
good repair and free from debris. No owner shall allow any grass clippings or
leaf piles in city streets, along curb lines or near drainage pipes or grates.
   (B)   Notification. If it is found that any drainage pipe or grate debris
obstructs the flow of water in the gutter, the Council shall notify, by
certified mail or by personal service, the record owner of the property. The
notice shall order the owner to have the accumulated debris removed from the
drainage pipe or grate with seven days of the notification. The notice shall
state that if the owner fails to do so, the city will do so, and the expense
must be paid by the owner; and, if unpaid, it will be made a special assessment
against the property concerned.
   (C)   Removal by city. If the accumulated debris is not removed within seven
days after receipt of the notice, the city may remove it. The city’s Clerk-
Treasurer shall keep a record showing the cost of the removal by each parcel.
   (D)   Personal liability. The owner of the property with a drainage pipe or
grate from which the city removed accumulated debris shall be personally liable
for the cost of the service. The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare a bill
and mail it to the owner, with the cost of the service being immediately due.
Any amount unpaid by September 1 will be made a special assessment against the
property in accordance with M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(2001 Code, § 6.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.02 DAMAGE TO PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   It is illegal to damage public roads, gutters, grates or any other
property in any way.
   (B)   Whoever drives a vehicle weighing an excess of the maximum weight
permitted, or drives a contrivance that damages the surface or structure of a
street or highway, shall be liable for the damage. When the driver is not the
owner of the vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but operates, drives or
moves the same with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the
owner and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any damage.
   (C)   Any person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by
that act damages any public property shall be liable for the damage amount,
which amount shall be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67,
as it may be amended from time to time.
(2001 Code, § 6.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.03 LOCAL IMPROVEMENT POLICY.
   The City Council may establish a local improvement policy to outline the
procedures for construction and financing local improvements when a portion of
the cost is to be defrayed by special assessments against benefitting property
owners.
(2001 Code, § 6.06)
§ 152.04 BOULEVARDS.
   (A)   Any part of any street may be improved as a boulevard or park area if
the width and use of the streets permit the improvements. No shrub, bush,
hedge, flower, vine or plant shall be planted or sown upon any boulevard;
provided that, grass or any tree other than a prohibited species may be planted
upon any boulevard. No tree shall be planted closer than 33 feet from any other
tree standing in any street, except as authorized in writing by the City
Council.
   (B)   (1)   Any owner of land abutting any boulevard may upon first
obtaining a permit from the City Council fertilize, prune, spray, plant or
remove any tree in that part of the boulevard to which the property abuts.
      (2)   Every permit shall specify the activity permitted and any condition
to which the permit is subject.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person not acting under authorization from
the city to break, injure, mutilate, kill or destroy any tree or shrub on any
street, park or other property owned by the city.
      (4)   The city shall have the right to plant, trim, spray, preserve or
fertilize any tree, plant or shrub on any street, alley, park or other property
owned by the city or may remove or cause to be removed any plant or tree which
is unsafe or may be injurious to any sewer or other public improvement or is
infested with any fungus, insect or other pest.
(2001 Code, § 6.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 152.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, except an authorized city employee or a contractor performing
work under a contract with the city, shall make any excavation in a street,
alley, sidewalk or public ground without first having secured a permit from the
city.
(2001 Code, § 6.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.16 PERMIT FEE.
   The excavation permit fee shall be set annually by the City Council. No fee
shall be required for an excavation made pursuant to a permit for sewer and
water construction.
(2001 Code, § 6.01)
§ 152.17 BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Any applicant, except a public utility corporation or a bonded
plumber, shall file with the city a corporate surety bond, cash deposit or
certified check in an amount established by the city, conditioned that the
applicant will:
      (1)   Perform work in connection with the excavation in accordance with
applicable ordinances and regulations;
      (2)   Indemnify the city and hold it harmless from all damage caused in
the execution of the work; and
      (3)   Pay all costs and damages suffered by the city by reason of the
failure of the applicant to observe the terms of applicable ordinances and
regulations or because of negligence in the execution of the work.
   (B)   The bond shall be approved as to form and legality by the City
Attorney prior to approval of the permit.
   (C)   Any applicant except a public utility corporation shall furnish proof
that the applicant has in existence an insurance policy protecting the
applicant from liability to the public, including the city, to an amount equal
to the maximum claim the city might be required to pay under M.S. Ch. 466, as
it may be amended from time to time.
(2001 Code, § 6.01)
§ 152.18 PERMIT DENIAL.
   Failure to comply with the conditions of the provisions of this subchapter
shall be grounds for denial of the present or future permits.
(2001 Code, § 6.01)
§ 152.19 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   Street openings shall be made in a manner that will cause the least
inconvenience to the public. Provision shall be made for the passage of water
along the gutters and at least one-half of the traveled portion of the street
shall be left open and in good condition for the safe passage of vehicles. Open
excavations shall be guarded with substantial barriers and marked with red
flags and at night with red devices. Pipes or mains exposed to freezing
temperatures shall be protected so as to prevent freezing. Any person
responsible for exposing a city main or pipe so that it might be damaged by
freezing shall be liable to the city for all damages cause by the freezing and
all damages sustained by others by the freezing for which the city may be
liable.
(2001 Code, § 6.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.20 REFILLING EXCAVATIONS.
   Every street excavation shall be refilled as soon as possible after the work
is completed and paving, sidewalks and appurtenances shall be replaced in at
least as good condition as before the excavation to the satisfaction of the
city. All dirt and debris shall be removed immediately. Any person who fails to
comply with these requirements within 24 hours after notice from the city shall
be liable to the city for the full cost incurred by the city to remedy the
defect and restore the street, sidewalk, alley or public ground to its proper
condition. The cost shall be an obligation of the surety on the bond of the
applicant.
(2001 Code, § 6.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.21 MAP OF SUBSURFACE INSTALLATIONS.
   The maintenance supervisor shall maintain a map showing the location of all
utility and other installations made beneath the surface of any public street,
grounds or right-of-way. The information on the map shall be sufficiently
complete and accurate to permit anyone making an excavation in a public place
having any underground installation to avoid damage to any existing underground
installation and to properly locate them. Any new underground facilities shall
be recorded on the map as soon as practicable upon the issuance of an
excavation permit or the completion of a contract for the installation of city
underground installations.
(2001 Code, § 6.01)
SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL FROM SIDEWALKS
§ 152.35 DUTY OF OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS.
   The owner and the occupant of any property adjacent to a public sidewalk
shall use diligence to keep the walk safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant
shall allow snow and ice to remain on the walk longer than 48 hours after its
deposit.
(2001 Code, § 6.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.36 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   The city may cause removal from all public sidewalks all snow and ice as
soon as possible beginning 48 hours after any matter has been deposited or
after the snow has ceased to fall. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record
showing the cost of the removal adjacent to each parcel.
(2001 Code, § 6.02)
§ 152.37 PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   The owner of property adjacent to a public sidewalk from which the city
removed snow and ice shall be personally liable for the cost of the service.
The City Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare a bill and mail it to the owner, with
the cost of the service being immediately due. Any amount unpaid by September 1
following the notice will be made a special assessment against the property in
accordance with M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to time.
(2001 Code, § 6.02)
REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS
§ 152.50 DUTY OF OWNER.
   (A)   The owner of any property within the city abutting a public sidewalk
shall keep the sidewalk in repair and safe for pedestrians.
   (B)   Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard specifications
approved by the Council and on file in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(2001 Code, § 6.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.51 NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   If any sidewalk abutting on private property is unsafe and in need of
repairs, the Council shall notify, by certified mail or by personal service,
the record owner of the property.
   (B)   (1)   The notice shall order the owner to have the sidewalk or alley
repaired and made safe within 30 days.
      (2)   The notice shall state that if the owner fails to do so, the city
will do so, the owner must pay the expense and, if unpaid, it will be made a
special assessment against the property concerned.
(2001 Code, § 6.03)
§ 152.52 REPAIR BY CITY.
   If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within 30 days of receipt of the
notice, the City Council shall order the work done by contract in accordance
with law. The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record showing the total cost
of the repair attributable to each lot or parcel of property.
(2001 Code, § 6.03)
§ 152.53 PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   The owner of property adjacent to a public sidewalk which the city has
repaired shall be personally liable for the cost of each repair. The City
Clerk-Treasurer shall prepare a bill and mail it to the owner, with the cost of
the repair being immediately due. Any amount unpaid by September 1 will be made
a special assessment against the property in accordance with M.S. Ch. 429, as
it may be amended from time to time.
(2001 Code, § 6.03)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS AND REDEVELOPMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Purpose
   
153.003   Jurisdiction
   
153.004   Application
   
153.005   Metes and bounds
   
153.006   Approvals necessary to acceptance of subdivision plats
   
153.007   Compliance
   
153.008   Zoning permits
   
153.009   Rules and definitions
   
153.010   Administration, variances and validity
   
153.011   Violations
Platting Procedures
   
153.025   Pre-application meeting
   
153.026   Preliminary plat approval
   
153.027   Preliminary plat requirements
   
153.028   Preliminary plat optional requirements
   
153.029   Final plat approval
   
153.030   Final plat requirements
Design Standards
   
153.045   General
   
153.046   General street design
   
153.047   Easements
   
153.048   Blocks
   
153.049   Lots
Required Improvements
   
153.060   General
   
153.061   Monuments
   
153.062   Streets
   
153.063   Utilities
   
153.064   Drainage and storm sewers
   
153.065   Water facilities
   
153.066   Sewerage facilities
   
153.067   Driveway entrances
   
153.068   Tree planting
   
153.069   Specifications and inspections
   
153.070   Financing
   
153.071   Review and inspection
   
153.072   Payment, improvement contract and financial guarantee
   
153.073   Construction plans and as-builts
Public Land Dedication
   
153.085   Reservation of land
   
153.086   Dedication of land
   
153.087   Cash in lieu of land
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision Ordinance of the City of
Good Thunder”.
(2001 Code, § 12.01)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority in M.S. § 462.358, as it may be amended from time
to time, this chapter is adopted for the following purposes:
   (A)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the municipality;
   (B)   To protect the character and the social and economic stability of all
parts of the municipality and to encourage the orderly and beneficial
development of all parts of the municipality;
   (C)   To protect and conserve the value of land throughout the municipality
and the value of buildings and improvements upon land and to minimize the
conflicts among the uses of land and buildings;
   (D)   To assure that public improvements such as streets, utilities and
drainage are constructed to satisfactory standards;
   (E)   To prevent the pollution of air, streams and ponds; further, to assure
the adequacy of drainage facilities; to safeguard the water table; and to
encourage the wise use and management of natural resources throughout the
municipality in order to preserve the integrity, stability and beauty of the
community and the value of land;
   (F)   To place the cost of improvements against those who benefit from the
benefits; and
   (G)   To provide common grounds of understanding between prospective
subdividers and municipal officials.
(2001 Code, § 12.02)
§ 153.003 JURISDICTION.
   The regulations governing plats and the subdivision of land shall apply to
all lands within the corporate limits of the city.
(2001 Code, § 12.02)
§ 153.004 APPLICATION.
   Any plat made for each subdivision lying within the jurisdiction of this
chapter shall be prepared, presented for approval and recorded as prescribed.
The regulations shall apply to the subdivision of a lot, tract or parcel of
land into two or more lots, tracts or other division of land for the purpose of
sale or building development, whether immediate or future, including the
resubdivision or replatting of land or lots.
(2001 Code, § 12.02)
§ 153.005 METES AND BOUNDS.
   No conveyance of land in which the land conveyed is described by metes and
bounds, or by reference to an unapproved registered land survey, shall be made
or recorded unless the parcel described in the conveyance:
   (A)   Was a separate parcel of record at the effective date of this chapter;
   (B)   Was the subject of a written agreement to convey that which was
entered into prior to the date;
   (C)   Was a separate parcel of not less than two and one-half acres in area
and 150 feet in width on the effective date of this chapter; or
   (D)   Is a single parcel of land not less than five acres in area and 300
feet in width.
(2001 Code, § 12.02)
§ 153.006 APPROVALS NECESSARY TO ACCEPTANCE OF SUBDIVISION PLATS.
   Before any plat shall be recorded or be of any validity, it shall have been
reviewed by the Planning Commission and approved by the City Council as having
fulfilled the requirements of this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 12.02)
§ 153.007 COMPLIANCE.
   No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled to be recorded in the county’s
Register of Deeds office or have any validity until the plat has been prepared,
approved and acknowledged in the manner prescribed by this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 12.02)
§ 153.008 ZONING PERMITS.
   No zoning permits will be issued by the city for the construction of any
building, structure or improvements to the land or to any lot in a subdivision,
until all requirements of this chapter have been fully complied with.
(2001 Code, § 12.02)
§ 153.009 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, words used in the present tense shall
include the future; words in the singular shall include the plural and the
plural the singular; and the word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
(2001 Code, § 12.03)
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way less than 30 feet in width which
affords secondary means of access to abutting property.
      BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines, waterways or
boundary lines of the corporate limits of the city.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The document or series of documents that represent
adopted policy of the city and which serve as official guides to the orderly
development of the city and its environs.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A short street having but one end open to traffic and the
other being permanently terminated to a vehicular turn-around.
      EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for
the purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities, including, but not
limited to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines,
storm sewer or storm drainage ways and gas lines.
      ENGINEER. An engineer or a duly authorized consultant appointed by the
City Council.
      FLOOD FRINGE AREA. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway.
      FLOODPLAIN. The continuous area adjacent to a watercourse, whose
elevation is equal to or below the elevation of the highest flood level of
record; and any land of higher elevation having an area of less than two acres,
which is completely surrounded by land having an elevation equal to or lower
than the elevation of the highest flood level of record.
      HIGHWAY, REGIONAL. Provides for through traffic movement at relatively
high speeds between municipalities. With few exceptions, intersections are at
grade and direct access to abutting property is discouraged.
      IMPROVEMENTS. Pavement, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, sewer and water
facilities, grading, street signs, street lighting, plantings and other items
for the welfare of property owners and/or the general public.
      LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings together with the open spaces as are required under this chapter and
having its principal frontage upon a street or officially approved place.
      PARKWAY. Provides for pleasure driving within an urban area along a
specially landscaped and protected roadway. PARKWAYS connect major points of
interest such a major parks, lakes, institutions and other scenic and
recreational areas. In many cases, PARKWAYS serve the function of collector
streets and occasionally serve as arterial streets.
      PEDESTRIAN WAY. The right-of-way across or within a block for use by
pedestrian traffic whether designated as a pedestrian way, greenway, crosswalk
or however otherwise designated.
      PLAT. A map, drawing or chart on which the subdivider’s plan of
subdivision is presented to the Planning Commission and City Council for
approval, and is ultimately recorded in the office of the County Recorder.
      PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts entered into between private parties and
constitute a restriction on the use of all private property within a
subdivision for the benefit of the property owners, and to provide mutual
protection against undesirable aspects of development which would tend to
impair stability of values.
      SITE MAP. A map showing existing conditions including all platted
parcels, streets, rights-of-way, easements and any predominant topography or
natural features such as lakes, wooded areas and the like.
      STREET, ARTERIAL. Provides for traffic movement to and from
municipalities and their surrounding rural areas, to and from regional highways
and collector streets and between major parts of an urban area. Intersections
are at grade and direct access to abutting property is secondary to traffic
movement.
      STREET, COLLECTOR. Distributes the internal traffic within an area of a
community, such as a residential neighborhood or industrial district, between
the arterial and local streets, provides access to abutting land. Continuity
should be sufficient to accommodate short trips, but discourage through
movement.
      STREET, HALF. A street having only one-half of its intended roadway width
developed to accommodate traffic.
      STREET, LOCAL. Provides for direct access to residential commercial,
industrial or other abutting property. Continuity is not imperative; all
through traffic movement should be discouraged.
      SUBDIVIDER or DEVELOPER. A person, firm or corporation undertaking the
subdivision or resubdivision of a tract or parcel of land according to the
requirements of this chapter. For purposes of this chapter, the terms are to be
considered to be interchangeable.
      SUBDIVISION.
         (a)   A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided
into two or more lots or parcels or the division of a lot, tract or parcel of
land into two or more lots, tracts or parcels for the purpose of transferring
ownership or building development, or if a new street is involved, any division
or development of a parcel of land.
         (b)   The term shall include resubdivision of land; provided, however,
that, the sale or exchange of small parcels of platted land to or between
adjoining property owners shall not be considered as a SUBDIVISION.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the application of the zoning ordinance to a
specific lot where, because of unique physical circumstances, strict
enforcement would cause an undue hardship or practical difficulties in the use
of land. VARIANCES shall be limited to height, bulk, density and yard
requirements.
(2001 Code, § 12.04)
§ 153.010 ADMINISTRATION, VARIANCES AND VALIDITY.
   (A)   Administration.
      (1)   Responsible official. It shall be the duty of the City Council to
see that the provisions of this chapter are properly enforced by the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   Zoning permit. No zoning permit shall be issued by any governing
official for the construction of any buildings, structures or improvements on
any land subdivided until all requirements of this chapter have been fully
complied with.
      (3)   Minor subdivisions. In the case of a subdivision of small size and
situated in a locality where conditions are well-defined, the City Council may
exempt the subdivider from complying with some of the requirements stipulated.
In the case of a request to divide a lot which is part of a recorded plat where
the division is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to an abutting lot or
to create two lots and the newly created property lot line will not cause the
remaining portion of the lot to be in violation of this chapter or Ch. 154 of
this code of ordinances, the division may be approved by the Council after
submission of a survey and legal description showing the original lot and the
proposed division.
   (B)   Variances. The Planning Commission may recommend a variance from the
provisions of this chapter when, in its opinion, undue hardship may result from
strict compliance. In recommending any variance, the Commission shall prescribe
any conditions that it deems necessary to or desirable for the protection of
the public interest. In making its findings, the Planning Commission shall take
into account the nature of the proposed use of land and existing use of land in
the vicinity; the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed
subdivision; and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity. No variance shall be granted unless the Planning
Commission finds:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner; or
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which property is
situated.
   (C)   Validity. Should any section or provision of this chapter be declared
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the decision shall not
affect the validity of the chapter as a whole or any part other than the part
so declared to be invalid.
(2001 Code, § 12.09)
§ 153.011 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Sale of lots from unrecorded plats. It shall be unlawful to sell,
trade or offer to sell or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of lot as a part
of or in conformity with any plan, plat or replat of any subdivision or area
located within the jurisdiction of this chapter unless the plan, plat or replat
shall have first been recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the
county.
   (B)   Receiving and recording unapproved flats. It shall be unlawful to
receive or record in any public office any plans, plats or replats of land laid
out in building lots and highways, streets, roads, alleys or other portions of
the same intended to be dedicated to public or private use or for the use of
purchasers or owners of lots fronting on or adjacent and located within the
jurisdiction of this chapter, unless approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Misrepresentation as to construction, supervision or inspection of
improvements. It shall be unlawful for any subdivider, person, firm or
corporation owning an addition or subdivision of land within the city to
represent that any improvement upon any of the highways, street or alleys of
the addition or subdivision or any sewer in the addition or subdivision has
been constructed according to the plans and specifications approved by the City
Council or has been supervised or inspected by the city when the improvements
have not been so constructed, supervised or inspected.
(2001 Code, § 12.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
PLATTING PROCEDURES
§ 153.025 PRE-APPLICATION MEETING.
   (A)   Prior to the submission of any plat for consideration by the Planning
Commission, the subdivider/developer shall meet with the Chairperson of the
Planning Commission or the City Planner to introduce himself or herself as a
potential subdivider. He or she shall learn what shall be expected of him or
her in such a capacity and to determine the relationship of his or her proposed
subdivision with the Comprehensive Plan for the affected area. At this time, or
at subsequent informal meetings with the city officials, the subdivider may
submit a general sketch plan of the proposed subdivision and preliminary
proposals for sewer and water connections. The sketch plan may be presented in
simple form showing any zoning changes which would be required, and showing
that consideration has been given to the relationship of the proposed
subdivision to existing community facilities that would serve it, to
neighboring subdivisions and development, to the topography of the site and to
the Comprehensive Plan for the area.
   (B)   The subdivider/developer is urged to avail himself or herself of the
advice and assistance of the Planning Commission and staff at this point in
order to save time and effort and facilitate the approval of the preliminary
plat.
(2001 Code, § 12.05)
§ 153.026 PRELIMINARY PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   There will be required a cash fee, which will be used for the expenses
of the city in connection with approval or disapproval of the plan and any
final plat which may later be submitted. The plat fee shall be set annually by
the City Council.
   (B)   The subdivider shall engage a qualified land planner, registered land
surveyor or engineer to prepare a preliminary plat of the area to be
subdivided.
   (C)   The subdivider shall review proposed utility easements with utility
companies and submit a letter from the company.
   (D)   The subdivider shall submit six or more copies of the preliminary plat
to the city’s Clerk-Treasurer. The subdivider shall include a written statement
along with the preliminary plat describing the proposed subdivision. The
written statement shall include the anticipated development schedule, a table
showing total number of lots and sizes, utilization of existing natural
features and vegetation and the like.
   (E)   The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall submit one copy of the preliminary
plat to each Planning Commission member. One copy shall be submitted to any
designated engineer. One copy shall be submitted to the County Engineer if the
plat borders a county road. One copy shall be submitted to the District
Engineer of the state’s Department of Transportation if the plat borders a
federal, state or state aid highway. When the land lies within the limits of
the floodway and/or the flood fringe areas of the Floodplain District, one copy
shall be submitted to the Department of Natural Resources Commissioner.
   (F)   All agencies receiving copies of the preliminary plat shall transmit a
report of their reactions together with supporting material to the Planning
Commission prior to the meeting at which the plat is to be considered. The
subdivider shall be required to pay the cost of the service.
   (G)   The Planning Commission may require qualified technical and staff
services such as economic and legal staff to review the preliminary plat and
advise on its suitability regarding general planning; conformity with plans of
other private and public organizations and agencies; adequacy of proposed water
supply, sewage disposal, drainage and flood control, special assessment
procedures and other features. The subdivider shall be required to pay the cost
of the services.
   (H)   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the preliminary
plat within 45 days of its filing date. The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall
publish notice of the time and place in the official newspaper and send
certified notice to property owners within 300 feet of the exterior boundary of
the proposed plat. The subdivider shall furnish a list of names and addresses
to the city’s Clerk-Treasurer. Notice shall be made no sooner than 30 days
prior to the hearing and no later than ten days prior to the day of the
hearing. A Planning Commission meeting may serve as a public hearing provided
the legal requirements pertaining to the same are met.
   (I)   At the public hearing, the subdivider and all interested persons shall
have the opportunity to be heard. The Commission shall then prepare a report
recommending approval, disapproval or approval with conditions, and submit it
to the City Council along with a copy being sent to the subdivider within 14
days of the public hearing. The subdivider may proceed with the final plat upon
approval by the City Council.
(2001 Code, § 12.05)
§ 153.027 PRELIMINARY PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   The following information is required to be shown on, or to accompany, all
preliminary plats:
   (A)   Location map showing the proposed plat’s location in relationship to
the corporate limits and an accompanying legal description;
   (B)   Site map showing the area of the proposed plat, including land within
300 feet of its boundary;
   (C)   Existing and proposed zoning;
   (D)   Name of the proposed subdivision, approximate total acreage and date
of plan preparation;
   (E)   Names and addresses of the owner, subdivider/developer, surveyor and
designer;
   (F)   Proposed name for plat with no duplication of or similarity to the
name of any plat recorded so far in the county; and
   (G)   Maps or sketches at a scale of not less than one inch to 100 feet
showing the following:
      (1)   Exterior boundary survey of the proposed subdivision, including
measured distances and angles, which shall close by latitude and departure with
an error of closure not to exceed one foot in 5,000 feet;
      (2)   Graphic scale and north point;
      (3)   Within the proposed subdivision and within 300 feet of its
boundary, the locations, names, rights-of-way, widths and types of surfacing of
all existing streets and other public ways; location and width of all existing
railroad and utility right-of-way; location and size of all existing parks,
playgrounds and other public open spaces; and location and identification of
all existing public buildings;
      (4)   Proposed arrangement, dimension and proposed use of all lots,
blocks and parcels to be platted within the subdivision, including proposed
sites if any, for shopping centers, churches, schools, cemeteries, industrial
and other non-residential uses;
      (5)   Proposed locations, names and right-of-way widths of all new public
or private streets, roads and alleys, together with location and width of all
proposed utility and drainage easements;
      (6)   Proposed location, size and future ownership of all parks or
playgrounds to be reserved for public use;
      (7)   Proposed location of all pedestrian ways, sidewalks and trails as
they relate to existing and proposed systems and end points outside the
proposed subdivision; and
      (8)   A topographic map or survey of the proposed subdivision showing
contours with an interval of not less than ten feet. USGS datum shall be used
and spot elevations shall be shown.
(2001 Code, § 12.05)
§ 153.028 PRELIMINARY PLAT OPTIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Any of the following information may be required to be shown on or to
accompany any preliminary plat where, due to site conditions, they are deemed
necessary by the Planning Commission or the City Planner in order to make a
valid assessment of the proposal. The owner will be made aware of these
additional requirements at the pre-application meeting.
   (B)   Required information is as follows:
      (1)   Complete topographic map showing contour intervals not greater than
two feet. If the land slopes more than approximately 2%, spot elevations shall
be shown at selected points not more than 100 feet apart in all directions. The
topographic map shall reference USGS datum;
      (2)   Complete natural features map, detailing watercourses, marshes,
swamps, including the highest known water level of any body of water including
approximate dates, defining the floodplain, the floodway and the flood fringe
area; rock outcrops; wooded areas showing size and location of significant
hardwood trees and groves; and natural storm drainage indicated by arrows;
      (3)   A report showing subsurface conditions in the subdivision,
including the location and results of soil tests made to ascertain subsurface
soil, rock and ground water conditions. Depth to ground water unless test pits
are dry at a depth of seven feet and results of soil percolation test if
individual sewage disposal systems are proposed;
      (4)   Other data as may be requested by the City Council or Planning
Commission;
      (5)   Where a tract of land is proposed for subdivision that is a part of
a larger logical subdivision unit, the Planning Commission may cause to be
prepared a “plan of the entire area”, the plan to be used by the Commission to
aid in judging the proposed plat, and to show in at least a preliminary or
sketch form the proposed layout of streets, blocks, lots and the proposed use
of land if different from residential; and
      (6)   A separate draft of proposed protective covenants if they are to be
used shall be submitted.
(2001 Code, § 12.05)
§ 153.029 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   The owner shall engage a registered land surveyor to prepare a final
plat which shall constitute that portion of the preliminary plat which the
owner proposes to record and develop at the time.
   (B)   (1)   The owner shall submit ten or more copies of the final plat to
the Clerk-Treasurer at least 15 days before the Planning Commission meeting at
which the plat is to be considered. The final plat shall be submitted within
one year of preliminary plat approval; otherwise, the approval shall become
null and void.
      (2)   In the event the preliminary plat is not entirely platted in final
form within five years of approval, the preliminary plat shall be resubmitted
to the Planning Commission for its review and action; otherwise, the initial
approval shall be considered null and void.
   (C)   The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall transmit one copy of the final plat
to each member of the Planning Commission no later than seven days after its
receipt.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall study the final plat, considering the
reports of an engineer and/or planner and other departments and/or employees,
and then shall transmit its action to the City Council within 30 days of
submittal to the city’s Clerk-Treasurer.
   (E)   The City Council shall act upon the final plat within 30 days of the
Planning Commission approval, whereupon the city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall notify
the owner of the City Council’s action.
   (F)   The owner shall file the approved final plat with the city’s Clerk-
Treasurer, and shall record the final plat with the County Recorder within 60
days of final plat approval; otherwise, the approval shall be considered null
and void.
   (G)   The owner shall be responsible for the cost of adding the plat to the
city’s system of maps, and shall submit Mylar or hardshell maps to the county
as is required by the county.
(2001 Code, § 12.05)
§ 153.030 FINAL PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The final plat shall conform to all platting regulations of the state
and county.
   (B)   It shall basically be comprised of, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Map showing all dimensions and accurate graphic representations of
the plat’s boundaries, lots, blocks, streets, alleys, easements, pedestrian
walkways, parks and the like;
      (2)   General information such as: north indication, legend for symbols
representing monuments and the like; graphic scale (no smaller than one inch
equals 100 feet); and
      (3)   Formal dedication portion including: accurate legal description;
notarized certification by owners and mortgage holders of the adoption of the
plat and dedication of the public portions; notarized certification by a
registered land surveyor to the effect that a survey has been performed and
that all monuments are in place. Certification showing that all taxes currently
due on the property to be platted have been paid in full; form for approval by
the Planning Commission, form for approval by the City Council; form for
approval by the County Recorder; and any other forms or certifications needed
for final acceptance.
(2001 Code, § 12.05)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 153.045 GENERAL.
   (A)   (1)   The design standards as specified in this subchapter are
structured to provide the city as the platting authority with flexibility in
review of subdivisions within the area governed by these regulations.
      (2)   The standards are necessary to assure that adopted plans and/or
policies of the city are implemented and that other applicable ordinances of
the city are enforced.
      (3)   Further, these standards are necessary to ensure that the proposed
subdivision, when approved, will be in harmony with the natural environment.
   (B)   The design standards cover overall design, street design, street
width, alleys, easements, blocks and lots to ensure conformance with official
plans.
   (C)   Valuable topographic and scenic features and ground cover shall be
preserved and retained to the maximum possible extent. Drainage shall be
provided for in the subdivision by adequate storm drains or by maintenance of
natural drainage channels.
   (D)   Land which the Planning Commission finds to be unsuitable for
subdivision or development due to flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes,
rock formations, adverse earth formations or topography, utility easements or
other features which will reasonably be harmful to the safety, health and
general welfare of the present or future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or
its surrounding areas, shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate
methods are formulated by the subdivider/developer and approved by the Planning
Commission, to solve the problems created by the unsuitable land conditions.
The land shall be set aside for uses as shall not involve such a danger.
   (E)   All subdivisions are encouraged to be laid out in a manner that all
lots or building sites make optimum use of a south-facing exposure, such that
solar heating and cooling is not eliminated as a result of subdivision layout.
   (F)   The rigid rectangular gridiron street pattern need not necessarily be
adhered to, and the use of curvilinear streets, U-shaped streets, cul-de-sacs
typical of cluster type subdivision layout shall be encouraged where the use
will result in a more desirable and efficient use of the land.
(2001 Code, § 12.06)
§ 153.046 GENERAL STREET DESIGN.
   (A)   The design of all streets shall be considered in their relation to
existing and planned streets, to reasonable circulation of traffic, to
topographic conditions, to runoff of storm water and to the proposed uses of
the area to be served.
   (B)   Where new streets extend existing adjoining streets, their projection
shall be at the same or greater width, but in no case less than the minimum
required width.
   (C)   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of streets
in new subdivisions shall make provision for the proper projection of streets.
When a new subdivision adjoins unsubdivided land susceptible to being
subdivided, then the new streets shall be carries to the boundaries of the
unsubdivided land and shall be designed to meet the traffic needs of the area
the road is to serve upon full development.
   (D)   The following standards of street design shall be observed by the
subdivider/developer.
Street Category Minimum Width R- Minimum Width Maximum Grade* Minimum Drainage
                O-W              Pavement                     Grade
Street Category Minimum Width R- Minimum Width Maximum Grade* Minimum Drainage
                O-W              Pavement                     Grade
Collector       80 feet          44 feet       5%             0.5%
Cul-de-sac      60 feet          32 feet       7%             0.5%
frontage
Local streets   50 feet          28 feet**     7-10%          0.5%
Minor arterial  100 feet         60 feet       4%             0.5%
Parkway         100 feet         44 feet       5%
Urban principal 150 feet         84 feet       4%             0.5%
arterial
NOTES TO TABLE:
* To assure a safe and reasonable sight distance at intersections, a lesser
maximum grade may be required.
** Residential standard.
 
   (E)   Turn arounds shall have a minimum outside roadway diameter of 120
feet, and a minimum street property line diameter of 140 feet. Maximum distance
between street intersections and turn arounds or between turn arounds shall be
500 feet measured along the street centerline from the intersection of origin
or from the center point of the turn around.
   (F)   Local streets are intended for access to abutting property and shall
be so aligned that their use by through traffic shall be discouraged.
   (G)   Street jogs with centerline off-sets of less than 125 feet shall be
avoided.
   (H)   Insofar as practical, streets shall intersect at right angles and no
intersection shall be at an angle of less than 60 degrees. It must be evident
that safe and efficient traffic flow is encouraged. No intersection shall
contain more than four “corners”.
   (I)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where the City Council finds
it to be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the
adjoining property is subdivided. In such event, access to the half street
shall be prohibited until the adjoining property is subdivided.
   (J)   Proposed streets obviously in alignment with existing and named
streets shall bear the names of the existing streets. In no case shall the name
of the proposed street duplicate names, including phonetic similarities,
elsewhere in the county, excepting municipalities.
   (K)   Public improvements shall not be approved for any private street.
   (L)   Where a minor subdivision is to be located adjacent to an arterial or
collector road, the City Council shall require that lots back on those
thoroughfares, and lots be landscaped to provide a buffer zone; in which case,
vehicular and pedestrian access to the individual lots and the thoroughfares
shall be prohibited. The local service drive shall either be a cul-de-sac or
designated as a U-shaped or loop street entered from and designed generally at
right angles to such a parallel street.
   (M)   Where a proposed plat is adjacent to an arterial or collector roadway
as designated by area plans, spacing between access points to the thoroughfares
of less than 660 feet for collectors and 1,320 feet for arterial shall be
avoided, except where impractical or impossible due to existing property
division or topography.
   (N)   Curb lines at street intersections shall be rounded at a radius of not
less than 15 feet.
   (O)   Alleys shall be prohibited unless special permission is granted by the
City Council for their provision.
   (P)   The street arrangements shall not be such as to cause hardship to
owners of adjoining property in platting their own land and providing
convenient access to it.
   (Q)   Tangents of at least 100 feet in length shall be introduced between
reverse curves on collector streets and 50 feet on lesser streets.
   (R)   Vertical and horizontal curves shall meet the state’s Department of
Transportation Standard.
   (S)   The standards as promulgated in Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances
shall be followed.
(2001 Code, § 12.06)
§ 153.047 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Utilities.
      (1)   Easements of at least 12 feet wide centered on rear lot lines shall
be provided for utilities where necessary. Easements for storm or sanitary
sewers shall be at least 20 feet wide. They shall have continuity of alignment
from block-to-block.
      (2)   Temporary construction easements may be required where installation
depths are greater than ten feet.
      (3)   Utility easements shall be kept free of any vegetation or
structures that would interfere with the free movement of utility service
vehicles.
   (B)   Watercourses. When a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainage way, channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement
or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially with the lines of the
watercourses and with such further width or construction as may be determined
to be necessary.
(2001 Code, § 12.06)
§ 153.048 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Length. Block lengths shall not exceed 1,320 feet and shall be less
than 400 feet, unless impractical due to existing property division or
topography.
   (B)   Pedestrian walkways.
      (1)   The Planning Commission and/or City Council may require the
provision of pedestrian walkways in proximity to public service areas such as
parks, schools, shopping facilities or in other appropriate locations of a
similar nature.
      (2)   The design of the pedestrian walkways shall be considered in their
relation to existing and planned pedestrian walkways, to reasonable circulation
of traffic, to topographic conditions, to runoff of storm water and to the
proposed uses of the area to be served.
      (3)   In blocks longer than 600 feet, a pedestrian crossway with a
minimum right-of-way of 20 feet may be required near the center of the block.
(2001 Code, § 12.06)
§ 153.049 LOTS.
   (A)   Layout.
      (1)   Where possible, side lot lines shall be at right angles to straight
lines or radial to curved street lines.
      (2)   Lots with frontage on two parallel local streets shall be
prohibited.
   (B)   Size and dimension. Minimum lot area for residential subdivision plats
shall comply with the standards of
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances.
   (C)   Corner lots. Corner lots shall be platted at least 10% wider than the
minimum lot width required unless this requirement results in corner lot widths
in excess of 100 feet, in which case the requirement shall not apply.
   (D)   Natural features. In the subdivision of land, due regard shall be
shown for all natural features which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and
stability to the proposed development and which may alter normal lot platting.
   (E)   Lots along thoroughfares/railroads.
      (1)   Residential lots shall be separated from highways, arterial streets
and railroad rights-of-way by a 15-foot buffer strip, which may be in the form
of added depth or width of lots backing on or siding on the thoroughfares or
railroad rights-of-way.
      (2)   This buffer strip need not be applicable to the abandoned railroad
right-of-way.
   (F)   Lot remnants. Lot remnants which are below the minimum lot size must
be added to adjacent or surrounding lots rather than be allowed to remain as an
unusable outlot or parcel unless the subdivider/developer can show plans for
the future use of the remnant.
(2001 Code, § 12.06)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.060 GENERAL.
   Prior to approval of the final plat, the subdivider/developer shall be
required to provide the following improvements for subdivisions unless the city
elects to give approval upon being presented with financial guarantees as set
forth in this subchapter.
(2001 Code, § 12.07)
§ 153.061 MONUMENTS.
   (A)   Steel monuments shall be placed within six inches of final elevation
at all lot corners, block corners, angle points, points of curves in streets
and at intermediate points as shown on the final plat. The installation shall
be the subdivider/developer’s expense and responsibility.
   (B)   All U.S., state, county or other official benchmarks, monuments or
triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in
precise position.
(2001 Code, § 12.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.062 STREETS.
   (A)   Grading. Streets shall be graded to the full width of the right-of-way
in accordance with street grades submitted to and approved by the Engineer. All
street grading and gravel base construction shall be in accordance with city
specifications depending upon zoning locality. Grading shall be complete prior
to installation of applicable underground utilities, either private or public
in nature. Gravel base construction shall be undertaken after completion of the
installation of underground utilities.
   (B)   Surfacing. Following Engineer approval of street grading and after
utility installation, streets shall be surfaced with a hard, impermeable
material in accordance with the latest recommended plans and specifications
prepared by the City Engineer, approved by the City Council and on file in the
City Clerk-Treasurer’s office.
(2001 Code, § 12.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.063 UTILITIES.
   All utilities, whether private or public, shall be installed underground so
as to enhance the visual appearance of the area, unless special permission is
granted by the City Council for other installation. Where utilities are to be
installed in street or alley rights-of-way, the installations shall take place
prior to street surfacing.
(2001 Code, § 12.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.064 DRAINAGE AND STORM SEWERS.
   (A)   General requirements. Every major subdivision request shall be
accompanied by a drainage plan. The Planning Commission shall not recommend for
approval any preliminary plat for a major subdivision which does not make
adequate provision for storm or flood water runoff channels or basins. The
storm water drainage systems shall be separate and independent of any sanitary
sewer system. Storm sewers, where required, shall be designated by the Rational
Method, or other methods if approved by the Planning Commission, and a copy of
the design computations shall be submitted along with the plan. Inlets shall be
provided so that surface water is not carried across or around any
intersection, nor for a distance of more than 600 feet in a gutter.
   (B)   Location. The subdivider/developer may be required by the Planning
Commission to carry away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that
may exist either previously to, or as a result of the subdivision. The drainage
facilities shall be located in the road right-of-way where feasible, or in
perpetual unobstructed easements of appropriate width, and shall be constructed
in accordance with the construction standards and specifications.
   (C)   Accessibility to public storm sewers. Where a public storm sewer is
accessible, the subdivider/ developer shall install storm sewer facilities, or
if outlets are within a reasonable distance, adequate provision shall be made
for the disposal of storm waters, subject to the specifications of the
Engineer. However, in subdivisions containing lots less than 15,000 square feet
in area are in business and industrial districts, underground storm sewer
systems shall be constructed to an approved outfall. Inspection of the
facilities may be conducted by the Engineer.
   (D)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas. A culvert or other drainage
facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate potential runoff
from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision. The Engineer shall determine the necessary size of the facility,
based on the provisions of construction standards and specifications.
   (E)   Effect on downstream drainage areas. The Engineer shall also study the
effect of each subdivision on existing downstream drainage facilities outside
the area of the subdivision. Local government drainage studies, together with
other studies as shall be appropriate, shall serve as a guide to needed
improvements. Where it is anticipated that the additional runoff incident to
the development of the subdivision will overload an existing downstream
drainage facility, the Planning Commission may withhold approval of the
subdivision until provision has been made for the improvement of the potential
condition in a sum as the Planning Commission shall determine. No subdivision
shall be approved unless adequate drainage will be provided to an adequate
drainage watercourse or facility.
   (F)   Areas of poor drainage. Whenever a plat is submitted for an area which
is subject to flooding, the Planning Commission may approve the subdivision;
provided that, the subdivider/developer fills the affected area of the
subdivision to an elevation sufficient to place the elevation sufficient to
place the elevation of streets and lots at a minimum of 12 inches above the
elevation of the average probable flood, as determined by the Engineer. The
plat of the subdivision shall provide for a floodway along the bank of any
stream or watercourse, in a width which shall be sufficient in times of high
water to contain or move the water, and no fill shall be placed in the floodway
nor shall any structure be erected or placed there. The boundaries of the
floodway shall be subject to approval by the Engineer. Areas of extremely poor
drainage should be discouraged.
   (G)   Floodplain areas. The City Council may when it deems it necessary for
the health, safety or welfare of the present and future population of the area
and necessary to the conservation of water, drainage and sanitary facilities,
prohibit the subdivision of any portion of the property which lies within the
floodplain of any stream or drainage course. These areas shall be preserved
from any and all destruction or damage resulting from clearing, grading or
dumping of earth, waste material or stumps and in accord with county shorelands
zoning. The land or lands subject to periodic flooding may be used in computing
the number of lots to result from approval of the final plat, and in computing
the area requirement of any lot; provided, the lot size meets the requirements
of Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances and the subdivider/developer can prove to
the satisfaction of the Planning Commission that each lot has a suitable
building site and sufficient area for septic systems.
(2001 Code, § 12.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.065 WATER FACILITIES.
   Subdividers/developers are encouraged to hook into existing systems where
feasible, or to create a community water supply system capable of providing
domestic water use and fire protection. Where a public water main is
accessible, the subdivider/developer shall install adequate water facilities
(including fire hydrants) subject to the specifications of the appropriate
state or local authorities. All water mains shall be at least six inches in
diameter. Water main extensions shall be approved by the officially designated
agency of the local government. To facilitate the above, the location of all
fire hydrants, and all water supply improvements proposed to be served, shall
be shown on the preliminary plat, and the cost of installing the same shall be
included in the performance bond to be furnished by the subdivider/developer.
At the discretion of the City Council, if a public water system is not
available, individual wells may be used or a community water system provided in
a manner that an adequate supply of potable water will be available to every
lot in the subdivision. Water samples shall be submitted to the state’s
Department of Health for its approval, and individual wells and central water
systems shall be approved by the appropriate health authorities. Orders of
approval shall be submitted to the City Council. If the City Council requires
that a connection to a public water main be eventually provided as a condition
to the approval of an individual well or central water system, the subdivider/
developer shall make arrangements for future water service at the time the plat
received final approval. Performance or cash bonds may be required to ensure
compliance.
(2001 Code, § 12.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.066 SEWERAGE FACILITIES.
   The subdivider/developer shall install sanitary sewer facilities in a manner
prescribed by the local government construction standards and specifications.
All plans shall be designated in accordance with the rules, regulations and
standards of the Engineer, the state’s Department of Health and other
appropriate agencies. Plans shall be approved by the above agencies as
necessary. Sanitary sewerage facilities shall connect with municipal sanitary
sewerage systems. Sewers shall be installed to serve each lot and to grades and
sizes required by approving officials and agencies. No individual disposal
system or treatment plants (community systems) shall be permitted. Sanitary
sewerage facilities (including the installation of laterals in the right-of-
way) shall be subject to the specifications, rules, regulations and guidelines
of the Planning Commissioner, City Engineer and appropriate state agency.
(2001 Code, § 12.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.067 DRIVEWAY ENTRANCES.
   (A)   Driveways shall be constructed from the pavement line to the property
line.
   (B)   Where ditches parallel the road surface, driveways shall span the
ditch and a culvert of adequate size shall be installed by the subdivider/
developer to ensure proper drainage.
(2001 Code, § 12.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.068 TREE PLANTING.
   (A)   In areas lacking trees as determined by the Planning Commission, trees
may be required to be planted not less than 40 feet apart, with a minimum of
one per lot, at the time a building permit is issued.
   (B)   No trees shall be planted within 30 feet of the intersection of curb
lines on corner lots.
   (C)   The minimum size shall measure one and one-half inches in diameter at
ground line.
   (D)   Only those varieties and locations approved shall be used. No trees
shall be planted within a right-of-way.
(2001 Code, § 12.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.069 SPECIFICATIONS AND INSPECTIONS.
   Unless otherwise stated, all the required improvements shall conform to
engineering standards and specifications as required by the City Council. The
improvements shall be subject to inspection and approval by, and shall be made
in sequence as determined by, the Engineer.
(2001 Code, § 12.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.070 FINANCING.
   The subdivider/developer shall be required to pay for all or a portion of
the above-required improvements according to the following schedule.
   (A)   Sanitary sewers. Rates will be based on the total cost of constructing
the sanitary sewer necessary to serve the development site together with any
area or district-wide benefits of prior construction and shall comply with all
requirements of Title V of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Water mains.
      (1)   Rates will be based on the total cost of constructing water mains
to serve the development site.
      (2)   In the case of residential developments, the rate will be based on
the total cost of constructing a six-inch water main including hydrant and gate
valves installed at normal spacing.
   (C)   Storm drainage.
      (1)   Rates will be based on the cost of constructing a storm sewer
necessary to provide adequate drainage of the development site.
      (2)   Where a larger watershed or drainage area can be defined and when
that area will benefit from the installation of a storm sewer, rates shall be
determined for that defined area by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Street signs. Street signs shall be installed at subdivider/developer
expense.
   (E)   Culverts.
      (1)   Culverts installed under roads to be dedicated to the city shall be
installed at subdivider/developer expense.
      (2)   The city shall install replacement culverts.
(2001 Code, § 12.07)
§ 153.071 REVIEW AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   The subdivider/developer shall pay for all costs incurred by the city
for subdivision review and inspection.
   (B)   This would include preparation and review of plans and specifications
by technical assistance and cost incurred by the Attorney, as well as other
costs of similar nature.
(2001 Code, § 12.07)
§ 153.072 PAYMENT, IMPROVEMENT CONTRACT AND FINANCIAL GUARANTEE.
   (A)   The required improvements to be furnished and installed by the
subdivider/developer, which are listed and described above, are to be furnished
and installed at the sole expense of the subdivider/developer and at no expense
to the public. If any improvement installed within the subdivision will be of
substantial benefit to lands beyond the boundaries of the subdivision, the
Council may make provision for causing a portion of the cost of the
improvement, representing the benefit to the lands, to be assessed against the
same; or, the City Council may choose to pay the increased cost and assess for
improvements when future development takes place. In such cases, the
subdivider/developer will be required to pay only for such portions of the
whole cost if the future development takes place. In such case, the subdivider/
developer will be required only to pay for the portions of the whole cost of
the improvements as will represent the benefit to the property within the
subdivision.
   (B)   Prior to installation of required improvements and prior to approval
of the final plat, the subdivider/developer shall enter into a contract with
the city requiring that the subdivider/ developer furnish and construct the
improvements at his or her expense and in accordance with plans and
specifications to be approved by the Engineer. The contract shall stipulate the
type and extent of the improvements to be constructed, the cost of
construction, the construction time schedule, the city’s authority to inspect
the construction and the amount of the escrow deposit or performance bond to be
furnished in accordance with this section.
   (C)   Prior to the approval of the final plat, the subdivider/developer
shall make an escrow deposit. In the alternative, he, she or they shall furnish
a performance bond equal to one and one-half the total estimated construction
cost of the improvements as estimated by the Engineer, including the cost of
inspection by the city. Any such deposit or bond shall accrue to the city. In
case of default, the city shall appropriate any deposit and pursue its remedies
provided by any bond. The city shall specify the term of any bond. Deposits
shall be made with the Clerk-Treasurer of the city or with a responsible escrow
agent acceptable to the city. The city may agree to provide for reduction of
the amount of any bond or deposit by reason of completion of, or in payment
for, the improvements for which the bond or deposit has been made. Nothing
shall preclude the city from making special assessments against benefitted
property for improvements made on it.
(2001 Code, § 12.07)
§ 153.073 CONSTRUCTION PLANS AND AS-BUILTS.
   (A)   Construction plans for the required improvements conforming in all
respects to the standards of the city and the applicable ordinances, shall be
prepared at the subdivider/developer expense by a professional engineer who is
registered in the state and the plans shall contain his or her seal. The plans
together with the quantity of construction items shall be submitted to the
engineer for his or her approval.
   (B)   Upon the Engineer’s certificate of compliance, the subdivider/
developer may be required to furnish the city with as-built drawings prepared
by a registered engineer showing the improvements as-built or in place.
(2001 Code, § 12.07)
PUBLIC LAND DEDICATION
§ 153.085 RESERVATION OF LAND.
   Where a proposed park, playground, school site or other public site shown on
an adopted plan or official map is embraced in part or in whole by a boundary
of a proposed subdivision, and the public sites are not dedicated to the city
or Board of Education, the public ground shall be shown as reserved land on the
preliminary plat to allow the city or state agency, or the Board of Education
the opportunity to consider and take action toward acquisition of the public
ground or park or school site by purchase or other means prior to approval of
the final plat.
(2001 Code, § 12.08)
§ 153.086 DEDICATION OF LAND.
   (A)   The city shall require all major subdivisions to dedicate a percentage
of the gross area of all property subdivided to be dedicated for parks,
playgrounds or other public use. The percentage shall be in addition to the
property dedicated for streets, alleys, waterways, pedestrian ways or other
public ways. Where the subdivider has already made a dedication to another
governmental unit having regulatory authority over the proposed subdivision,
this requirement shall not apply to the extent that the prior deduction has
been made.
Schedule for Dedication of Public Land in Areas Zoned
Schedule for Dedication of Public Land in Areas Zoned
0 - 4.99   Dwelling unit/net acre 5%
5 - 7.00   Dwelling unit/net acre 7%
8 - 10.00  Dwelling unit/net acre 9%
11 - 19.99 Dwelling unit/net acre 8%
20 - 24.99 Dwelling unit/net acre 12%
25+        Dwelling unit/net acre 16%
           Commercial/industrial  5%
 
   (B)   No areas may be dedicated as parks, playgrounds or public lands until
the areas have been approved for the purpose to which they are to be dedicated.
The subdivider shall leave the dedicated land in a condition suitable to the
City Council.
(2001 Code, § 12.08)
§ 153.087 CASH IN LIEU OF LAND.
   (A)   If, in the judgment of the City Council, the area proposed to be
dedicated is not suitable or desirable for park/playground purposes, because of
location, size or other reason, the City Council may require, in lieu of land
dedication, a payment to the city of a sum equal to the percentage listed above
of the average value of the land to be subdivided. The aforementioned value
shall be the value of the land upon approval of the preliminary plat, yet prior
to the installation of improvements, and shall be determined jointly by the
City Council or its agent and the subdivider. If the City Council and the
subdivider cannot agree on land value, then the land values shall be
established on the basis of the average of two independent appraisals by
professional appraisers; and the cost of the professional appraisal shall be
paid by the subdivider.
   (B)   The dedication of land for public use shall be without restrictions or
reservations and shall be transferred to the city.
(2001 Code, § 12.08)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Purpose
   
154.002   Scope
   
154.003   Interpretation
   
154.004   Conflict
   
154.005   Severability
   
154.006   Short title
   
154.007   Interpretation of terminology
   
154.008   Definitions
City Council Powers
   
154.020   Creation and membership
   
154.021   Powers
   
154.022   Appeals
   
154.023   Findings
   
154.024   Procedure
Conditional Use Permits
   
154.035   Application
   
154.036   Notification and public hearing
   
154.037   Findings
   
154.038   Action by City Council
   
154.039   Filing and fees
   
154.040   Compliance
Variances
   
154.055   General
   
154.056   Grounds for variance
   
154.057   Procedure
   
154.058   Fees
Zoning Permits
   
154.070   Application
   
154.071   Issuing of permits
   
154.072   Schedule of fees, charges and expenses
   
154.073   Improvements requiring a zoning permit
   
154.074   Required inspections
   
154.075   Complaints regarding violations
Amendments
   
154.090   Application
   
154.091   Public hearing
   
154.092   Authorization
   
154.093   Recording
   
154.094   Fees
Zoning Instruments
   
154.105   Zoning Map
   
154.106   Replacement of Zoning Map
   
154.107   District boundary lines
   
154.108   Annexations
District Regulations
   
154.120   A-1 Agriculture District
   
154.121   R-1 Residential District
   
154.122   R-2 Manufactured Home Park District
   
154.123   B-1 Highway Business District
   
154.124   B-2 General Business District
   
154.125   I-1 Industrial District
Performance Standards
   
154.140   Intent
   
154.141   Compliance
   
154.142   Landscaping
   
154.143   Noise
   
154.144   Odors
   
154.145   Glare
   
154.146   Exterior lighting
   
154.147   Vibration
   
154.148   Smoke and particle matter
   
154.149   Dust
   
154.150   Toxic or noxious matter
   
154.151   Garbage, refuse and the like
   
154.152   Explosives
   
154.153   State Building Code
   
154.154   Height regulations
   
154.155   Yard regulations
   
154.156   Lot area regulations
   
154.157   Accessory uses
   
154.158   Accessory buildings
   
154.159   Buildings to be moved
   
154.160   Traffic visibility
   
154.161   Fences
   
154.162   Lot surveys
   
154.163   Limits on request for variances, conditional use permit or amendment
   
154.164   Home occupations
   
154.165   Minimum residential structure requirements
   
154.166   Earth-sheltered buildings
   
154.167   Numbering of homes and places of businesses
Parking and Loading
   
154.180   Scope
   
154.181   Exemptions
   
154.182   Size reduction of parking lot and loading space
   
154.183   Parking lot and loading area use restriction
   
154.184   Location of parking and loading facilities
   
154.185   Combined parking facilities
   
154.186   Special purpose parking facilities
   
154.187   General construction requirements
   
154.188   Parking lots in residential districts
   
154.189   Parking lot and loading area maintenance
   
154.190   Parking and storage of vehicles or equipment
   
154.191   Computing parking space requirements
   
154.192   Minimum parking space size requirement
   
154.193   Minimum parking lot size requirement
   
154.194   Required number of on-site parking spaces
   
154.195   Minimum loading area definition and size
   
154.196   Required number of on-site loading berths
Signs
   
154.210   General
   
154.211   Permitted signs
   
154.212   Permitted uses
   
154.213   General regulations
   
154.214   Non-conforming signs
Non-Conforming Uses, Land and Structures
   
154.225   Interpretation
   
154.226   Non-conforming lots of record
   
154.227   Construction approved prior to adoption of chapter
   
154.228   Repairs and maintenance
   
154.229   Discontinuance
   
154.230   Non-conforming signs
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is enacted to promote the health, safety and general welfare of
the inhabitants of the city, by lessening congestion in the streets, secure
safety from fire, panic and other dangers. It is further enacted to provide
adequate light and air; prevent the overcrowding of land; avoid undue
concentration of population; facilitate the adequate provision of
transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks and other public requirements,
conserve the value of properties; and encourage the most appropriate use of
land.
(2001 Code, § 11.01)
§ 154.002 SCOPE.
   The use of all land and every building or portion of a building erected,
altered and with respect to height and area, added to or relocated and every
use within a building or use accessory in the city shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter. Any existing building or structure and any
existing use of properties not in conformity with the regulations prescribed
shall be regarded as non-conforming, may be continued, extended or changed
subject to the special regulations provided with respect to non-conforming
properties or uses.
(2001 Code, § 11.01)
§ 154.003 INTERPRETATION.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, they shall be
held to be minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
comfort, convenience and general welfare. Where the provisions of this chapter
impose greater restrictions than those of any statute, other ordinance or
regulation, the provision of this chapter shall be controlling. Where the
provisions of any statute, other ordinance or regulation impose greater
restrictions than this chapter, the provisions of the statute, other ordinance
or regulation shall be controlling.
(2001 Code, § 11.01)
§ 154.004 CONFLICT.
   All prior ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict are repealed, but
nothing shall prevent the prosecution of any person or the bringing of a civil
action to enjoin any person for the prior violation of any ordinance or part of
any ordinance repealed.
(2001 Code, § 11.01)
§ 154.005 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase of this
chapter should be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever, this decision
shall not affect the remaining portion of this chapter which shall remain in
full force and effect.
(2001 Code, § 11.01)
§ 154.006 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Zoning Ordinance of the
City of Good Thunder”.
(2001 Code, § 11.01)
§ 154.007 INTERPRETATION OF TERMINOLOGY.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and in the plural the singular.
   (B)   The word “person” shall include a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company or corporation as well as an individual.
   (C)   The word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
   (D)   The word “may’ is permissive.
   (E)   The word “lot” shall include the words “plot”, “piece” and “parcel”.
   (F)   The words “used for” shall include the phrases “arranged for”,
“designed for”, “intended for”, “maintained for” and “occupied for”.
(2001 Code, § 11.02)
§ 154.008 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A secondary building which is located on the same lot as
the main building and the use of which is clearly incidental to the use of the
main building.
   AGRICULTURE. The art or science of cultivating the soil and activities
incidental to that pursuit. The growing of soil crops in the customary manner
on open tracts of land; the accessory raising of livestock and poultry;
farming. The term shall include incidental retail selling by the producer of
products raised on the premises; provided that, space necessary for parking of
vehicles of customers shall be furnished outside the public right-of-way.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way less than 30 feet in width which
affords secondary means of access to abutting property.
   ALTERATION. As applied to a building or structure, a change or rearrangement
in the structural parts or enlargement or the moving from one location or
position to another.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite or rooms designed for, intended for or used as a
residence for one family or individual and equipped with cooking facilities.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. Two or more apartments grouped in one building.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION OR FILLING STATION. A place where gasoline,
kerosene or any other motor fuel or lubrication oil or grease for operating
motor vehicles is offered for sale and delivered directly into motor vehicles
including greasing and oiling.
   BILLBOARD. See SIGNS, ADVERTISING.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or a combination of streets and
public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines, waterways or
boundary lines of the corporate limits of the city.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel or motel, where for
compensation and by pre-arrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and
meals, are provided for three or more persons not members of the immediate
family therein.
   BUILDING. Any structure for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattel or property of any kind; and when separated by part walls
without openings, each portion of the building so separated shall be deemed a
separate BUILDING.
   BUILDING, DETACHED. A building surrounded by open space, the open space
being on the same zoning lot as the building.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the average contact ground
level at the front wall of the building to the highest point of the coping of a
flat roof or to the deck line of a mansard room, or to the mean height level
between eaves and ridge for gable, hip or gambrel roofs.
   BULK AND DENSITY CONTROLS. Those regulations or controls, which specify the
setback lines, lot sizes, building, maximum ground coverage, lot width and lot
depth.
   CITY COUNCIL. As defined in §
10.05 of this code of ordinances.
   CLINIC. A place used for the care, diagnosis and treatment of sick, ailing,
infirm and injured persons and those who are in need of medical or surgical
attention, but who are not provided with board or room nor kept overnight on
the premises.
   CLUB. A non-profit association of persons who are bona fide members, paying
regular dues and are organized for some common purpose, but not including a
group organized solely or primarily to render a service customarily carried on
as a commercial enterprise.
   COMMUNITY SEWER SYSTEM. A system of sewer control and processing serving a
group of buildings and lots with the design and construction of the systems as
approved by the state.
   CORNER LOT. Consists of two fronts, one side and one back view.
   CURB LEVEL. The level of the established curb in front of the building
measured at the center of the front. Where a building faces on more than one
street, the CURB LEVEL shall be the average of the levels of the curbs at the
center of the front of each street.
   DISTRICT ZONING. A section of the city for which the regulations governing
the height, area, use of building and premises are the same as delineated by
the Zoning Map.
   DRIVEWAY. Hard surface useable for the parking of a motor vehicle and
accessible to a public street or alley.
   DWELLING. A building or portion designed or used exclusively for residential
occupancy, including one-family, two-family and multiple-family units, but not
including hotels, motels, boarding or lodging houses.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED (GROUP, ROW OR TOWNHOUSE). A dwelling joined to other
dwellings by a party wall or walls.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling entirely surrounded by open space, the open
space being on the same zoning lot as the dwelling.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A dwelling containing one or more dwelling units,
designed with more than one dwelling unit connecting to a common corridor or
entranceway, originally constructed for the purpose; and not including
converted dwellings or attached row dwellings (party-wall type).
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached dwelling containing accommodations for
and occupied by one family only.
   DWELLING UNIT. Two or more rooms in a dwelling designed for occupancy by one
family for living purposes and having its own permanently installed cooking and
sanitary facilities.
   EARTH-SHELTERED BUILDING. A building constructed so that 50% or more of the
exterior is covered or in contact with earth. Exterior surface includes all
walls and roof, but excludes garages and other accessory buildings. Earth
covering on walls is measured from the floor of the structure’s lowest level.
Earth covering on the roof must be at least 12 inches deep to be included in
calculations in earth covering. Partially completed buildings shall not be
considered EARTH SHELTERED. Basement homes shall not be considered EARTH
SHELTERED.
   EASEMENT. A grant by a property owner for the use of a strip of land for the
purpose of constructing and maintaining utilities, including, but not limited
to, sanitary sewers, water mains, electric lines, telephone lines, storm sewer
or storm drainage ways and gas lines.
   FAMILY. Any number of individuals related by blood, marriage, adoption or
foster care, or not more than five persons not so related, maintaining a common
household and using common cooking and kitchen facilities; as distinguished
from a group occupying a boarding house, lodging house, hotel or motel.
   FAMILY, IMMEDIATE. Persons related by blood, marriage or certified legal
instrument.
   FARM. A tract of land, ten acres or more in size, or a space producing in
excess of $2,500 annual value of agricultural products and used for
agricultural activities such as the production of cash crops, livestock or
poultry farming. The FARM may include an agricultural dwelling and accessory
buildings and structures necessary to the operation of the FARM.
   FEEDLOT. An enclosure for the purpose of feeding poultry, livestock, mink
and other fur-bearing animals, where the enclosure does not or is not intended
to provide natural pasture for the animals and where the feedlot operation is
not accessory or incidental to a primary agricultural use.
   FEEDLOT, CONFINED. A feedlot in which the animals are confined closely in an
open lot or enclosed building and where it is necessary to periodically remove
the manure from the lot or enclosure; except that, a dairy barn shall not be
considered a FEEDLOT.
   FENCE. A structure serving as an enclosure, a barrier or a boundary usually
made of posts or stakes joined together by boards, wire or rails.
   FLOOR AREA. The floor area of a building is the sum of the gross horizontal
areas of the several floors of the building, measured from the exterior faces
of the exterior walls.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building measured from the exterior walls, from the exterior faces
of exterior walls, or from the centerline of party walls separating two
buildings. The term does not include basements used for storage purposes or
enclosed spaces used for off-street parking.
   FLOOR AREA, LIVABLE. Livable floor area shall be the same as “floor area”
defined above, excluding all area occupied by cellars, garages, porches,
attics, stairways and storage, utility and heating rooms.
   FRONTAGE. All the property fronting on one side of a street between the
nearest intersecting street or between a street or right-of-way, waterway or
other similar barrier.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or accessory portion of a principal
building designed and used for the storage of private passenger vehicles of the
family or families resident in the principal building, and in which no business
service or industry is conducted.
   GREEN SPACE. See OPEN SPACES.
   GROUP CAMPS. A supervised outdoor camp serving a number of individuals who
are affiliated with an accredited organization.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation or profession carried on by a member of the
family, residing on the premises, which is clearly secondary to the main use of
the premises as a dwelling and does not change the character or exhibit any
exterior evidence of the secondary use. Day care is exempt under this
definition.
   HOTEL. A building occupied as a temporary abiding place of individuals who
are lodged with or without meals in which there are more than five sleeping
rooms and where no provision is made for cooking in any individual room or
apartment.
   JUNK YARD. Land or building where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, cleaned, packed, disassembled or handled,
including, but not limited to, scrap metal, rags, paper, rubber products, glass
products, lumber products and products resulting from the wrecking of
automobiles or other vehicles; further that, the unenclosed storage of three or
more inoperable and/or unlicensed vehicles or major appliances for a period of
three months shall constitute a JUNK YARD.
   KENNEL. No person, firm, kennel or corporation shall own, keep, harbor or
have custody of more than four or more dogs or four or more cats, or a
combination of both over the age of four months in any one-family residential
unit or place of business.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure transportable in one or more sections which,
in the traveling mode, is eight feet or more in width and 40 feet or more in
length. The structure to be used as a dwelling for one family, with a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities, including plumbing,
heating, air conditioning and electrical systems. No manufactured dwelling
shall be moved into the city that does not meet the Manufactured Home Building
Code, as defined in M.S. § 327.31, as it may be amended from time to time.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A contiguous parcel of land which has been planned
for the placement of ten or more manufactured homes or manufactured home lots.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A method of property description by means of their
direction and distance from an easily identifiable point.
   MODULAR HOME. A non-mobile housing unit that is basically fabricated at a
central factory and transported to a building site where final installations
are made, permanently affixing the module to the site.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING. A building or portion of a building lawfully
existing at the time of adoption of this chapter in 1996, which was designed,
erected or structurally altered for a use that does not conform to the use
regulations of the district in which it is now located.
   NON-CONFORMING LOT. A lot lawfully existing at the time of adoption of this
chapter in 1996 which does not comply with the minimum lot area or frontage
requirements of the district in which it is located.
   NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure lawfully existing at the time of
adoption of this chapter in 1996 which does not comply with the bulk, yard,
setback or height regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use lawfully in existence on the effective date of
this chapter in 1996 and not conforming to the regulations for the district in
which it is situated; except that, such a use is not non-conforming if it would
be authorized under a conditional use permit where located.
   NON-CONFORMING USE OF LAND. Any use of a lot which does not conform to the
applicable use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NON-CONFORMING USE OF STRUCTURES. A use of a structure which does not
conform to the applicable use regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   NURSING HOME. A home designed and licensed to provide care for aged or
infirm persons requiring or receiving personal care or custodial care complying
with the standards established by the state’s Board of Health.
   OPEN SPACES. Land areas which are undeveloped and left in their natural
spaces.
   OPEN SPACE, PUBLIC. Any publicly owned open area including, but not limited
to, the following: parks; playgrounds; school sites; parkways; and streets.
   OWNER or PROPERTY OWNER. The owner of land or the beneficial owner of land,
whose interest is primarily one of ownership or possession and enjoyment in
contemplation of ultimate ownership. The term includes, but is not limited to,
mortgagees and vendees under a contract for deed.
   PARKING SPACE. A land area exclusive of driveways and aisles, of the shape
and dimensions and so prepared as to be suitably hard and usable for the
parking of a motor vehicle, and so located as to be readily accessible to a
public street or alley. Truck loading and unloading space shall not be included
in the area.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   PREMISES. A lot or plot with the required front, side and rear yards for a
dwelling or other uses as allowed under this chapter.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department or board
fully authorized to furnish under municipal regulation to the public,
electricity, gas, steam, communication services, telegraph services,
transportation or water.
   REST HOME. See NURSING HOME.
   ROAD. A public right-of-way affording primary access by pedestrian and
vehicles to abutting properties, whether designated as a street, highway,
thoroughfare, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, land, place or
however otherwise designated.
   SANITARY LANDFILL. A land deposit site employing an engineering method of
disposing of solid waste on land in a manner which minimizes environmental
hazards by spreading the solid waste in thin layers, compacting the solid waste
to the smallest possible volume, and applying cover material at the end of each
operating day or at the intervals as may be required by the state’s Pollution
Control Agency.
   SCREENING. The use of plants, materials, fences or earthen berms to
partially conceal the separate land use from the surrounding land uses.
   SETBACK LINE. A line within a lot or other parcel of land parallel to a
public road, street or highway right-of-way line defining that minimum distance
between the building and property line in which buildings or structures may not
be placed.
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display, illustration or device
which is affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure or land in view of the general public and which directs attention to
a product, place, activity, person, institution or business. Warning signs or
public identification signs such as street signs shall be exempt from these
regulations when under two square feet in size.
   SIGN, ADVERTISING. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, activity or entertainment not necessarily conducted, sold or offered
upon the premises where such a sign is located.
   SIGN, AREA OF. See SIGN, SURFACE AREA OF.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
or a commodity, service or entertainment sold or offered upon the premises
where such a sign is located.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign which directs attention to, and is located on,
real estate being offered for sale.
   SIGN, SURFACE AREA OF. The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of the actual sign surface, not including any
structural elements outside the limits of the sign and not forming an integral
part of this display. Only one side of a double-face or V-type sign structure
shall be used in computing total surface area.
   STANDARD, PERFORMANCE. A criterion established in the interest of protecting
the public health and safety for the control of noise, odor, smoke, noxious
gases and other objectionable or dangerous elements.
   STORY. The portion of the building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor above it or, if there is no floor above it,
the space between the floor the ceiling next above it.
   STREET. A public or private right-of-way 40 feet or more in width, approved
or accepted by public authority or user, which provides a primary means of
public access to abutting property. The term STREET shall include avenue,
drive, circle, road, parkway, boulevard, highway, thoroughfare or any other
similar terms.
   STREET LINE. The right-of-way line of a street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
permanent location on the ground or attachment to something having a permanent
location on the ground. When a structure is divided into separate parts by an
unpierced wall, each part shall be deemed a separate STRUCTURE.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial changes in
the roof and exterior walls.
   SUBDIVISION.
      (1)   A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided into
two or more lots or parcels or the division of a lot, tract or parcel of land
into two or more lots, tracts or parcels for the purpose of transferring
ownership or building development, or if a new street is involved, any division
or development of a parcel of land.
      (2)   The term shall include resubdivision of land; provided, however,
that, the sale or exchange of small parcels of platted land to or between
adjoining property owners shall be considered a SUBDIVISION.
   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling which maintains private ingress and
egress, attached to its own foundation, contains no independent dwellings above
or below it and is attached to other similar dwellings by a common wall.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular portable structure built on a chassis, designed
to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses,
permanently identified as TRAVEL TRAILER by the manufacturer of the trailer.
   USE. The purpose for which land or premises or a building is designated,
arranged or intended, or for which it is or may be occupied or maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use subordinate to the main use on the same lot and used
for purposes customarily incidental to those of the main use.
   USE, CONDITIONAL. A land use or development as defined by this chapter that
may be allowed with appropriate restrictions as provided by official controls
upon a finding that:
      (1)   Certain conditions as detailed in this chapter exist;
      (2)   The use or development conforms to the Land Use Plan of the city;
and
      (3)   Is compatible with the existing neighborhood.
   USE, PERMITTED. A public or private use which of itself conforms with the
purposes, objectives, requirements, regulations and performance standards of a
particular district.
   VACATION. The act of relinquishing a recorded dedication or easement as in a
street right-of-way, utility easement and the like.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the application of the zoning ordinance to a
specific lot where, because of unique physical circumstances, strict
enforcement would cause an undue hardship or practical difficulties in the use
of land. VARIANCES shall be limited to height, bulk, density and yard
requirements.
   WATERS OF THE CITY. All streams, lakes, ponds, pools, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through or border upon the city or any portion of the city.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between the side
yard lines and lying between the front street line of the lot and the nearest
line of the building.
   YARD, REAR. An open space unoccupied, except for accessory buildings on the
same lot with a building between the rear lines of the building and the rear
line of the lot, for the full width of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with a building,
between the building and the side line of the lot and extending from the front
lot line to the rear yard.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The designated Zoning Administrator of the city. The
duties of the Zoning Administrator are currently the responsibility of the
Maintenance Supervisor.
   ZONING LOT. A plot of ground, made up on one or more parcels of land, which
is or may be occupied by a use, building or buildings, including the open
spaces required by this chapter.
   ZONING MAP. The map or maps incorporated into this chapter, designating the
zoning districts.
(2001 Code, § 11.03)
CITY COUNCIL POWERS
§ 154.020 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The City Council is constituted and established as the authority to
determine all matters to deal with zoning.
   (B)   The Council shall keep a public record of its transactions, findings
and determinations.
(2001 Code, § 11.17)
§ 154.021 POWERS.
   (A)   The Council shall have power to grant a variance adjustment in and
exception to any of the provisions of this chapter to the extent of the
following and no further:
      (1)   To vary or modify the strict application of any of the regulations
or provisions contained in this chapter in cases in which there are practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the way of the strict applications. No
variance or modification of the uses permitted within a district shall be
allowed, except as otherwise provided in this chapter;
      (2)   To hear and determine appeals as to the exact boundaries of zoning
districts; and
      (3)   To permit the extension of a district where the boundary line
divides a lot in one ownership at the time for the passage of this chapter, but
the extension of any district shall not exceed 100 feet.
   (B)   The Council shall act upon all questions as they may arise in the
administration of any ordinance or official control, and it shall hear and
decide appeals from and review any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by an administrative official charged with enforcing any
ordinance adopted pursuant to the provisions of state statutes.
(2001 Code, § 11.17)
§ 154.022 APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeals may originate from any aggrieved person, firm or corporation
objecting to the ruling of any administrative official on the administering of
the provisions of this chapter or other ordinance adopted pursuant to the
provisions of state statutes.
   (B)   The appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved or by any officer or
department of the municipality.
   (C)   The decision of the Council shall not be final and any person having
an interest affected by the ordinance shall have the right to appeal to the
District Court.
(2001 Code, § 11.17)
§ 154.023 FINDINGS.
   The City Council shall not grant an application unless it finds the
following facts at the hearing where the applicant shall present a statement
and evidence in a form as the Council may require:
   (A)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the land,
building or use referred to in the appeal that do not apply generally to other
property in the same vicinity; and
   (B)   The granting of the application will not materially adversely affect
the health or safety of persons residing or working in the area adjacent to the
property of the applicant and will not be materially detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to property or improvements in the area adjacent to the
property of the applicant.
(2001 Code, § 11.17)
§ 154.024 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application under the provisions of this section shall be made to the
City Council. Upon receipt of any application, the City Council shall set a
time and place for a public hearing before the Board on the application.
   (B)   Written notice of the public hearing shall be sent to all property
owners or residents within 300 feet of the property. The public hearing shall
be given not more than 30 days, nor less than ten days, in advance by
publishing a notice in the official newspaper of the area. The notice shall
describe the particular variance and shall contain a description. Assessor tax
records and street addresses shall be deemed sufficient for location or
certification of ownership of the adjacent properties.
   (C)   (1)   The Council shall make its decision upon the application within
ten days of the public hearing. In recommending any adjustment or variance
under the provisions of this section, the Council shall designate the
conditions in connection as will, in its opinion, secure substantially the
objectives of the chapter, regulation or provision to which the adjustment of
variance is granted.
      (2)   The applicant for a variance which, in the opinion of the Board of
Adjustments, may result in a material adverse effect on the environment, may be
required to demonstrate the nature and extent of the effect.
(2001 Code, § 11.17)
CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS
§ 154.035 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Conditional use permits may be issued for any and only the uses or
purposes for which the permits are required or permitted by provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   An application for a conditional use permit shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator on a form prescribed by the City Council. At the option of
the Zoning Administrator and/or Planning Commission, the application shall be
accompanied by a site plan showing such information as is necessary to show
compliance with this chapter, including, but not limited to:
      (1)   Description of site (legal description);
      (2)   Site plan drawn at scale showing parcel and building dimensions;
      (3)   Location of all buildings and their square footage;
      (4)   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces, off-street
loading areas and sidewalks;
      (5)   Landscaping and screening plans;
      (6)   Drainage plan;
      (7)   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated use per day;
      (8)   Soil type; and
      (9)   Any additional date reasonably required by the Zoning Administrator
and/or the Planning Commission.
(2001 Code, § 11.15)
§ 154.036 NOTIFICATION AND PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Written notice shall be sent to all property owners or residents
within 300 feet of the property. Before approving a conditional use, a public
hearing shall be given not more than 30 days, nor less than ten days, in
advance by publishing a notice in the official newspaper of the area. This
notice shall describe the particular conditional use and shall contain a brief
description.
   (B)   Assessor tax records and street addresses shall be deemed sufficient
for location or certification of ownership of the adjacent properties.
(2001 Code, § 11.15)
§ 154.037 FINDINGS.
   (A)   For each application for a conditional use permit, the Planning
Commission shall report to the City Council its findings and recommendations,
including the stipulation of additional conditions or restrictions and
guarantees that the conditions or restrictions will be complied with when they
are deemed necessary for the protection of the public interest.
   (B)   No conditional use shall be recommended by the Planning Commission
unless the Commission shall find:
      (1)   The conditional use will not be injurious to the use and enjoyment
of the other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted, nor substantially diminish and impair property values within the
immediate vicinity, and is compatible with the existing neighborhood;
      (2)   The establishment of the conditional use will not impede the normal
and orderly development and improvement of surrounding vacant property for uses
predominant in the area and conforms to the Comprehensive Land Use Plan of the
county;
      (3)   Adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and other necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
      (4)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide sufficient
off-street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use;
      (5)   Adequate measures have been or will be taken to prevent or control
offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise and vibration, so that none of these will
constitute a nuisance, and to control lighted signs and other lights in a
manner that no disturbance to neighboring properties will result;
      (6)   Soil conditions are adequate to accommodate the proposed use; and
      (7)   Proper facilities are provided which would eliminate any traffic
congestion or traffic hazard, which may result from the proposed use.
(2001 Code, § 11.15)
§ 154.038 ACTION BY CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Upon the receipt of the report of the Planning Commission, the City
Council shall hold whatever additional public hearings it deems advisable and
shall decide whether to grant or deny the conditional use permit.
   (B)   (1)   If the City Council chooses to grant the permit, it may impose
restrictions or conditions in addition to or in substitution for any conditions
or restrictions recommended by the Planning Commission as it deems necessary to
protect the public interest.
      (2)   If the Planning Commission, in its recommendations to the City
Council, has indicated that the proposed conditional use may result in a
material adverse effect on the environment, the City Council may request that
the applicant for the permit demonstrate the nature and extent of the effect
before the City Council approves the permit.
   (C)   If approved and ordered by the City Council, the conditional use
permit shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator.
(2001 Code, § 11.15)
§ 154.039 FILING AND FEES.
   (A)   A certified copy of any conditional use permit shall be filed with the
City Clerk-Treasurer for record. The conditional use permit shall include the
legal description of the property involved.
   (B)   To defray administrative costs of processing requests for conditional
use permits, a fee shall be paid by the applicant. The conditional use permit
fee shall be set annually by the City Council.
(2001 Code, § 11.15)
§ 154.040 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Any use permitted under the terms of any conditional use permit shall
be established and conducted in conformity with the terms of the permit and any
conditions designated. The conditional use permit shall remain in effect only
so long as the terms and conditions agreed upon are observed.
   (B)   The City Council shall revoke a conditional use permit when it
determines that the terms and conditions of the permit as issued are no longer
being complied with. A certified copy of an order of the city revoking a
conditional use permit shall be filed with the County Recorder for record.
(2001 Code, § 11.15)
VARIANCES
§ 154.055 GENERAL.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation or any other organization or entity
having an interest in real property which is subject to the provision of this
chapter may apply to the City Council for a variance from those provisions, in
accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   The City Council shall have the exclusive power to order the issuance
of variances.
   (C)   No variance shall be granted that would allow any use that is
prohibited in the zoning district in which the subject property is located.
(2001 Code, § 11.16)
§ 154.056 GROUNDS FOR VARIANCE.
   (A)   A variance shall be granted only when:
      (1)   It is in harmony with the general purpose and intent of this
chapter; and
      (2)   There are practical difficulties or a particular hardship in the
strict application of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The terms “difficulties” and “hardship”, as used in division (A)(2)
above, mean that the property in question cannot be put to a reasonable use if
used under the conditions allowed by this chapter.
   (C)   The plight of the applicant for a variance must be due to
circumstances unique to the property and not created by the applicant, and it
must be related to the property rather than to a personal preference or
idiosyncrasy of the applicant.
   (D)   Economic considerations alone shall not constitute a difficulty or
hardship for the purpose of granting a variance if a reasonable use for the
property exists under the terms of this chapter.
   (E)   The variance, if granted, shall not alter the eventual character of
the locality.
   (F)   In granting a variance the City Council may impose further conditions
as it deems necessary to ensure compliance with the provisions of this chapter
and to protect adjacent properties and the public interest.
   (G)   The applicant for a variance which, in the opinion of the City
Council, may result in a material adverse effect on the environment, may be
requested by the Council to demonstrate the nature and extent of the effect
before the Council grants the variance.
(2001 Code, § 11.16)
§ 154.057 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   (1)   An application for a variance shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator on the form prescribed for that purpose by the City Council. The
application must contain the name of the applicant, a legal description of the
affected property and the applicant’s relationship and interest in the project,
the specific provision or provisions of the chapter from which the variance is
requested, and the grounds which must be in accordance with the provisions of
this subchapter and must be signed by the applicant.
      (2)   At the option of the Zoning Administrator and/or the City Council,
the application shall be accompanied by a site plan showing pertinent
information including, but not limited to:
         (a)   Description of site (legal description);
         (b)   Site plan drawn at scale showing parcel and building dimensions;
         (c)   Location of all buildings and their square footage;
         (d)   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces, off-street
loading areas and sidewalks;
         (e)   Landscaping and screening plans;
         (f)   Drainage plan;
         (g)   Sanitary sewer and water plan with estimated use per day;
         (h)   Soil type; and
         (i)   Any additional data reasonably required by the Zoning
Administrator and/or by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council, upon receipt of a proper application for a
variance shall set a time and place for a public hearing before the Council on
the application.
      (2)   At least ten days in advance of any hearing, notice of the time,
place and purpose of the hearing shall be published in the official newspaper
of the city.
   (C)   (1)   Written notice of the public hearing shall be sent to all
property owners or residents within 300 feet of the property. The public
hearing shall be given not more than 30 days, nor less than ten days, in
advance by publishing a notice in the official newspaper of the area. The
notice shall describe the particular variance and shall contain a description.
      (2)   Assessor tax records and street addresses shall be deemed
sufficient for location or certification of ownership of the adjacent
properties.
   (D)   The City Council may continue the hearing concerning the application
for a variance, or it may hold additional hearings as it deems advisable. The
Board of Adjustment shall issue its order concerning the application within ten
days of the conclusion of the hearing relating to any given application.
   (E)   A certified copy of an order of the City Council either granting or
denying an application for a variance shall be filed for record. The order
issued by the Council shall be in writing, giving the reasons for the decision
and shall include a legal description of the property involved.
   (F)   All decisions by the Council in granting or denying a variance shall
be final except that any aggrieved person or persons, or any department, board
or commission within the county or state shall have the right to appeal, within
30 days, after receipt of notice of the Council’s decision, to the District
Court on questions of law and fact.
(2001 Code, § 11.16)
§ 154.058 FEES.
   To defray administrative costs of processing/requests for variances, a fee
shall be paid by the applicant. The fee for a variance shall be set annually by
the City Council.
(2001 Code, § 11.16)
ZONING PERMITS
§ 154.070 APPLICATION.
   Except as provided, no person, firm or corporation shall construct, erect,
alter, wreck or move any building or structure or any parts within the
corporate limits of the city without first securing a zoning permit from the
city. A zoning permit certifies that the proposed construction is in compliance
with this chapter. Application for the zoning permit shall be made to the
city’s Clerk-Treasurer or Zoning Administrator.
(2001 Code, § 11.18)
§ 154.071 ISSUING OF PERMITS.
   (A)   A zoning permit must be issued by the city prior to any construction
activity. The city will collect the fee for the zoning permit application
according to the following schedule. At no time, nor under any circumstances,
will a zoning permit be issued until the appropriate fee has been paid by the
applicant and the application has been approved by the Planning Commission or
the City Council. Zoning permits shall expire one year from the date of which
the zoning permit was approved.
   (B)   Below is the process to which individuals must adhere when applying
for a zoning permit.
      (1)   Individual(s) requesting the permit must contact the office of the
city’s Clerk-Treasurer, or contact the Zoning Administrator, to secure a zoning
permit application form.
      (2)   The application form must be completed in its entirety and the
appropriate fee must be paid to the city’s Clerk-Treasurer prior to the permit
request being placed on the Planning Commission agenda. A site plan drawn to
scale showing all dimensions must accompany the completed application.
      (3)   Upon its submittal to the Zoning Administrator, the application
will be reviewed with the applicant. If the property is properly zoned, the
application will be placed on the agenda of the Planning Commission for action
at its meeting. If the existing use of the property is not a permitted use, but
rather a conditional use, one which would require a variance or amendment to
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances, the Zoning Administrator will take the
following action(s):
         (a)   Determine which special request is required to be taken to the
Planning Commission;
         (b)   Inform the applicant as to the process of the request; and
         (c)   Based on the applicant’s decision, the city’s Clerk-Treasurer
will collect the appropriate special fee from the applicant and follow the
procedures outlined in
Ch. 154 of this code of ordinances.
            1.   Sections
154.035 through
154.040 for conditional use permits;
            2.   Sections
154.055 through
154.058 for variance requests; and
            3.   Sections
154.090 through
154.094 for amendments (rezoning).
      (4)   All zoning permit/special application fee(s) must be paid in
advance in order to be placed on the agenda. Once the application is placed on
the Planning Commission agenda, the Planning Commission will act and the Zoning
Administrator will issue the permit. In the event of special requests, both the
Planning Commission and the City Council must act on the application before the
permit is issued by the Zoning Administrator.
      (5)   If an amendment to the site plan is desired, the applicant must
submit an amended site plan to the Zoning Administrator prior to commencing
with construction. Under no circumstances will a change in site plan be
approved unless an amended site plan is submitted to and approved by the
Planning Commission.
      (6)   During construction activity, the permit should be displayed in a
conspicuous place at the construction site, in plain view and accessible to the
Zoning Administrator.
(2001 Code, § 11.18)
§ 154.072 SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   Fees, charges and expenses for zoning permits, conditional use
permits, variances and amendments shall be set annually by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses, and a collection procedure, for zoning permits, appeals and other
matters pertaining to this chapter. The schedule of fees shall be posted in the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   No zoning permit, conditional use permit or variance shall be
issued unless or until the costs, charges, fees or expenses have been paid in
full, nor shall any action be taken on proceedings before the Council unless or
until preliminary charges and fees have been paid in full.
(2001 Code, § 11.18)
§ 154.073 IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRING A ZONING PERMIT.
   (A)   General provisions. A zoning permit is required for any new
residential, commercial and/or industrial construction as well as any
improvement which will enlarge the physical exterior of the existing structure.
   (B)   Masonry.
      (1)   Chimney: replace; permit is required if chimney is to be replaced
in its entirety;
      (2)   Chimney: new;
      (3)   Concrete steps: repair; permit is required only if 50% or more of
structure is to be repaired;
      (4)   Concrete steps: replace;
      (5)   Concrete steps: precast;
      (6)   Driveway: new asphalt blacktop; drainage plan is required as well;
      (7)   Driveway: new concrete; drainage plan is required as well;
      (8)   Foundation: install;
      (9)   Foundation: tile;
      (10)   Foundation: water-proofing; permit is required if waterproofing
entails the replacement of drainage tile and/or exterior waterproof painting;
      (11)   Service walk: repair; permit is required only if 50% or more of
structure is being repaired; and
      (12)   Service walk: replace.
   (C)   Carpentry.
      (1)   Porch, patio or deck: permit is required if 50% or more of the
structure is repaired or replaced;
      (2)   Stairs: exterior; permit is required if 50% or more of structure is
repaired or replaced; and
      (3)   Stairs: exterior basement; permit is required if the stairs are new
(i.e., not replacement).
   (D)   Plumbing. Sump pit and pump: for installation only; repair is not
included.
   (E)   Specialty work.
      (1)   Demolition: permit required at no charge;
      (2)   Fences: permits are required to erect any fence in all districts
within the city. (See lot survey requirements, §
154.160 of this chapter.) This includes fences used for dog kennels;
      (3)   Utility shed: permits are required for assembly or moving onto lot;
and
      (4)   Utility shed: permit required for removal at no charge.
   (F)   Site work.
      (1)   Excavation; and
      (2)   Changing grades.
(2001 Code, § 11.18)
§ 154.074 REQUIRED INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   If any building deemed for public occupancy (i.e., school, church,
commercial property) is constructed or renovated, the property owner must have
any plumbing, heating, ventilation and electrical work, which was part of the
construction/renovation process, inspected. A form bearing the inspector’s
signature approving the work must be placed on file with the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   Any public building, as defined by state statutes, constructed or
remodeled in the city must comply with the State Building Code requirements for
handicapped persons. If the building is constructed or remodeled within the
corporate limits, the city shall contract with a certified building inspector
to enforce this provision of the state’s Building Code. A form bearing the
inspector’s signature approving the work must be placed on file with the City
Clerk-Treasurer.
(2001 Code, § 11.18)
§ 154.075 COMPLAINTS REGARDING VIOLATIONS.
   Whenever a violation of this city code occurs, or is alleged to have
occurred, any person may file a written complaint. The complaint stating fully
the causes and basis shall be filed with the city’s Clerk-Treasurer. The city’s
Clerk-Treasurer shall record properly the complaint and forward it to the
Zoning Administrator for immediate investigation and action as provided by this
chapter.
(2001 Code, § 11.18)
AMENDMENTS
§ 154.090 APPLICATION.
   (A)   This chapter may be amended whenever the public necessity and the
general welfare require the amendment by following the procedure specified in
this subchapter.
   (B)   Proceedings for amendment of this chapter shall be initiated by:
      (1)   A petition of the affected property owners. For purposes of this
subchapter, AFFECTED PROPERTY OWNERS shall refer to owners of the property
specified on the application;
      (2)   A recommendation of the Planning Commission; and
      (3)   Action of the City Council.
   (C)   An application for an amendment shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator on forms as shall be provided by the Zoning Administrator.
(2001 Code, § 11.19)
§ 154.091 PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   Written notice of the public hearing shall be sent to all property
owners or residents within 500 feet of the property.
   (B)   The public hearing shall be given not more than 30 days nor less than
ten days in advance by publishing a notice in the official newspaper of the
area.
   (C)   The notice shall describe the particular amendment and shall contain a
description.
   (D)   Assessor tax records and street addresses shall be deemed sufficient
for location or certification of ownership of the adjacent properties.
(2001 Code, § 11.19)
§ 154.092 AUTHORIZATION.
   (A)   (1)   Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall make
a report of its findings and recommendations on the proposed amendment and
shall file a copy with the city’s Clerk-Treasurer within 60 days after the
hearing.
      (2)   If no report or recommendation is transmitted by the Planning
Commission within 60 days after the hearing, the City Council may take action
without awaiting the recommendation.
   (B)   Upon the filing of the report or recommendation, the City Council may
hold the public hearings upon the amendment as it deems advisable. After the
conclusion of the hearings, if any, the City Council may adopt the amendment or
any part of it in a form as it deems advisable. The amendment shall be
effective only if a majority of all members of the City Council concur in its
passage.
(2001 Code, § 11.19)
§ 154.093 RECORDING.
   (A)   Upon adoption of any ordinance or other official control including any
maps or charts so supplemented, the city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall file a
certified copy with the County Recorder.
   (B)   Ordinances, resolutions, maps or regulations filed with the County
Recorder pursuant to this chapter do not constitute encumbrances on real
property.
(2001 Code, § 11.19)
§ 154.094 FEES.
   (A)   To defray administrative costs of processing requests for an amendment
to this chapter, a fee shall be paid by the petitioner.
   (B)   The zoning amendment fee shall be set annually by the City Council.
(2001 Code, § 11.19)
ZONING INSTRUMENTS
§ 154.105 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this
chapter are set forth on the Zoning Map and the map is made a part of this
chapter, which map shall be known as the “City of Good Thunder Zoning Map”.
   (B)   The map and all notations, references and data shown are incorporated
by reference into this chapter and shall be as much a part of it as if all were
fully described.
   (C)   It shall be the responsibility of the City Clerk-Treasurer/City
Council to maintain the map, and amendments shall all be recorded on the Zoning
Map within 30 days after official publication of amendments.
   (D)   The official Zoning Map shall be kept on file in the City Council
chambers.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cfdeffb23cf8877feef25fd3f5d7252adc8d2280/
IMAGES/0-0-0-983.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/cfdeffb23cf8877feef25fd3f5d7252adc8d2280/
IMAGES/0-0-0-985.jpg]
 
(2001 Code, § 11.04)
§ 154.106 REPLACEMENT OF ZONING MAP.
   In the event that the Zoning Map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost or because
of the nature or number of changes and additions, the City Council may, by
resolution, adopt a new Zoning Map, which shall supersede the Zoning Map. The
new Zoning Map may correct drafting and other errors or omissions in the prior
Zoning Map, but no corrections shall have the effect of amending the original
Zoning Ordinance, or any subsequent amendment. The signature of the Mayor,
attested by the words: “This is to certify that this Zoning Map supersedes and
replaces the Zoning Map adopted (date of adoption of map being replaced) as
part of this chapter of the City of Good Thunder” shall identify the new Zoning
Map.
(2001 Code, § 11.04)
§ 154.107 DISTRICT BOUNDARY LINES.
   Wherever any uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any land use district
as shown on the Zoning Map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as following streets,
highways, alleys, railroads or similar rights-of-way, they shall be construed
as following the centerlines.
   (B)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as approximately following
lot lines or section lines, the lines shall be construed to be such boundaries.
   (C)   Where district boundary lines are indicated as parallel to or
extensions of features indicated above in this section, it shall be so
construed.
   (D)   Distances not specifically indicated on the Zoning Map shall be
determined by the scale of the map.
   (E)   Where physical or cultural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the Zoning Map, or in other circumstances not
covered by this section, the City Council shall interpret the district
boundaries.
   (F)   Where a plotted lot held in one ownership and of record at the
effective date of this chapter is divided by a district boundary line, the
entire lot shall be construed to be within the least restrictive district.
(2001 Code, § 11.04)
§ 154.108 ANNEXATIONS.
   All territory annexed to the city, which is not shown on the Zoning Map as
part of this chapter, shall automatically, upon annexation, be classified
within the A-1 Agriculture District. It shall be subject to all regulations,
notations, references and conditions applicable to the zone until the time that
a determination may be made as to the proper district classification and an
amendment can be made to this chapter to that effect.
(2001 Code, § 11.04)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.120 A-1 AGRICULTURE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This district is established to preserve the present
agricultural lands and maintain other lands in a natural state and permit low-
density residential development where the development is in accordance with the
Land Use Plan and where municipal utilities are not available.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted within the A-
1 Agriculture District:
      (1)   Agriculture, farming and truck gardening; provided that, no
agricultural building or accessory feedlot shall be located within 100 feet of
any lot line abutting residential property;
      (2)   One- and two-family non-farm detached dwellings;
      (3)   Flood control and watershed structures;
      (4)   Golf courses, except clubhouses;
      (5)   Railroad rights-of-way, but not including switching, storage,
freight yards, shops or industrial buildings;
      (6)   Parks, recreational areas, wildlife areas, game refuges and forest
preserves owned by governmental agencies; and
      (7)   Nurseries and greenhouses for growing plants.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses are permitted if granted a
conditional use permit as provided in §§
154.035 through
154.040 of this chapter:
      (1)   Municipal administration buildings, police and fire stations,
libraries, museums, art galleries, post offices, and other municipal services
buildings, except those customarily considered industrial in use; providing
that, no building shall be located within 50 feet of any lot in a residential
district;
      (2)   Water supply buildings, reservoirs, wells, elevated tanks and
similar essential public utility and service structures;
      (3)   Golf clubhouse, country club, public swimming pool, private
swimming pool serving more than one family; provided that, no principal
structure shall be located within 50 feet of any lot in a residential district;
      (4)   Offices of professional persons as a home occupation;
      (5)   Mineral, stone or gravel extraction;
      (6)   Organized group camps, schools;
      (7)   Riding stables and academies;
      (8)   Mobile homes if part of farm operation;
      (9)   Commercial livestock and poultry feeding operations; provided, they
are in compliance with the state minimum standards as per state statutes;
      (10)   Veterinary and animal clinics and facilities for the care and/or
breeding of animals, including kennels;
      (11)   Private commercial landing fields and associated facilities;
      (12)   Sanitary landfills, cemeteries;
      (13)   Confined feedlots as regulated by county and state regulations;
and
      (14)   Uses determined by the Planning Commission of similar nature to
the conditional uses above and found not to be detrimental to the general
health and welfare of the city.
   (D)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Private garages and carports;
      (2)   Private recreation facilities such as tennis courts and swimming
pools; provided that, the pool is completely enclosed within a chainlink or
similar fence at least five feet in height and is intended for the use and
convenience of the residents;
      (3)   Tool houses and sheds or similar storage buildings for domestic
supplies; and
      (4)   Accessory buildings or structures, which are clearly incidental to
any of the uses listed above, but must be located on the same property.
   (E)   Height regulations.
      (1)   Agriculture buildings: none required; and
      (2)   All other buildings shall not exceed two and one-half stories or 35
feet in height.
   (F)   Front yard regulations. For all uses allowed, there shall be a front
yard having depth of not less than 50 feet. Where a lot is located at the
intersection of two or more streets, there shall be a front yard on each street
side of each corner lot.
   (G)   Side yard regulations. For all uses allowed, there shall be a side
yard on each side of a building having a width of not less than 30 feet.
   (H)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 25% of the depth of the lot or 25 feet, whichever is greater.
   (I)   Lot area regulations. Every lot or tract of land upon which a
structure is erected shall have an area of not less than one acre unless it is
connected to municipal utilities. If a lot or tract has less area or width than
that required and was legally platted and was of record at the time of the
passage of this chapter in 1996, that lot may be used for any of the uses
permitted in this section.
   (J)   Lot width and depth regulations. Every lot or plot of land on which a
one-family-dwelling is erected shall have a minimum width of not less than 200
feet and a depth of not less than 200 feet. No lot shall have a depth greater
than three times its width.
   (K)   General regulations. Additional regulations applicable to the A-
1 Agricultural District are set forth in §§
154.140 through
154.167 of this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 11.05)
§ 154.121 R-1 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-1 District is intended to provide low density
residential areas, apartments and other buildings of three or more dwelling
units, in those areas where the development corresponds to the Land Use Plan,
where properly related to other land uses and thoroughfares, and where adequate
municipal utilities are available.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted in R-
1 Residential District:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, multiple-family dwellings and apartment
buildings, and manufactured homes as defined by the approved minimum
residential structure requirements, §
154.163 of this chapter;
      (2)   Parks and recreational areas owned or operated by governmental
agencies;
      (3)   Public schools, private schools, nursery schools, churches,
hospitals, nursery and convalescent homes; and
      (4)   Home occupations.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Buildings or land may be used for the following if
granted a conditional use permit:
      (1)   Earth-sheltered residential buildings;
      (2)   Municipal administration buildings, police and fire stations,
museums, art galleries, post offices and other municipal service buildings;
      (3)   Water supply buildings, reservoirs, wells, elevated tanks and
similar essential public utility and service structures;
      (4)   Railroad right-of-way, but not including railroad yards;
      (5)   Boarding or rental rooms not exceeding five to eight persons on a
premises;
      (6)   Hospitals and clinics;
      (7)   Open land recreational uses;
      (8)   Charitable institutions; and
      (9)   Uses determined by the Planning Commission to be of the general
character of the conditional uses above and found not to be detrimental to the
general health and welfare of the city.
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following uses shall be accessory uses within the
R-1 Residential District:
      (1)   Private garages and carports;
      (2)   Private swimming pools. Either permanent or temporary, with a depth
of water over two feet, intended for the use of the residents, when conforming
to the following standards.
         (a)   Pools shall not be located within ten feet of any side or rear
lot line nor within six feet of any principal structure or frost footing. Pools
shall not be located within any front yard.
         (b)   Pools shall not be located beneath overhead electrical lines or
over underground utility lines of any type.
         (c)   Pools shall not be located within any private or public utility,
walkway, drainage or other easement.
         (d)   The filter unit, pump, heating unit and any other noise making
mechanical equipment shall be located at least 30 feet from any adjacent
residential structure and not closer than five feet to any lot line.
         (e)   Lighting for the pool shall be directed toward the pool and not
toward adjacent property.
         (f)   A security fence at least five feet in height shall completely
enclose the area in which an outdoor pool is located.
         (g)   All construction of swimming pools shall be subject to the
submission of a site plan and obtaining a zoning permit.
      (3)   Parking of one commercial motor vehicle of not over 26-foot length
used by the resident occupant, and parking of passenger cars, but not including
the storage of vehicles which are inoperable or for sale or rent. All such
vehicles must be parked on authorized parking surfaces as defined in this
chapter. If not, they will be unauthorized vehicles and not permitted as an
accessory use.
   (E)   Height regulations.
      (1)   No structure shall exceed two and one-half stories or 30 feet in
height; except that, church spires, belfries, domes which do not contain usable
space, and chimneys may be of any height which does not conflict with air
traffic requirements.
      (2)   For multiple-family dwellings, structures shall not exceed three
stories or 45 feet in height.
   (F)   Front yard regulations.
      (1)   Front yards shall have a depth of not less than 30 feet. However,
in a block where two or more residences have been erected facing the same
street, the setback for remaining lots in that block fronting on the same
street shall be determined by the average setback of existing buildings.
      (2)   For multiple-family dwellings, a front yard shall have a depth of
not less than 30 feet. However, any portion of a building exceeding three
stories in height shall have an additional front yard setback of one foot for
every one foot that the building exceeds the height of 30 feet.
      (3)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more roads or
highways, there shall be a front yard setback on each road or highway side of
the corner lot. No accessory buildings shall be allowed within the required
front yard.
   (G)   Side yard regulations.
      (1)   Each lot shall have two side yards, each yard having a width of not
less than six feet on each side of the building.
      (2)   For multiple-family dwellings, there shall be a side yard having a
width of not less than 15 feet on each side of the building.
   (H)   Rear yard regulations.
      (1)   Each lot shall have an unoccupied rear yard having a depth of not
less than 25% of the lot depth. Accessory buildings such as non-attached
garages and structures used for storage of non-commercial property shall be
located no less than four feet from the property line and not less than four
feet from an alley.
      (2)   For multiple-family dwellings, there shall be a rear yard of not
less than 25 feet or 25% of the lot depth, whichever is greater.
   (I)   Lot size regulations.
      (1)   Every lot on which a one- or two-family dwelling is erected shall
contain an area of not less than 7,000 square feet. No lot shall have more than
5% of its space devoted to parking space and driveways.
      (2)   For multiple-family dwellings, the minimum lot area per dwelling
unit shall not be less than 2,000 square feet. However, public housing for the
elderly projects and privately sponsored private housing for the elderly
projects built and occupied to the same standards, require only 1,000 square
feet per dwelling unit.
      (3)   Every lot on which a one- or two-family dwelling is erected shall
not be less than 75 feet in width. Lots fronting on curvilinear streets shall
have a minimum frontage of 50 feet and a 75-foot width at the building line.
      (4)   The lot area and width regulations of this section shall not apply
to lots recorded prior to the adoption of this chapter. However, the lots shall
not be altered in any way which would further reduce their dimensions below the
minimum requirements of this section, and no lot in conformance with the
provisions of this section shall be reduced or resubdivided to produce a lot
not in full conformance with this section.
   (J)   Maximum ground coverage. For multiple-family dwellings, not more than
35% of a lot or plot shall be occupied by buildings. No lot shall have more
than 5% of its space devoted to parking space and driveways.
   (K)   Permit regulations. No zoning permit for a multiple-family dwelling
may be issued unless the permit application is accompanied by a site plan. The
site plan shall include topography, location of parking and loading spaces,
landscaping, screening and other information pertinent to the development of
the site.
   (L)   General regulations. Additional regulations applicable to the R-
1 Residential District are set forth in §§
154.140 through
154.167 of this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 11.06)
§ 154.122 R-2 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DISTRICT.
   R-2 Manufactured Home Park Districts shall not be allowed in the city.
(2001 Code, § 11.07)
§ 154.123 B-1 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The B-1 Highway Business District is designed and intended to
promote the development of uses which require large concentrations of
automobile traffic. The district is also designed to accommodate those
commercial activities, which require larger amounts of land and which may be
incompatible with the predominantly retail uses permitted in other business
districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted within the B-
1 Highway Business District:
      (1)   Agriculture and agri-related uses;
      (2)   Armories, convention halls and exhibition halls;
      (3)   Automobile, truck and farm implement dealers, new and used vehicle
lots, boat and boat trailer lots;
      (4)   Automobile service stations;
      (5)   Bowling alleys;
      (6)   Bus stations;
      (7)   Dance halls;
      (8)   Dairy stores;
      (9)   Dry cleaning establishments;
      (10)   Feed and fertilizer sales;
      (11)   Grocery, fruit, vegetable and meat stores;
      (12)   Greenhouses, nurseries and garden stores;
      (13)   Laundromats;
      (14)   Laboratories, medical and dental;
      (15)   Lumber yards and building materials;
      (16)   Marine and boat sales and servicing establishments;
      (17)   Miniature golf courses;
      (18)   Motels, hotels and camping facilities;
      (19)   Municipal service and utility buildings to include water treatment
plants, transformers and relay stations, fire stations, highway department
vehicle and equipment garages and storage;
      (20)   Newspaper distribution agencies;
      (21)   Pets and animal hospitals;
      (22)   Public utility structures;
      (23)   Restaurants;
      (24)   Skating rinks;
      (25)   Taverns;
      (26)   Theaters, drive-ins;
      (27)   Single-family residences when attached to and associated with a
highway business; and
      (28)   Cartage and express facilities.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses shall be conditional uses within
the B-1 Highway Business District: any commercial use of the same general
character as those listed as “permitted use” in this chapter.
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following uses shall be accessory uses within the
B-1 Highway Business District:
      (1)   Accessory uses customarily incidental to the uses permitted in
divisions (B) and (C) above; and
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated in §§
154.180 through
154.196 of this chapter.
   (E)   Height regulations. No building shall be erected or structurally
altered to exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height.
   (F)   Front yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard setback of not less than 65 feet from
the centerline of all state and county highways and all other public rights-of-
way.
      (2)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more roads or
highways, there shall be a front yard setback on each road or highway side of
each corner lot. No accessory buildings shall project beyond the yard setback
line of either road.
   (G)   Side yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a side yard having a width of not less than 15 feet
on each side of a building.
      (2)   No building shall be located within 30 feet of any side lot line
abutting a lot located in a residential district.
   (H)   Rear yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than 15 feet.
      (2)   No building shall be located within 30 feet of any rear lot line
abutting a lot located in a residential district.
   (I)   Lot area regulations. Every lot or plot of land shall contain an area
of not less than 10,000 square feet.
   (J)   Lot width regulations. Every lot or plot of land shall have a width of
not less than 100 feet abutting a public right-of-way.
   (K)   Lot coverage regulations. Buildings shall occupy not more than 50% of
the lot or plot of land.
   (L)   General regulations. Additional requirements applicable to the Highway
Business District are set forth in §§
154.140 through
154.167 of this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 11.08)
§ 154.124 B-2 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The B-2 General Business District is intended to serve the
community by providing a district for high density retail sales, business and
personal services, business and professional offices, and for specialized
businesses dependent upon a high volume of pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted within the B-
2 General Business District:
      (1)   Antique stores;
      (2)   Apparel and accessory stores;
      (3)   Appliance stores, sales and service;
      (4)   Art supply stores;
      (5)   Art galleries;
      (6)   Artist studio or schools;
      (7)   Bakeries, retail;
      (8)   Banks, including drive-in banks;
      (9)   Bars, including lounges, nightclubs, on-sale liquor establishments;
      (10)   Barber and beauty shops;
      (11)   Billboards and signs (as regulated in §§
154.210 through
154.214 of this chapter);
      (12)   Bookstores;
      (13)   Business machines stores;
      (14)   Camera and photographic supply stores;
      (15)   Candy, ice cream and confectionery stores;
      (16)   Clinics, dental or medical;
      (17)   Dairy stores;
      (18)   Delicatessen stores;
      (19)   Department stores;
      (20)   Dressmakers, seamstresses;
      (21)   Drugstores;
      (22)   Floral sales;
      (23)   Furniture stores and home furnishings;
      (24)   Garden supplies stores;
      (25)   Gas stations or garages;
      (26)   Gift stores, novelty or souvenir;
      (27)   Government or municipal buildings;
      (28)   Grocery stores;
      (29)   Hardware stores;
      (30)   Health equipment stores;
      (31)   Hobby shops;
      (32)   Interior decorators;
      (33)   Jewelry stores;
      (34)   Laboratories, dental or medical;
      (35)   Laundromats;
      (36)   Liquor stores (off-sale);
      (37)   Locksmiths;
      (38)   Luggage stores;
      (39)   Meat markets and frozen food lockers;
      (40)   Mortuaries;
      (41)   Motels, hotels or boarding houses;
      (42)   Music stores, hotels or boarding houses;
      (43)   Offices of any type;
      (44)   Opticians;
      (45)   Optical goods;
      (46)   Paint and wallpaper stores;
      (47)   Photographic studios or picture processing;
      (48)   Repair, rental and servicing of any article the sale of which is
permitted in this district;
      (49)   Restaurants, cafés or taverns;
      (50)   Shoe repair shops;
      (51)   Sporting goods stores;
      (52)   Stationery stores;
      (53)   Tailors;
      (54)   Telephone exchanges;
      (55)   Theaters, not including drive-in theaters;
      (56)   Toy stores;
      (57)   Travel bureaus or agencies;
      (58)   Variety stores;
      (59)   Parking lots and garages other than those necessary to a principal
use for the parking of automobiles only;
      (60)   Public utility service stores;
      (61)   Leather goods and luggage shops; and
      (62)   Libraries.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following conditional uses may be allowed in the
B-2 General Business District:
      (1)   Armories;
      (2)   Bowling alleys;
      (3)   Dance halls;
      (4)   Skating arenas;
      (5)   Bus terminals; and
      (6)   Any other business activities of the same general character as
listed in division (B) above.
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following shall be accessory uses within the B-
2 General Business District: accessory uses incidental to and located on the
same lot as the uses permitted in divisions (B) and (C) above.
   (E)   Height regulations. No building shall be erected or structurally
altered to exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in height.
   (F)   Front yard regulations. No front yard setback shall be required.
   (G)   Side yard regulations. No side yard shall be required, except where a
building abuts upon a lot in a residential district, then a 15-foot yard
setback shall be required.
   (H)   Rear yard regulations. No rear yard shall be required, except where a
building abuts upon a lot in a residential district, then a 15-foot rear yard
setback shall be required.
   (I)   Lot width. A minimum lot width of 30 feet shall be required.
   (J)   Lot depth. A lot depth of 50 feet shall be required.
   (K)   General regulations. Additional requirements applicable to the B-
2 General Business District are set forth in §§
154.140 through
154.167 of this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 11.09)
§ 154.125 I-1 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The I-1 Industrial District is intended to encourage
industrial development in the appropriate areas of the city. These uses shall
maintain a high level of performance and appearance, including open spaces and
landscaping and encourage development that is compatible with surrounding
abutting districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses shall be permitted within the I-
1 Industrial District:
      (1)   Aircraft rental, sales, servicing, manufacturing and related
activities;
      (2)   Antennas for radio, television and broadcasting facilities;
      (3)   Art equipment supplies manufacture;
      (4)   Bags, boxes and paper containers, manufacturing and storage;
      (5)   Bakery products, wholesale;
      (6)   Bottling establishments;
      (7)   Blank books, looseleaf binders (fabrication and assembly);
      (8)   Books and binding;
      (9)   Building materials sales and storage, lumber yards;
      (10)   Cabinet and woodworking establishments;
      (11)   Cartage and express facilities;
      (12)   Clothing manufacturers;
      (13)   Camera and photographic manufacturing;
      (14)   Cold storage plants, commercial printing, publishing, engraving
and reproduction firms;
      (15)   Confectionery and related products, manufacture and packaging;
      (16)   Dental instruments and supplies;
      (17)   Dry cleaning and dying establishments;
      (18)   Electric lighting and wiring equipment manufacturers;
      (19)   Electric measuring and testing equipment manufacturers;
      (20)   Electronic measuring and testing equipment (manufacturers);
      (21)   Electrical products and appliances (manufacture and assembly);
      (22)   Farm implement sales and storage;
      (23)   Footwear (manufacture and fabrication);
      (24)   Freight terminal;
      (25)   Frozen food lockers;
      (26)   Hand and edge tools (except machine tools) manufacture and
assembly;
      (27)   Hardware warehousing and distribution operations;
      (28)   Highway maintenance shops and yards;
      (29)   Ice plants and ice cream plants;
      (30)   Jewelry manufacturers;
      (31)   Laboratory instruments and associated equipment, scientific and
testing;
      (32)   Laundries, large scale;
      (33)   Luggage, handbags and similar items (manufacture and assembly);
      (34)   Mail order houses;
      (35)   Medical and surgical instruments and supplies;
      (36)   Newspaper plants and offices;
      (37)   Office furniture and supplies;
      (38)   Optical instruments and lenses (manufacture and assembly);
      (39)   Patterns (design and manufacture);
      (40)   Pottery shops;
      (41)   Precision instruments;
      (42)   Plastic extrusion molding and fixtures;
      (43)   Plumbing fixtures and equipment (wholesale/retail);
      (44)   Radio and television (assembly and parts fabrication);
      (45)   Signs and billboards (as regulated in §§
154.210 through
154.214 of this chapter);
      (46)   Sport equipment (manufacture and assembly);
      (47)   Scientific and research instruments and equipment (manufacture and
assembly);
      (48)   Telephone and telegraph apparatus (manufacture and assembly);
      (49)   Temperature controls (fabrication and assembly);
      (50)   Trade schools;
      (51)   Welding supply;
      (52)   Wholesale business facilities; and
      (53)   Warehousing facilities.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed in the I-
1 Industrial District:
      (1)   Grain elevators;
      (2)   Electrical substations;
      (3)   Planned industrial parks;
      (4)   Any manufacturing, production, processing, cleaning, storage,
servicing, repair and testing of materials, goods or products similar to those
listed in division (B) above, which conform with the performance standards set
forth for this district;
      (5)   Contractors offices, shops and yards for plumbing, heating,
glazing, painting, roofing, ventilating, air conditioning, masonry, electrical
and refrigeration;
      (6)   Fuel sales and storage (bulk);
      (7)   Monument works;
      (8)   General manufacturing and fabrication facilities;
      (9)   Junk yards, salvage yards, dumping grounds;
      (10)   Extraction, processing and storage of sand, gravel, stone or other
material;
      (11)   Acid manufacture;
      (12)   Cement, lime, gypsum or plaster of Paris manufacture;
      (13)   Distillation operations;
      (14)   Fat rendering;
      (15)   Fertilizer manufacture, sales;
      (16)   Gas, illuminating or heating, manufacture;
      (17)   Glue manufacture;
      (18)   Petroleum refining;
      (19)   Smelting of ores; and
      (20)   Tanneries.
   (D)   Accessory uses. The following uses shall be accessory uses within the
I-1 Industrial District:
      (1)   All uses customarily incident to the uses permitted in divisions
(B) and (C) above; and
      (2)   Off-street parking and loading as regulated in §§
154.180 through
154.196 of this chapter.
   (E)   Height regulations. No structure shall exceed four stories or 45 feet
in height; except that, cooling towers, elevator penthouses, domes which do not
contain usable space, water towers and smoke stacks may be of any height which
does not conflict with airport requirements.
   (F)   Front yard regulations.
      (1)   There shall be a front yard setback of not less than 65 feet from
the centerline of all state and county highways and all other public rights-of-
way.
      (2)   Where a lot is located at the intersection of two or more roads or
highways, there shall be a front yard setback on each road or highway side of
each corner lot. No accessory building shall project beyond the front yard
setback line of either road.
   (G)   Side yard regulations. There shall be a side yard on each side of a
building, each yard having a width of not less than 15 feet; except, where the
district abuts a residential district, the side yard shall have a width of not
less than 50 feet and shall contain a solid fence or a vegetative screening.
   (H)   Rear yard regulations. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 15 feet; except, where the district abuts a residential district,
there shall be a rear yard having a depth of not less than 50 feet and shall
contain a solid fence or a vegetative screening.
   (I)   Lot area regulations. Every individual lot, site or tract shall have
an area of not less than 20,000 square feet.
   (J)   Minimum district area regulations. No I-1 Industrial District shall be
established on less than ten acres in single ownership or other unified
control. This requirement shall not apply where the tract abuts an existing
industrial district.
   (K)   Lot coverage regulations. Buildings shall not cover more than 50% of
the total area of a lot.
   (L)   General regulations. Additional requirements applicable to the I-
1 Industrial District are set forth in §§
154.140 through
154.167 of this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 11.10)
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 154.140 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to guide development so as to create a
compatible relationship of land uses by maintaining certain standards. Within
the various districts, the permitted uses, conditional uses and accessory uses
shall conform to these standards. Standards listed shall be construed as
minimum standards and the City Council may require adherence to approved or
suggested state standards.
(2001 Code, § 11.11)
§ 154.141 COMPLIANCE.
   In order to ensure compliance with the performance standards set forth, the
Planning Commission may require the owner or operator of any facility to have
made investigations and tests as may be required to show adherence to the
performance standards. The investigation and tests as are required to be made
shall be carried out by an independent testing organization as may be selected
by the city, at the applicant’s expense.
(2001 Code, § 11.11)
§ 154.142 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   All required yards shall either be landscaped or be left in a natural
state. If any yards are to be landscaped, they shall be landscaped attractively
with lawn, trees and shrubs which are properly maintained in a well-kept
condition, in accordance to conditions specified in
Chapter 92 of this code.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial yards adjoining any of the classes of
residence districts shall be landscaped with buffer planting screens. Plans of
the screens shall be submitted for approval as a part of the site plan and
installed prior to the commencement of operation.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.143 NOISE.
   Noise shall be measured on any property line of the tract on which the
operation is located. Noise shall be muffled so as not to become objectionable
due to intermittence, beat frequency, shrillness or intensity, except for noise
from agricultural sources in the A-1 Agriculture Zone generated by agricultural
use shall be exempt.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.144 ODORS.
   (A)   Any use established, enlarged or remodeled shall be so operated as to
prevent the emission of odorous matter of a quantity as to be readily
detectable at any point beyond the lot line of the site on which the use is
located.
   (B)   Detailed plans for the prevention of odors that cross property lines
may be required before the issuance of a zoning permit, except odors from
agricultural sources.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.145 GLARE.
   Glare, whether direct or reflected, such as floodlights or high temperature
processes, and as differentiated from general illumination, shall not be
directed at or illuminate adjacent properties.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.146 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   Any lights used for exterior illumination shall direct light away from
adjoining properties.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.147 VIBRATION.
   (A)   Any use creating periodic earth-shaking vibrations shall be prohibited
if the vibrations are perceptible beyond the lot line of the site on which the
use is located.
   (B)   The standard shall not apply to vibrations created during the process
of construction.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.148 SMOKE AND PARTICLE MATTER.
   Any use established, enlarged or remodeled after the effective date of this
chapter shall be so operated to meet the minimum requirements of the state’s
Pollution Control for the emission of smoke or other particulate matter.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.149 DUST.
   (A)   Solid or liquid particles shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations exceeding three-tenths grain per cubic foot of the conveying gas
or air.
   (B)   For measurement of the amount of particles in gases resulting from
combustion, standard corrections shall be applied to a stack temperature of
500°F and 50% excess air.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.150 TOXIC OR NOXIOUS MATTER.
   Any use established shall be so operated as not to discharge across the
boundaries of the lot or through percolation into the subsoil beyond the
boundaries of the lot where the use is located, toxic or noxious matter in a
concentration as to be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety,
comfort or welfare, or cause injury or damage to property or business.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.151 GARBAGE, REFUSE AND THE LIKE.
   Any bins placed outside of buildings and used to store waste, refuse or
recycled material shall have lids and be enclosed by a wall, fence, shrub or
other concealing barrier.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.152 EXPLOSIVES.
   (A)   Any use requiring the storage, utilization or manufacturing of
products which could decompose by detonation shall be located not less than 400
feet from any residential district line.
   (B)   Note: this does not apply to petroleum fuel storage or sales.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.153 STATE BUILDING CODE.
   City Council elected not to adopt and enforce the state’s Building Code
within its jurisdiction in August, 1988, except those provisions for
handicapped persons in accordance with M.S. §§ 326B.106 and 326B.16, as they
may be amended from time to time.
(2001 Code, § 11.11)
§ 154.154 HEIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Where the average slope of a lot is greater than one foot rise or fall
in seven feet of horizontal distance from the established street elevation at
the property line, one story in addition to the number permitted in the
district in which the lot is situated shall be permitted on the downhill side
of any building.
   (B)   Height limitations set forth elsewhere in this chapter may be
increased by 100% when applied to the following:
      (1)   Monuments;
      (2)   Flag poles;
      (3)   Cooling towers;
      (4)   Elevator penthouses; and
      (5)   Windmills.
   (C)   Height limitations set forth elsewhere in this chapter may be
increased with no limitation when applied to the following:
      (1)   Church spires, belfries or domes which do not contain usable space;
      (2)   Water towers;
      (3)   Chimneys or smokestacks;
      (4)   Radio or television transmitting towers;
      (5)   Essential service structures; and
      (6)   Grain elevators.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.155 YARD REGULATIONS.
   Measurements shall be taken from the nearest point of the wall of a building
to the lot line in question, subject to the following qualifications.
   (A)   Cornices, canopies or eaves may extend into the required front yard a
distance not exceeding four feet, six inches.
   (B)   Fire escapes may extend into the required front yard a distance not
exceeding four feet, six inches.
   (C)   A landing place or uncovered porch may extend into the required front
yard to a distance not exceeding six feet, if the landing place or porch has
its floor no higher than the entrance floor of the building. An open railing no
higher than three feet, six inches may be placed around the place.
   (D)   The above enumerated architectural features may also extend into any
side or rear yard to the same extent; except that, no porch, terrace or outside
stairway shall project into the required side yard distance.
   (E)   A wall, fence or hedge may occupy part of the required front, side or
rear yard.
   (F)   On double frontage lots, the required front yard shall be provided on
both streets.
   (G)   The required front yard of a corner lot shall not contain any wall,
fence or other structure, tree, shrub or other growth which may cause danger to
traffic on a road or public road by obscuring the view.
   (H)   The required front yard of a corner lot shall be unobstructed above a
height of three feet in a triangular area, two sides of which are the lines
running along the side road between the road intersection and a point 25 feet
from the intersection, and the third side of which is the line between the
latter two points.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.156 LOT AREA REGULATIONS.
   No lot shall be so reduced that the area of the lot or dimensions of the
open spaces shall be smaller than prescribed.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.157 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following accessory uses, in addition to those previously specified,
shall be permitted in any residential and agricultural district, if the
accessory uses do not alter the character of the premises, as determined by the
Planning Commission, in respect to their use for the purposes permitted in the
district:
   (A)   The operation of necessary facilities and equipment in connection with
schools, colleges, universities, hospitals and other institutions permitted in
the district; and
   (B)   Recreation, refreshment and service buildings in public parks and
playgrounds.
(2001 Code, § 11.11)
§ 154.158 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In case an accessory building is attached to the main building, it
shall be made structurally a part of the main building and shall comply in all
respects with the requirements of this chapter applicable to the main building.
An accessory building, unless attached to and made a part of the main building,
shall not be closer than five feet to the main building, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter.
   (B)   A detached accessory building shall not be located in any required
front yard.
   (C)   A detached accessory building not over one story and not exceeding 12
feet in height shall occupy not more than 30% of the area of any rear yard;
providing further that, no detached accessory building shall be located within
ten feet of any rear or side lot line, except as noted in the residential
district.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.159 BUILDINGS TO BE MOVED.
   Any building or structure which has been wholly or partially erected on any
premises, located either within or outside of the city shall not be moved to
and be placed upon any other premises in the city until an authorization to use
the building or structure shall have been secured and a zoning permit obtained.
In the event circumstances do not permit the owner to secure prior approval and
permits, the owner shall immediately notify the Clerk-Treasurer that the
building is being moved. The owner must supply to the Clerk-Treasurer, within
48 hours, written documentation as to why prior consent and necessary permits
were not obtained. Documentation must be signed by the party from whom the
structure was purchased. The owner will have five calendar days in which to
secure a permit for a building which has been moved. Any building or structure
shall conform to all the provisions of this chapter, in the same manner as a
new building or structure.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.160 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY.
   No fence, wall, structure, planting or obstruction shall be erected,
established or maintained on any corner lot exceeding 42 inches in height, as
measured from the centerline elevation of the street, which will obstruct the
view of a driver of a vehicle.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.161 FENCES.
   (A)   All boundary line fences shall be entirely located upon the private
property of the persons, firm or corporation constructing, or causing the
construction of the fence, unless the owner of the property adjoining agrees,
in writing, that the fence may be erected on the division line of the
respective properties. No setback requirements shall apply.
   (B)   Fences in the agricultural and residential districts shall not exceed
six feet in height in the side and rear yards and shall not exceed 42 inches in
height in the front yard.
   (C)   Fences in the business and industry districts shall not exceed six
feet in height, except security fences, which shall not exceed eight feet in
height including barbed wire toppings.
   (D)   No fences shall be constructed within utility easements.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.162 LOT SURVEYS.
   In such cases where fences are being erected on property lines or structures
are being enlarged within questionable distances of the applicable setbacks in
districts, the city’s Planning Commission will require the applicant (at the
applicant’s expense) to have the lot surveyed and staked in order to ensure
compliance with those regulations established by the city.
(2001 Code, § 11.11)
§ 154.163 LIMITS ON REQUEST FOR VARIANCES, CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT OR AMENDMENT.
   A request for a variance, conditional use or amendment which has been denied
may not be requested again until a period of six months has passed unless the
applicant can show to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission or Board of
Adjustment that the conditions which were present under the earlier request
filed have changed or that the request is substantially different.
(2001 Code, § 11.11)
§ 154.164 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   In any zoning district where home occupations are authorized, the
following regulations governing the home occupations shall be complied with.
      (1)   The home occupation shall be conducted entirely within the
dwelling, by inhabitants with no more than one outside employee.
      (2)   The use shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the use of the
dwelling purpose and shall not change the residential character.
      (3)   Home occupation shall not exceed 500 square feet of floor space.
      (4)   Accessory buildings and or attached garages can be used as part of
the home occupation as long as the structure is not specifically dedicated for
the occupation and occupies less than 30% of the total structure and is
incidental and secondary to the use of the principal residential structure on
the property.
      (5)   The home occupations shall not require internal or external
alterations or involved construction features not customarily found in
dwellings.
      (6)   There shall be no exterior display or storage of equipment and
materials associated with the home occupation.
      (7)   Allowable signage shall be limited to one sign, not more than four
square feet in total size, non-illuminated and attached to the dwelling.
      (8)   There shall be no indication of offensive noise, vibration, smoke,
dust, odors, heat or glare at or beyond the property line.
   (B)   All non-conforming home occupations legally existing prior to the
adoption of this chapter shall be allowed to continue but shall not be allowed
to expand, rebuild, relocate, replace or alter without being brought into
compliance with all the requirements of this section.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.165 MINIMUM RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   All structures used for residential occupancy shall have a minimum width of
20 feet on its narrowest dimension and shall be affixed to a permanent
foundation constructed of concrete block, poured concrete, or wood in
accordance with Building Code standards. This provision shall apply to all R-
1 and R-2 residential zones.
(2001 Code, § 11.11)
§ 154.166 EARTH-SHELTERED BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Where an earth-sheltered building substantially alters the natural
watershed of the lot, computations for yard area shall be based on measurements
from the surrounding cover of earth. In cases where the earth-sheltered
building has been made part of the natural terrain, computations for yard area
shall be made from the exterior surface of the building.
   (B)   All applications for zoning permits for earth-sheltered buildings
presented to the Planning Commission shall be accompanied by a suitable
drainage plan.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.167 NUMBERING OF HOMES AND PLACES OF BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Display. The current address of all homes and other buildings occupied
shall be displayed on the exterior of the home or business facing the street
adjacent to the home or business building in compliance with this section.
   (B)   Size of numbers.
      (1)   Each number of the address attached to the home or business shall
be at least three inches, but no greater than six inches in size.
      (2)   The number shall be of a color that contrasts to the color of the
building to which it is attached.
      (3)   The number of the address shall be in Arabic numbers. Roman
numerals, numbers in writing or other forms are insufficient and if used,
Arabic numerals shall also be displayed in accordance with this section.
   (C)   Location. All numbers attached to a home or business place shall
display the address of the home or business place and shall be located in a
position near the front door of the building so it may be seen from the street
or road clearly at night with a spotlight or a porch light attached to the
building.
(2001 Code, § 11.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
PARKING AND LOADING
§ 154.180 SCOPE.
   (A)   All parking constructed or maintained shall conform to the provisions
of this subchapter and any other ordinance or regulation of the city.
   (B)   For any and all uses or structures not specifically provided for in
this subchapter, the Planning Commission shall determine proper parking or
loading requirements as appropriate.
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.181 EXEMPTIONS.
   In any business or industrial districts, establishments which pay or have
paid an assessment for the provision of off-street parking lots shall be
exempted from the provisions of this subchapter which refer to off-street
parking.
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.182 SIZE REDUCTION OF PARKING LOT AND LOADING SPACE.
   Future parking and loading facilities and the facilities existing at the
effective date of this chapter shall not be reduced below the minimum size
requirements established in this subchapter.
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.183 PARKING LOT AND LOADING AREA USE RESTRICTION.
   Parking and loading facilities required by this subchapter for a given
building or use shall not be used for storage of goods or for storage of
vehicles that are inoperable as defined by state statutes or for sale or rent.
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.184 LOCATION OF PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Required on-site parking space shall be provided on the same lot as
the principal building or use except as described in §
154.185 of this chapter.
   (B)   All required loading or unloading into or out of trucks in excess of
three-quarter-ton capacity and railroad cars, shall be conducted on the lot of
that activity using facilities specifically designed or designated for that
purpose.
   (C)   On-site parking and loading facilities shall not be subject to the
front yard, side yard and rear yard regulations for the district in which the
parking is located; except that:
      (1)   In a business district, no parking or loading space shall be
located within ten feet of any property line that abuts a road, highway right-
of-way or any residence district; and
      (2)   In an industrial district, no parking or loading space shall be
located within ten feet of any property line that abuts a highway right-of-way
line or any residence district.
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.185 COMBINED PARKING FACILITIES.
   Combined or joint parking facilities may be provided for one or more
buildings or uses in business districts and industry districts provided that
the total number of spaces shall equal the sum of the requirements for each
building or use.
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.186 SPECIAL PURPOSE PARKING FACILITIES.
   Special purpose off-street automobile parking facilities may be provided on
the same lot as the building or use or on any lot provided a substantial
portion of that facility is within 800 feet of the building or use.
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.187 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General. Off-street parking and loading areas for each building or use
shall be of sufficient size to provide parking or loading and unloading space
for owners, patrons, customers, suppliers, visitors and employees.
   (B)   Site plan. All plans requiring parking spaces or loading facilities
submitted for a zoning permit shall include a site plan. This site plan shall
be considered as part of the zoning permit and the zoning permit will not be
issued until all the following items are shown on the site plan:
      (1)   Zoning, setbacks and statement of use;
      (2)   North point and scale;
      (3)   All adjacent rights-of-way;
      (4)   Entire ownership of lot or parcel being developed;
      (5)   Completely dimensioned parking layouts;
      (6)   All parking spaces clearly marked; and
      (7)   Owner’s name and current address.
   (C)   Driveway or curb cuts. No driveway or curb cuts in any district shall
exceed 35 feet in width. Also, the number and width of driveways or curb cuts
shall be so located as to minimize traffic congestion and abnormal traffic
hazards.
   (D)   Access. Parking lot and loading areas shall have proper access from a
public right-of-way. Vehicular access to business or industrial uses across
property in any residential district is prohibited.
   (E)   Paving. All parking lots and loading areas shall be paved with an
asphalt or concrete surfacing affording adequate drainage, reduced dust and
bumper guards where needed.
   (F)   Lighting. Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking or
loading areas shall be directed away from residential properties and public
rights-of-way. They shall also be positioned in a way as not to create a
nuisance.
   (G)   Buffer fences and planting screens.
      (1)   On-site parking and loading areas in, near or abutting residence
districts shall be screened by a buffer fence. Plans for such a screen or fence
shall be submitted for approval as part of the required site or plot plan and
the fences or landscaping shall be installed as part of initial construction.
In parking lots and driveways in or abutting residence districts, a solid
masonry wall or substantial fence not less than six feet and not more than ten
feet in height shall be constructed. This wall shall be maintained at least
five feet from the side or rear lot line and up to, but not beyond, the front
building setback line.
      (2)   All berths in a loading area shall be screened from view of
property in a residential district. This screening shall be accomplished by a
solid wall not less than eight feet in height and shall be so designed as to be
architecturally harmonious with the principal structure.
      (3)   Screen plantings may be substituted for the prescribed wall or
fence. However, the plantings must not be less than two and one-half inches in
diameter and of a type as to permit a minimum of 90% capacity during all months
of the year.
   (H)   Other. The Planning Commission may require other conditions as may be
deemed necessary to protect character, value or usefulness of the district.
(2001 Code, § 11.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.188 PARKING LOTS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   If it is in the best interest of the community, the Planning Commission may
permit the use of land in a residence district for a parking lot; provided, the
land abuts or is across the street from a district other than a residence
district and:
   (A)   The lot is used only for the parking of passenger vehicles of
employees, customers or guests of the person or firm controlling and operating
the lot;
   (B)   There shall be no charge for parking on the lot;
   (C)   The lot shall not be used for sales, repair work or servicing of any
kind;
   (D)   Entries and exits to or from the lot shall be located in a way as to
do no harm to the residential district;
   (E)   There shall be no advertising signs or materials located on the lot;
and
   (F)   All parking shall be kept behind the building setback line by a
barrier unless otherwise specifically authorized by the Planning Commission.
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.189 PARKING LOT AND LOADING AREA MAINTENANCE.
   The owner of the parking lot or loading area is responsible for the
maintenance of those facilities. He or she shall maintain the parking and
loading areas, access drives and yard areas in a neat and adequate manner as
defined by community standards.
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.190 PARKING AND STORAGE OF VEHICLES OR EQUIPMENT.
   Automotive vehicles or trailers of any kind or type that do not have current
legal license plates or are inoperable as defined by state statutes shall not
be parked or stored on any residentially zoned property other than in
completely enclosed buildings. No commercial vehicles or equipment exceeding
9,000 pounds gross weight shall be parked, stored or otherwise continued in a
residential district unless in a completely enclosed structure or unless they
are being used in conjunction with a legitimate service being rendered for the
benefit of the residential premises.
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.191 COMPUTING PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   In computing the number of parking spaces required in a given parking lot,
the following rules shall govern.
   (A)   FLOOR SPACE shall mean the gross floor area of the specified use.
   (B)   Where fractional space results, the parking spaces required shall be
construed to be the nearest whole number.
   (C)   The parking space requirements for a use not specifically mentioned
shall be the same as required for a similar nature, as determined by the
Planning Commission.
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.192 MINIMUM PARKING SPACE SIZE REQUIREMENT.
   Parking spaces shall be 19 feet in length, nine feet in width and eight feet
in height.
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.193 MINIMUM PARKING LOT SIZE REQUIREMENT.
   Each parking lot shall contain a minimum area of not less than 300 square
feet, including access drives, a width of not less than nine feet and a depth
of not less than 20 feet.
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.194 REQUIRED NUMBER OF ON-SITE PARKING SPACES.
   The minimum number of required on-site parking spaces for various uses shall
be as follows:
Auto, trailer,
marine and
boat sales,
implement
sales, garden  6 parking spaces, plus 1 parking space for each 500 square feet of floor area
supply stores, over 1,000 square feet
building
material sales
and auto
repair
Automobile     4 parking spaces, plus 2 parking spaces for each service call. The parking
service        spaces shall be in addition to the gas pump service area
station
Bowling alleys 5 parking spaces for each bowling lane, plus 1 parking space for each 2
               employees
Churches       1 parking space for each 4 seats based on the design capacity of the main
               seating area
Community
centers,
libraries,
museums, post  1 parking space for each 500 square feet of floor area
offices, civic
clubs and
similar uses
Convention
halls,
auditoriums,
theaters,      1 parking space for each 4 seats based upon design capacity, plus 1 parking
stadiums,      space for each 2 employees
sports arenas
or similar
uses
Dance hall     1 space for each 35 square feet of dance floor area, plus 1 space for each 2
               employees
Drive-in       20 parking spaces or 1 space for each 20 square feet of floor area, whichever
restaurants    is greater
Elementary     1-1/2 parking spaces for each classroom
school
General
business,
commercial and 1 parking space per 400 square feet of gross floor area
personal
service
establishments
Golf courses,
golf
clubhouse,
country club,  20 spaces, plus 1 space for each 500 square feet of floor area in the
swimming club, principal structure
tennis club,
public
swimming pool
Hospitals,     1 parking space for each 2 beds (excluding bassinets), plus 1 for each staff
sanitariums,   or visiting doctor, plus 1 for each 2 employees, including nurses. Loading and
convalescent   unloading space for all emergency vehicles is not included in the spaces
homes
Hotels         1 parking space for each room or suite, plus 2 spaces for each 5 employees
Industrial and
manufacturing
establishments 1 off-street parking space for each 2 employees on the major shift or 1
and storage,   parking space for each 1,000 square feet of gross floor area within the
wholesale or   building
warehouse
establishments
Lodging,
rooming and
boarding       1 parking space for each guest or sleeping room or suite, plus 3 spaces for
houses,        the owner or manager if resident on the premises
tourist homes,
cabins or
motels
Medical and
dental clinics 4 parking spaces, plus 1 space for each 500 square feet of floor area over
and similar    1,000 square feet
professional
offices
Miniature golf
course,        10 parking spaces or 1 parking space for each practice area, whichever is
archery or     greater
golf driving
range
Mobile home    2 off-street parking spaces for each mobile home berth
parks
Mortuaries or  1 parking space for all “official” vehicles, plus 1 parking space for each
funeral        family in residence on the premises, plus 1 space for each 35 square feet of
parlors        seating area
Multiple       2 parking spaces for each apartment, except housing for the elderly projects,
family         which shall provide 0.3 parking space for each dwelling unit
Office,
professional   1 parking space for each 250 square feet of gross floor area
or public
buildings
One- and two-  2 parking spaces per family. A garage shall be counted toward fulfilling this
family         requirement
dwelling
Private clubs  Parking spaces equal in number to, but not less than 20% of the active
or lodges      membership, plus 1 space for each employee of the club or lodge
Restaurants,
night clubs,   1 parking space for each 100 square feet of gross floor space
tea rooms and
lunch counters
Retail sales
and service    1 parking space for each 100 square feet of floor area
establishments
Senior high    1 parking space for each classroom, plus 1 space for each 5 students based on
school         design capacity
               Where several business uses are grouped together according to a general
Shopping       development plan, 5 parking spaces shall be provided on-site for each 1,000
centers        square feet of gross floor area; separate on-site space shall be provided for
               loading and unloading
Travel trailer
courts or      1-1/2 parking spaces for each trailer space
camps
 
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.195 MINIMUM LOADING AREA DEFINITION AND SIZE.
   All loading areas shall consist of a maneuvering area in addition to the
berth and shall not use any of that portion of the site containing parking
stalls. All berths beyond one stall shall be separate from areas used for off-
street parking. Each required off-street loading berth should be so designed as
to avoid undue interference with other vehicular or rail access or use of
public streets, alleys or other public transport system. Maneuvering areas
shall be of a size as to permit the backing of truck tractors and coupled
trailers into a berth, without blocking the use of other berths or driving or
maneuvering areas.
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
§ 154.196 REQUIRED NUMBER OF ON-SITE LOADING BERTHS.
   Space for loading and unloading of goods, supplies and services shall be
provided in addition to required off-street parking spaces and shall be
sufficient to meet the requirements for each use as indicated below.
Auditorium, stadium, gymnasium,
community centers, religious            1 for each structure over 100,000
institutions and schools (public and    square feet of gross floor area
private)
Bowling alleys                          1 space for each structure over 20,000
                                        square feet of gross floor area
Furniture, automobile and boat sales    1 space, plus 1 space for each 25,000
and appliance sales                     square feet of gross floor area
Hospitals, nursing homes, rest homes    1 space, plus 1 space for each 100,000
and the like                            square feet of gross floor area
Manufacturing and research,             1 space for each 50,000 square feet of
experimental or testing stations        gross floor area
Motels, hotels, lodging, and rooming    1 for each structure over 20,000 square
houses, private lodges and clubs        feet of gross floor area
Office buildings and professional       1 space for buildings between 30,000
offices (other than doctor and dentist) and 100,000 square feet of gross floor
and banks                               area, plus 1 space for each additional
                                        100,000 square feet of gross floor area
Restaurants and other food dispensing   1 for each structure with over 10,000
establishments, except drive-in         square feet of gross floor area
restaurants
                                        1 space for the first 10,000 square
Retail and wholesale commercial uses,   feet of gross floor area, plus 1 space
except where otherwise specified        for each additional 5,000 square feet
                                        of gross floor area
 
(2001 Code, § 11.12)
SIGNS
§ 154.210 GENERAL.
   No sign shall be located, erected, moved, reconstructed, extended, enlarged,
converted or structurally altered without a permit, except those signs
permitted below. The signs must be in conformity with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(2001 Code, § 11.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.211 PERMITTED SIGNS.
   The following signs are permitted in the R-1, R-2 and A-1 Districts:
   (A)   Signs over show windows or doors of a non-conforming business
establishment announcing without display or elaboration only the names and
occupation of the proprietor and not to exceed two feet in height and five feet
in length;
   (B)   Real estate signs not to exceed eight square feet in area which
advertise the sale, rental or lease of the premises upon which the signs are
temporarily located;
   (C)   Name, occupation and warning signs not to exceed two square feet
located on the premises;
   (D)   Bulletin boards for public, charitable or religious institutions not
to exceed 20 square feet in area located on the premises;
   (E)   Memorial signs, tablets, names of buildings and date of erection when
cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of metal and affixed flat
against a structure;
   (F)   Official signs, such as traffic control, parking restrictions,
information and notices; and
   (G)   Temporary signs or banners when authorized by the Planning Commission.
(2001 Code, § 11.13)
§ 154.212 PERMITTED USES.
   The following signs are permitted in the B-1, B-2 and I-1 Districts.
   (A)   Signs placed on the exterior walls of buildings shall not extend more
than 18 inches from a building’s wall surface, shall not exceed 250 square feet
in area for any one premises and shall not exceed 30 feet in height above the
mean centerline street grade.
   (B)   Ground signs shall not exceed 30 feet in height above the mean
centerline street grade, shall meet all yard requirements for the district in
which it is located, shall not exceed 100 square feet on one side nor 200
square feet on all sides for any one premises.
   (C)   Roof signs shall not exceed ten feet in height above the roof, shall
meet all the yard and height requirements for the district in which it is
located, shall not exceed 300 square feet on all sides for any one premises.
   (D)   Window signs shall be placed only on the inside of commercial
buildings.
   (E)   Combination of any of the above signs shall meet all the requirements
for the individual sign.
   (F)   Off-premises advertising signs (billboards) shall only be permitted in
the B-1, B-2 or I-1 Districts and shall be spaced no closer than 300 feet.
These signs shall not exceed 55 feet in length, nor 750 square feet in total
area. Billboards shall meet all setback requirements and shall not be located
within 100 feet of any residential zone, church, school or designated
recreation area.
(2001 Code, § 11.13)
§ 154.213 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   Signs shall not resemble, imitate or approximate the shape, size, form or
color of railroad or traffic signs, signals or devices. Signs shall not
obstruct or interfere with the effectiveness of railroad or traffic signs,
signals and devices. No sign shall be erected, relocated or maintained so as to
prevent free ingress to or egress from any door, window or fire escape, and no
sign shall be attached to a standpipe or fire escape. No sign shall be placed
so as to obstruct or interfere with traffic visibility.
(2001 Code, § 11.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.214 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   Signs lawfully existing at the time of the adoption or amendment of this
chapter may be continued although the use, size or location does not conform
with the provisions of this chapter. However, it shall be deemed a non-
conforming use or structure and the provisions of §§
154.225 through
154.230 of this chapter shall apply.
(2001 Code, § 11.13)
NON-CONFORMING USES, LAND AND STRUCTURES
§ 154.225 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   This chapter or any later amendments may create situations where
structures, buildings or uses of the land previously permitted may become
prohibited, regulated or otherwise restricted. It is the intent of this chapter
to permit the continuance of these non-conforming structures or uses until they
are removed, but not to encourage their survival.
   (B)   These uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with the
permitted uses in the districts involved:
      (1)   Any existing building or premises devoted to a use not permitted by
this chapter in the district in which the building or premises is located,
shall not be enlarged upon, extended, reconstructed or structurally altered,
nor be used as grounds for adding other buildings or structures prohibited
elsewhere in the same district, except when required to do so by law or
ordinance, unless the use is changed to one permitted in the district in which
the building or structure or land is located;
      (2)   A non-conforming use of a building may be replaced with another
non-conforming use; provided, no structural alterations are made;
      (3)   No change from one non-conforming use to another shall be made
without first applying to and receiving from the Planning Commission a permit
to make the change;
      (4)   A non-conforming use may be changed to a more conforming use at any
time;
      (5)   Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to a conforming use,
the use shall not thereafter be changed to a less conforming use;
      (6)   The extension or addition of a lawful use to any portion of a non-
conforming building or structure or land shall not be deemed as the extension
of the non-conforming use;
      (7)   Where non-conforming status applies to a building or structure, the
removal or destruction of the same shall eliminate the non-conforming status of
land;
      (8)   If a building or structure is moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved;
      (9)   All uses which lawfully exist on the effective date of this chapter
and are classified as a conditional use by this chapter for the district in
which they are located, shall be considered lawful conditional uses; and
      (10)   Whenever the boundaries of a district shall be changed so as to
transfer an area from one district to another district of a different
classification, the provisions of this subchapter shall also apply to any non-
conforming uses developing as a result of the action.
(2001 Code, § 11.13)
§ 154.226 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   (1)   A single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, may be
erected in any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption of or amendment to this
chapter.
      (2)   The lot must be in separate ownership and not of continuous
frontage with other lots in the same ownership.
      (3)   This provision shall apply even though the lot fails to meet the
requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the
district; provided that, yard dimensions and other requirements not involving
area of width, or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which the lot is located.
   (B)   Variance of area, width and yard requirements shall be obtained only
through action of the City Council.
(2001 Code, § 11.13)
§ 154.227 CONSTRUCTION APPROVED PRIOR TO ADOPTION OF CHAPTER.
   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall require a change in
the plans, construction or designated use of any building or structure;
provided that:
   (A)   A zoning permit has been issued within 60 days prior to the adoption
of this chapter;
   (B)   The construction of which shall have commenced within 30 days after
the adoption of this chapter;
   (C)   The construction is continuous until the building or structure is
completed; and
   (D)   Actual construction is defined to include the placing of construction
materials in permanent position; except where demolition or removal of an
existing building or structure has commenced preparatory to construction, the
demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction; provided that,
work shall be diligently carried on until completion of the building or
structure involved.
(2001 Code, § 11.13)
§ 154.228 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the reconstruction, repairing or
rebuilding of a non-conforming building, structure or part existing at the
effective date of this chapter, rendered necessary by wear and tear,
deterioration or depreciation; provided, the cost of the work shall not exceed
50% of the replacement value of the building or structure at the time the work
is done, nor prevent compliance with the provisions of any city codes relative
to the maintenance of buildings or structures; provided that, the cubic content
of the building as it existed at the time of passage or amendment of this
chapter shall not be increased.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the reconstruction, repairing,
rebuilding and continued use of any non-conforming building or structure
damaged by flood, fire, collapse, explosion or acts of God, subsequent to the
date of this chapter, wherein the expense of the work does not exceed 50% of
the replacement cost of the building or structure at the time the damage
occurred.
(2001 Code, § 11.13)
§ 154.229 DISCONTINUANCE.
   (A)   When a non-conforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for six consecutive months or for 18
months during any three-year period, the structure or structure and premises in
combination, shall not then be used, except in conformance with the regulations
of the district in which it is located.
   (B)   A non-conforming use shall be considered discontinued:
      (1)   When the intent of the owner to discontinue the use is apparent;
      (2)   When the characteristic equipment and the furnishing of the non-
conforming use have been removed from the premises and have not been replaced
by similar equipment within 90 days, unless other facts indicate the intention
to resume the non-conforming use; or
      (3)   When it has been replaced by a conforming use.
   (C)   Uses or adjuncts which are or have become nuisances shall not be
entitled to continue as non-conforming uses.
(2001 Code, § 11.13)
§ 154.230 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs existing on the effective date of this chapter which do not
conform to the regulations set forth in this chapter shall become a non-
conforming use and shall be discontinued within a reasonable period of
amortization of the sign. Uses of signs which become non-conforming by reason
of subsequent change in this chapter shall also be discontinued within a
reasonable period of amortization of the sign.
   (B)   The period of amortization for signs shall be:
      (1)   Advertising signs: five years from 6-3-1996; and
      (2)   Business signs: ten years from the date of erection or five years
from 6-3-1996, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Business signs on the premises of a non-conforming building or use may
be continued, but the signs shall not be increased in number, area, height or
illumination.
   (D)   No sign erected before 6-3-1996 shall be rebuilt, altered or moved to
a new location on the affected property without being brought into compliance
with the requirements of this chapter.
(2001 Code, § 11.13)
CHAPTER 155: CANNABIS BUSINESSES
Section
Administration
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Authority and jurisdiction
   
155.03   Enforcement
   
155.04   Definitions
Registration of Cannabis Business
   
155.15   Consent to registering of cannabis business
   
155.16   Compliance checks
   
155.17   Registration and application fees
   
155.18   Application submittal
   
155.19   Application approval
   
155.20   Annual compliance checks
   
155.21   Location change
   
155.22   Renewal of registration
   
155.23   Suspension of registration
   
155.24   Limitation of registrations
Requirements for Cannabis Business
   
155.35   Minimum buffer requirements
   
155.36   Hours of operation
   
155.37   License permit for temporary cannabis events
   
155.38   Zoning and land use
   
155.39   Use in public places
 
   
155.99   Penalty
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of M.S. Ch. 342,
as it may be amended from time to time, and the city’s inherent police powers
which authorize the city to protect the public health, safety and welfare of
the city, by regulating cannabis businesses within the legal boundaries of the
city.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 155.02 AUTHORITY AND JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The city has the authority to adopt this chapter pursuant to M.S. §
342.13(c), as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the authority of a
local unit of government to adopt reasonable restrictions of the time, place
and manner or the operation of a cannabis business.
   (B)   M.S. § 342.22, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the
local registration and enforcement requirements of state-licensed cannabis
retail businesses and lower potency hemp edible retail businesses.
   (C)   M.S. § 152.0263, subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time,
regarding the use of cannabis in public places.
   (D)   M.S. § 462.357, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the
authority of a local authority to adopt zoning ordinances.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 155.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   The City Clerk, or his or her designee, shall be responsible for the
administration and enforcement of this chapter. Any violation of the provisions
of this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements constitutes a
misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law. Violations of this chapter can
occur regardless of whether or not a permit is required for a regulated
activity listed in this chapter.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 155.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless otherwise noted in this chapter, words and phrases contained in M.S.
§ 342.01, as it may be amended from time to time, and rules promulgated to any
of these acts, shall have the same meanings in this chapter.
   CANNABIS CULTIVATION. A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis plants
within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to mature
plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label immature
plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis businesses,
transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the same
premises and to perform other acts as approved by the Office of Cannabis
Management.
   CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESS. A retail location and retail locations of
mezzobusinesses with retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with retail
operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a retail
location, excluding lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
   CANNABIS RETAILER. Any person, partnership, firm, corporation or
association, foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and
not for the purpose of resale in any form.
   DAYCARE. A location licensed with the State Department of Human Services to
provide the care of a child or children in a residence outside of the child
(ren)’s own home for gain or otherwise, for any part of a 24-hour day.
   OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT. State Office of Cannabis Management, which
may be referred to as OCM in this chapter.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold or otherwise made available to
members of the general public.
   PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL. OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business
license for applicants who qualify under OCM rules or Minnesota Statutes.
   PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail; public street or sidewalk; any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including but not limited to,
restaurants, bars, any other food or liquor establishment, hospitals, nursing
homes, auditoriums, arenas, gyms, meeting rooms, common areas of rental
apartment buildings and other places of public accommodation.
   RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY. As defined under M.S. § 245.462, subd. 23,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   RETAIL REGISTRATION. An approved registration issued by the city to a state-
licensed cannabis retail store.
   SCHOOL. A public school, as defined by M.S. § 120A.05, as it may be amended
from time to time, or a nonpublic school that meets the requirements under M.S.
§ 120A.04, as it may be amended from time to time.
   STATE LICENSE. An approved license issued by the State Office of Cannabis
Management to a cannabis retail business.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025)
REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESS
§ 155.15 CONSENT TO REGISTERING OF CANNABIS BUSINESS.
   No individual or entity may operate a state licensed cannabis retail
business within the city without first registering with the city.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.16 COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   Prior to the registration of a cannabis business, the city shall conduct a
preliminary compliance check to ensure compliance with local ordinances.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 155.17 REGISTRATION AND APPLICATION FEES.
   A registration fee, as established in the city fee schedule, shall be
charged to applicants. The amount of the fee will depend on the type of
business license applied for.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 155.18 APPLICATION SUBMITTAL.
   (A)   The city shall issue a retail registration to a state-licensed
cannabis retail business that adheres to the requirements of M.S. § 342.22, as
it may be amended from time to time. The applicant for retail registration
shall complete an application form, as provided by the city. Said form shall
contain, but not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The full name of the property owner and applicant;
      (2)   The address, email address and telephone number of the applicant;
      (3)   If the applicant is an entity the names and addresses of any party
that owns 25% or more of the entity;
      (4)   The address and parcel ID for the property which the retail
registrations are sought; and
      (5)   Certification that the applicant complies with the requirements of
local ordinances.
   (B)   The applicant shall submit with the form any application fee that is
due, a copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM license
preapproval, a copy of a state licensed identification for an individual or
documentation for the Secretary of State verifying the entity is in good
standing.
   (C)   Once the application is considered complete, the city shall inform the
applicant of this, and the application will be forwarded to the City Clerk, or
his or her designee, for approval or denial.
   (D)   The application fee shall be non-refundable once processed.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 155.19 APPLICATION APPROVAL.
   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not be approved
if the cannabis retail business would exceed the maximum number of registered
cannabis retail businesses permitted. A state-licensed cannabis retail
application shall not be approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet
the requirements of this chapter. A state-licensed cannabis retail business
application that meets the requirements of this chapter shall be approved.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 155.20 ANNUAL COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   (A)   The city shall complete at a minimum one compliance check per calendar
year of every cannabis business to assess if the business meets age
verification requirements as required under M.S. § 342.22, subd. 4(b) and M.S.
§ 342.24, as they may be amended from time to time, and this chapter.
   (B)   Age verification compliance checks shall involve persons at least 17
years of age but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written consent of a
parent or guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt to purchase
adult-use cannabis flower, adult use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp-
edibles or hemp-derived consumer products under the direct supervision of a law
enforcement officer.
   (C)   A failure of the compliance check will be reported to the OCM.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 155.21 LOCATION CHANGE.
   A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall be required to submit a new
application for registration if it seeks to move to a new location within the
city.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 155.22 RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION.
   A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall apply to renew registration
on a form provided by the city on an annual basis and shall pay the renewal fee
as required under city code.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 155.23 SUSPENSION OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The city may suspend a cannabis retail business’s registration if it
violates the ordinance or poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of
the public. The city shall immediately notify the cannabis retail business of
the grounds for the suspension.
   (B)   The city shall immediately notify the OCM in writing of the suspension
and the grounds for the suspension. OCM will provide the city and cannabis
retail business a response to the complaint within seven calendar days and
perform any necessmy inspections within 30 calendar days.
   (C)   The length of the suspension may be up to 30 days unless the OCM
suspends for a longer period. The city shall take no action on reissuing the
license until a determination of the OCM has been made. A business may not make
sales to customers if their registration is suspended.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025)
§ 155.24 LIMITATION OF REGISTRATIONS.
   The city shall limit the number of cannabis retail businesses to two. In
addition to the two retail cannabis registrations for higher potency THC,
cannabis or marijuana products, the city will provide for up to five retail
cannabis registrations for lower potency THC of cannabis products.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025) Penalty, see §
155.99
REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS BUSINESS
§ 155.35 MINIMUM BUFFER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   School. A cannabis business shall not be located within 1,000 feet of
a school.
   (B)   Daycare. A cannabis business shall not be located with 500 feet of a
daycare.
   (C)   Residential treatment facility. A cannabis retail business shall not
be located within 500 feet of a residential treatment facility.
   (D)   Park/attraction. A cannabis retail business shall not be located
within 500 feet of a public park or any attraction that is regularly used by
minors including playgrounds and athletic fields.
   (E)   Cannabis retail establishment. A cannabis retail business shall not be
located with 500 feet of another cannabis retail business.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.36 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sale of cannabis, cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles or hemp-derived consumer products
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 1:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday, and from
10:00 a.m. to 1:00 a.m. on Sunday. No sales will be allowed from 1:00 a.m. to
8:00 a.m., Monday through Saturday, and 1:01 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. on Sundays.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.37 LICENSE PERMIT FOR TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS.
   (A)   An event organizer who has received a license and all other permission
to hold a temporary event in the city may apply for a temporary event cannabis
license. They must provide the following:
      (1)   The applicant for a temporary cannabis event permit shall complete
a form as provided by the city that will require the full name and event
organization or organizer and the contact information for the same;
      (2)   A copy of the OCM cannabis application as submitted to the OCM; and
      (3)   Proof of insurance.
   (B)   Any license issues by the city shall not be good for more than four
days.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.38 ZONING AND LAND USE.
   Cannabis business will be allowed in the following zoning districts.
   (A)   Cannabis cultivation business. Cannabis businesses licensed or
endorsed for cultivation are permitted as a permitted use in A-1 (Agriculture
Residential District) and a conditional use in R-1 (Residential).
   (B)   Cannabis manufacturer. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
cannabis manufacture are permitted as a permitted used in I-1 Industrial.
   (C)   Hemp manufacturer. Businesses licensed or endorsed for low-potency
hemp edible manufacturing are permitted in I-1 Industrial Districts.
   (D)   Wholesale. Businesses licensed or endorsed for wholesale are permitted
in I-1 Industrial District and B-2 General Business District.
   (E)   Cannabis Retail. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for cannabis
retail are permitted in B-1 Highway Business District and B-2 General Business
District.
   (F)   Cannabis Transportation. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
transportation are permitted in I-1 Industrial District, B-1 Highway Business
District and B-2 General Business District.
   (G)   Cannabis Delivery. Cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for
delivery are permitted in B-1 Highway Business District and B-2 General
Business District.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.39 USE IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place or public
accommodation, unless the premises is an establishment or an event license to
permit on-site consumption of adult use.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025) Penalty, see §
155.99
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   Subject to M.S. § 342.22, subd. (5), as it may be amended from time to time,
the city may impose a civil penalty as specified in the city fee schedules for
registrations violations.
(Ord. 25-04, passed 7-14-2025)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
     10-5-  Electric franchise between the city and Northern States Power Company, d/b/
-    2015   a Xcel Energy
            (2001 Code, § 3.50)
     10-5-  Cable television franchise between the city and HickoryTech Cable
-    2015   Communications
            (2001 Code, § 3.60)
     10-5-  Natural gas franchise between the city and Gorhams’, Inc., d/b/a Northwest
-    2015   Natural Gas
            (2001 Code, § 3.70)
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to 2001 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites          Code Section
13.44               151.12
13D.01 et seq.      30.04
84.87               71.02
84.92               71.20
84.92—84.928      71.21
88.02—88.22       92.28
88.75               92.28
88.76               92.28
116.082             92.24
120A.04             155.04
120A.05             155.04
144.391             112.01
152.01—152.025    151.10
152.0263, subd. 5   155.02
152.027, subd. 1    151.10
152.027, subd. 2    151.10
160.22, subd. 10    92.04
168B.011            92.01
168B.011, subd. 3   92.05
169                 70.01,
                    71.21
169.011             92.01
169.011, subd. 40a  71.20
169.041             92.05
169.045             71.35
169.68              131.01
169.345             70.40
169.522             71.39
216B.097            50.21
243.166             33.04,
                    33.06
243.167             33.06
244.052, subd. 3    33.04
244.052, subd. 3(i) 33.06
245.462, subd. 23   155.04
272.115             151.08
321                 111.03
326B.106            154.153
326B.16             154.153
327.31              154.008
                    114.01,
                    114.03,
                    114.20,
                    114.23,
340A                114.35,
                    114.39,
                    114.50,
                    114.52,
                    114.65,
                    114.67
340A.101            114.02,
                    114.04
340A.401            151.10
340A.402            114.03
340A.409            114.03
340A.412            114.37
340A.414            114.65
                    114.23,
340A.504            114.39,
                    114.52,
                    114.67
340A.504, subd. 3   114.04
342                 155.01
342.01              155.04
342.13(c)           155.02
342.22              155.02,
                    155.18
342.22, subd. 4(b)  155.20
342.22, subd. (5)   155.99
342.24              155.20
343.31              90.18
346.155             90.03
346.36, Subd. 6     90.18
346.40              90.13
346.41              90.13
346.42              90.13
347.50—347.565    90.11
347.51              90.11
347.515             90.11,
                    90.12
347.52              90.11
347.52(a)           90.11
347.52(c)           90.11
347.54              90.12
429                 92.04,
                    152.01
429.021             50.02
429.061             92.029
                    92.05,
429.101             92.029,  
                    152.37
437.02              111.03
444.075             50.02
462.352             31.02
462.357             155.02
462.358             153.002
466                 152.17,
                    152.53
507.235             151.08
507.235, subd. 1    151.09
514.67              152.02
583.20—583.32     151.05
609.02, subd. 3     10.05
609.02, subd. 4a    10.05
609.226, Subd. 1    90.11,
                    90.12
609.33              151.10
609.72              151.10
609.75—609.76     151.10
609.321—609.324   151.10
626.862             10.20
626.84              90.13
631.48              10.99
645                 10.05
                    
 
REFERENCES TO 2001 CODE
2001 Code 2018 Code
2001 Code 2018 Code
1.02      10.05
1.03      10.05
1.05      10.98
1.06      10.99
2.01      30.01—
          30.04
2.02      30.05
2.03      30.06
2.04      30.07
2.05      30.25—
          30.28
2.06      30.08
2.07      30.09
2.08      30.10
2.20      31.01
2.21      32.01—
          32.05
2.23      32.40—
          32.47
2.50      31.02
2.60      31.03
3.01      50.01
3.02      50.02
3.03      50.03
3.04      50.15—
          50.28
3.20      51.01—
          51.10
3.30      52.01—
          52.12
3.35      52.01
3.40      53.01—
          53.04
3.50      TSO I
3.60      TSO I
3.70      TSO I
4.01      110.01
4.02      110.15—
          110.23
4.04      112.01—
          112.12
4.05      113.01
4.06      113.02
5.01      114.01
5.02      114.02
5.03      114.03
5.04      114.03
5.05      114.20—
          114.23
5.06      114.35—
          114.39
5.07      114.50—
          114.52
5.08      114.65—
          114.67
5.09      114.04
5.10      114.05
6.01      152.15—
          152.21
6.02      152.35—
          152.37
6.03      152.50—
          152.53
6.04      152.01
6.05      152.02
6.06      152.03
6.07      152.04
8.01      91.01
9.01      92.01
9.02A     92.03
9.03      92.04
9.04      92.05
9.05      92.06
9.07      92.07
9.08      92.08
9.10      92.09
9.11      113.15—
          113.17
10.01     115.01
10.02     115.02
10.03     115.03
10.04     115.04
10.05     115.05
10.06     115.05
10.07     115.06
10.08     115.06
10.09     115.07
10.10     115.08
11.01     154.001—
          154.006
11.02     154.007
11.03     154.008
11.04     154.105—
          154.108
11.05     154.120
11.06     154.121
11.07     154.122
11.08     154.123
11.09     154.124
11.10     154.125
11.11     154.140—
          154.167
11.12     154.180—
          154.196
          154.210—
11.13     154.214,
          154.225—
          154.230
11.15     154.035—
          154.040
11.16     154.055—
          154.058 
11.17     154.020—
          154.024
11.18     154.070—
          154.075
11.19     154.090—
          154.094
12.01     153.001
12.02     153.002—
          153.008
12.03     153.009
12.04     153.009
12.05     153.025—
          153.030
12.06     153.045—
          153.049
12.07     153.060—
          153.073
12.08     153.085—
          153.087
12.09     153.010
12.10     153.011
13.010    151.01
13.020    151.02
13.030    151.03
13.040    151.04
13.050    151.05
13.060    151.06
13.070    151.06
13.080    151.07
13.090    151.08
13.100    151.09
13.110    151.10
13.120    151.11
13.130    151.12
13.140    151.13
13.150    151.14
13.160    151.15
13.170    151.16
13.190    151.17
14.010    131.01—
          131.03
          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
2003-12  11-3-2003   10.99
2016-10  8-2-2016    130.01
                     112.01,
                     112.02,
2020-01  2-10-2020   112.05,
                     112.06,
                     112.10
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -1979     150.01
                     70.01—
                     70.04,
                     70.15—
                     70.19,
                     70.30—
7        5-5-2014    70.40,
                     71.01—
                     71.09,
                     71.20—
                     71.22,
                     71.35—
                     71.39
13       6-2-2014    151.01—
                     151.17
14       8-4-2014    131.01—
                     131.03
7        6-1-2015    71.20—
                     71.22
15       7-6-2015    33.01—
                     33.07
-        4-4-2016    50.02
-        7-11-2016   92.20—
                     92.28
2017-01  7-10-2017   30.01
2017-02  12-11-2017  92.05
                     70.34—
2018-01  3-12-2018   70.36,
                     71.39
25-01    7-14-2025   34.01
25-02    7-14-2025   35.01—
                     35.09
                     92.02,
25-03    -14-2025    92.021—
                     92.029,
                     92.99
                     155.01—
                     155.04,
                     155.15—
25-04    7-14-2025   155.24,
                     155.35—
                     155.39,
                     155.99
                    
 
