CITY OF HARRIS, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-2 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 2023-03, passed 3-13-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
MAYOR
Randy Carlson
COUNCIL MEMBERS
Craig Moline
Chell Borash
Al Siedow
Garret Pearson
CITY CLERK
Shannon Geier
CITY TREASURER
Sue Riesing
CITY ATTORNEY
Flaherty /Hood, Robert Kringler
CITY ENGINEER
Bollig Engineering, Nathan Feist
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2008-4
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCE FOR THE CITY OF HARRIS, MINNESOTA,
AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCE
WHEREAS Minnesota State Statute Sections 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city
to cause its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book,
NOW THEREFORE the City Council of the City of Harris, Minnesota, ordains:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the City as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified an compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are hereby adopted and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Harris." This Code of
Ordinances also adopts by reference certain statutes and administrative rules
of the State of Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following titles:
   Title I. General Provisions
   Title III. Administration
   Title V. Public Works
   Title VII. Traffic Code
   Title IX. General Regulations
   Title XI. Business Regulations
   Title XII. General Offenses
   Title XV. Land Usage
   Table of Special Ordinances
   Parallel References
Section 3. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the Code
of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part
in the proposed Code of Ordinances; provided, this repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching
territory, establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain
persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or
borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal
property, granting or accepting easements, plats or dedication of land to
public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public
places; nor shall this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or
special nature or pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the
Code of Ordinances. All fees established in prior ordinances codified in this
Code shall remain in effect unless amended in this code or until an ordinance
adopting a fee schedule is adopted or amended.
Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a sufficient
publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously published in the
City's official newspaper. The Clerk of the City shall cause a substantial
quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general distribution to
the public at actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code of Ordinances to
the County Law Library or its designated depository. The official copy of this
Code of Ordinances shall be marked and be kept in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of the
law of the City and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the Courts of the State of Minnesota.
Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
City's official newspaper.
PASSED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HARRIS, MINNESOTA THIS 14th DAY OF
JULY, 2008.
                     Rick Smisson /s/
                     Rick Smisson
                     Mayor
Attest:
Jennifer Wothe /s/
Jennifer Wothe, City Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. 2020-02
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF HARRIS, CHISAGO
COUNTY, MINNESOTA, AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING, AND
COMPILING CERTAIN ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN
THE CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE
OF ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to cause
its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book, now therefore:
THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HARRIS, CHISAGO COUNTY, MINNESOTA, ORDAINS:
Section 1. The general ordinances of the City as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are adopted and shall constitute the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Harris. This Code of Ordinances also adopts,
by reference, certain statutes and administrative rules of the State of
Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following titles:
   Title I. General Provisions
   Title III. Administration
   Title V. Public Works
   Title VII. Traffic Code
   Title IX. General Regulations
   Title XI. Business Regulations
   Title XIII. General Offenses
   Title XV. Land Usage
   Section 3. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated in the
Code of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance, except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in the Code of Ordinances; provided this repeal shall not affect any
offense committed or penalty incurred, or any right established prior to the
effective date of this ordinance, nor shall this repeal affect the provisions
of ordinances levying taxes; appropriating money; annexing or detaching
territory; establishing franchises; granting special rights to certain persons;
authorizing public improvements; authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money; authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property;
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use; or
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
this repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances.
All fees established in prior ordinances shall remain in effect unless amended
in this Code of Ordinances or until an ordinance adopting a fee schedule is
adopted or amended.
Section 4. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall be a sufficient
publication of any ordinance included in it and not previously published in the
city's official newspaper. The City Clerk shall cause a substantial quantity of
the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general distribution to the public at
actual cost and shall furnish a copy of the Code of Ordinances to the County
Law Library or its designated depository. The official copy of this Code of
Ordinances shall be marked and be kept in the office of the City Clerk.
Section 5. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima facie evidence of the
law of the city and shall be received in evidence as provided by Minnesota
Statutes by the courts of the State of Minnesota.
Section 6. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the Code of
Ordinances itself, shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance in the
City's official newspaper.
The foregoing ordinance was introduced and moved for adoption by Council member
Rossini and seconded by Council Member Williams.
Voting for the Ordinance:         Miller, Rossini, Williams, and Payne
Voting Against the Ordinance:      None
Abstained from Voting:         None
Absent:               Sculley
Motion carried and ordinance adopted this 8th day of June, 2020.
 
                     Diane Miller /s/
                     Diane Miller
                     Mayor
Attest:
Barbara Vogtlin /s/
Barbara Vogtlin, City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified ordinances”
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Harris,
Minnesota as presently established or as amended by ordinance, annexation or
other legal actions at a future time. The term CITY when used in this code may
also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
(Prior Code, § 102.03)
      CLERK. The City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 102.03)
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
(Prior Code, § 102.03)
      COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Harris.
(Prior Code, § 102.03)
      COUNTY. County of Chisago, Minnesota.
(Prior Code, § 102.03)
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      ORDINANCES. Ordinances of the City of Harris.
(Prior Code, § 102.03)
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof. As
applied to partnerships or associations, the word includes the partners or
members thereof; as applied to corporations, it includes the officers, agents
and employees thereof who are responsible for the act referred to.
(Prior Code, § 102.03)
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      PUBLIC WAY. Any street, alley, sidewalk, boulevard, park or other
property under the ownership, control or general use of the public body.
(Prior Code, § 102.03)
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City Clerk
for public inspection. The Clerk shall provide a copy for sale for a reasonable
charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code, all
future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by
reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city's Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any deputy sheriff shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk shall have the authority to administer and enforce this
code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain individuals
designated within the code or by the Clerk or City Council shall have the
authority to administer and enforce the provisions specified. All and any
person or persons designated may issue a citation in lieu of arrest or
continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk and any city official or employee designated by this
code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with the
permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident of
a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk, peace officer, or any employee or official charged with the duty of
enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable cause
exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of competent
jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting the
inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only to
determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Clerk or any other authorized city officer or employee
only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce
these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection of or entrance
to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all permits,
licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given to the
licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property, stating
the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or other
person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Clerk to object to the termination before it occurs, subject to
appeal of the Clerk's decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or
special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Clerk, or other person
giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, in a written
notice of an alleged violation, sent by first class mail to the person who is
alleged to have violated the code, the person giving notice may request the
payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the violation directly to the
City Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of the violation. In the sole
discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged violation, the time
for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not requested by
the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the administrative
penalty, the person giving notice may request in the notice to the alleged
violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the situation resulting in the
alleged violation and may provide that if the alleged violator corrects the
situation resulting in the alleged violation within the time specified in the
notice, that the payment of the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of
this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   ELECTIONS AND COUNCIL
         
31.   OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
         
32.   RULES OF COUNCIL PROCEDURE
         
33.   CITY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
         
34.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
         
35.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
         
36.   FEE SCHEDULE
CHAPTER 30: ELECTIONS AND COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Form of government
   
30.02   Election date
   
30.03   Terms of office
§ 30.01 FORM OF GOVERNMENT.
   The City of Harris is a Statutory City as defined by Minnesota Statutes.
(Prior Code, § 103.01)
§ 30.02 ELECTION DATE.
   The regular city election shall be held bi-annually on the first Tuesday
after the first Monday of November of each even numbered year.
(Prior Code, § 103.02)
§ 30.03 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The terms of office of city officers shall be in accordance with M.S. §
412.02, as it may be amended from time to time, unless otherwise provided
herein.
(Prior Code, § 103.03)
CHAPTER 31: OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
31.01   City officers
   
31.02   Compensation
   
31.03   Officers appointed
   
31.04   Bonds
§ 31.01 CITY OFFICERS.
   All officers of the city elected or appointed for a regular term of office
or to complete the unexpired portion of any regular term shall be included in
the definition of EMPLOYEE as defined in Minnesota Statutes relating to
coverage for purposes of workers’ compensation entitlement.
(Ord. 2006-2-1, passed 2-27-2006)
§ 31.02 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   When not otherwise provided for by law, compensation of all officers
and employees of the city shall be set by the City Council.
   (B)   Authorization. Pursuant to M.S. § 415.11, the City Council establishes
the salaries of the Mayor and Councilmembers in an amount that the Council has
deemed reasonable. No change in salary shall take effect until the next
succeeding municipal election.
      (1)   Mayor salary. The salary for the Mayor shall be set at $100 per
regular meeting and $100 per special meeting.
      (2)   Councilmember salary. The salary for each Councilmember shall be
set at $75 per regular meeting and $75 per special meeting.
(Prior Code, § 104.01) (Am. Ord. 2008-05, passed 9-8-2008; Am. Ord. 2016-07,
passed 10-17-2016; Am. Ord. 2022-04, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 31.03 OFFICERS APPOINTED.
   The following officers shall be appointed by the Council on the first
meeting in January of each year except as otherwise indicated, and shall hold
office at the pleasure of the Council.
   (A)   Acting Mayor.
   (B)   City Engineer.
   (C)   City Planner.
   (D)   City Attorney.
   (E)   Building Inspector.
   (F)   Animal Control.
   (G)   Other Council committees as are deemed appropriate for the efficient
and orderly management of the city.
   (H)   Other officers and employees as shall be provided from time to time by
ordinances or resolutions.
(Prior Code, § 104.02)
§ 31.04 BONDS.
   All bonds required by statute or otherwise required by the Council for any
city officer or employee shall be renewable annually and approved by the
Council at the first meeting in January of each year. Bond premiums shall be
paid out of the city treasury when due.
(Prior Code, § 104.03)
CHAPTER 32: RULES OF COUNCIL PROCEDURE
Section
   
32.01   Meetings
   
32.02   Special meetings
   
32.03   Emergency meetings
   
32.04   Presiding officer
   
32.05   Quorum
   
32.06   Proceedings
   
32.07   Mayor - powers
   
32.08   Agenda
   
32.09   Minutes
   
32.10   Rules of order
   
32.11   Amendment of rules
   
32.12   Ordinance validity
§ 32.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The City Council shall have regular sessions on the second Monday of
each month at 7:00 p.m., and, if the Monday shall fall on a legal holiday,
shall have its regular sessions on the following Monday.
   (B)   All meetings shall be held in the City Hall, or a place as may be
designated by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 105.01)
§ 32.02 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   Special meetings may be called by the Mayor or by any other two
members of the Council.
   (B)   The Mayor or any two members of the City Council may call a special
meeting of the City Council upon at least 24-hours' written notice to each
member of the City Council. This notice shall be delivered personally to each
member or shall be left at the member's usual place of residence with some
responsible person. Pursuant to M.S. Chapter 13D, as it may be amended from
time to time, written notice of any special meeting shall be posted giving the
date, time, place and purpose of the meeting at least three days before the
meeting. Written notice shall be mailed at least three days before the meeting
to anyone who has filed a written request for notice of special meetings. In
calculating the three days, if the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or
legal holiday, the next regular business day shall be counted as the third day.
(Prior Code, § 105.02)
§ 32.03 EMERGENCY MEETINGS.
   Notice of emergency meetings shall be given as required by M.S. Chapter 13D,
as it may be amended from time to time. An emergency meeting is a meeting
defined by M.S. Chapter 13D, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 32.04 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   The Mayor, or in his or her absence, the Acting Mayor, shall preside
at all meetings of the Council.
   (B)   The Acting Mayor, when occupying the place of the Mayor shall have the
same privileges as other members.
(Prior Code, § 105.03)
§ 32.05 QUORUM.
   The Council shall consist of the Mayor and four Council members. A majority
of the Council members shall constitute a quorum to do business. In the absence
of a quorum, a smaller number may adjourn from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 105.04)
§ 32.06 PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   At the hour appointed for meeting, the members shall be called to
order by the Mayor, and in his or her absence by the Acting Mayor, and in the
absence of both, by the Clerk. In the absence of the Clerk, the Mayor shall
appoint a secretary pro tem.
   (B)   Upon the appearance of a quorum, the Council shall proceed to
business.
(Prior Code, § 105.05)
§ 32.07 MAYOR - POWERS.
   (A)   The Mayor shall preserve order and decorum and shall decide questions
of order subject to an appeal to the Council.
   (B)   The Mayor may make motions, second motions, or speak of any questions,
provided, that upon demand of any one Council member, in order to do so, he or
she shall vacate the chair and designate a trustee to preside temporarily.
(Prior Code, § 105.06)
§ 32.08 AGENDA.
   Petitions and other papers addressed to the Council shall be read by the
Clerk upon presentation of the same to the Council. All persons desiring to
present new business before the Council shall inform the Clerk thereof at least
five days before the new business is to be heard. The Clerk may prepare an
agenda of the new business for submission to the Council on or before the time
of the next regular meeting. The Council may in its discretion waive the prior
notice requirement when deemed appropriate.
(Prior Code, § 105.07)
§ 32.09 MINUTES.
   Minutes of the meeting shall be kept by the Clerk. They shall be signed by
the Clerk, and shall constitute an official record of the Council proceedings.
Upon approval of the minutes at a subsequent meeting of the Council, the Mayor
shall sign the minutes. Lack of the Mayor’s signature or Council approval shall
not invalidate the minutes as official records.
(Prior Code, § 105.08)
§ 32.10 RULES OF ORDER.
   In all points not covered by these rules, the Council shall be governed in
its procedure by Robert’s Rules of Order.
(Prior Code, § 105.09)
§ 32.11 AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   The foregoing rules are adopted to facilitate the transaction of Council
business. Any rule except §
32.04 may be suspended by consent of 4/5 of the members present.
(Prior Code, § 105.10)
§ 32.12 ORDINANCE VALIDITY.
   No ordinance passed by a majority of Council members in the presence of a
quorum shall be held invalid for failure to comply with these rules unless a
member of the Council objects no later than the next regular meeting of the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 105.11)
CHAPTER 33: CITY BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
33.01   Commission established
   
33.02   Composition
   
33.03   Organization, meetings, minutes and expenditures
   
33.04   Powers and duties; comprehensive plan
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 33.01 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   A City Planning Commission is hereby established. The Planning Commission
shall be the city planning agency authorized by M.S. § 462.354(1), as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 502.01)
§ 33.02 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members from the
resident population of the city to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval
of the City Council. The appointees shall be appointed to serve staggered terms
of three years, except as noted below, commencing on the first day of January
in the year of appointment. Upon expiration of a term, the appointee shall
continue until reappointed or a successor is appointed. Absences from any three
meetings in a year, unless excused in advance by the Chair, constitutes a
vacancy. In the event of any vacancy, the Mayor, with the approval of the City
Council, shall appoint a person to complete the unexpired term.
   (B)   One member may be a Council Member or the City Clerk, to be appointed
by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council. This member shall serve for
a one year term, to expire on December 31 of each year.
   (C)   Other persons may serve in an ex officio capacity as the City Council
may, in its discretion, deem appropriate.
   (D)   Each of the five regular Planning Commission members shall have equal
voting privileges. Any member may be removed for cause by majority vote of the
City Council upon written charge and after a public hearing.
§ 33.03 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS, MINUTES AND EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   At the first regular meeting in January, the Planning Commission shall
elect a Chairperson, a Vice-Chairperson and a Secretary from among its
appointed members, each for a term of one year. The Planning Commission may
create and fill other offices as it may determine.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least one meeting each month at
the time and place as they may fix by resolution. Special meetings may be
called at any time by the Chairperson, or in the case of the Chairperson's
absence, by the Vice-Chairperson.
   (C)   Written minutes of meetings shall be kept and filed with the City
Clerk prior to the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting, but shall be
subject to the approval at the next Planning Commission meeting.
   (D)   No expenditures by the Planning Commission shall be made unless and
until authorized for the purpose by the City Council.
§ 33.04 POWERS AND DUTIES; COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   (A)   Generally. The Planning Commission shall have the powers and duties
given to city planning agencies generally by law. The Planning Commission shall
also exercise the duties conferred upon it by this code. It shall be the
purpose of the Planning Commission to prepare and adopt a comprehensive plan
for the physical development of the city, including proposed public buildings,
street arrangements and improvements, efficient design of major thoroughfares
for moving of traffic, parking facilities, public utilities services, parks and
playgrounds, a general land use plan and other matters relating to the physical
development of the city. This plan may be prepared in sections, each of which
shall relate to a comprehensive plan program. After the Planning Commission has
prepared and adopted the comprehensive plan, it shall periodically, but at
least every three years, review the comprehensive plan and any ordinances or
programs implementing the plan.
   (B)   Means of executing plan. Upon the adoption of a comprehensive plan or
any section thereof, it shall be the concern of the Planning Commission to
recommend to the City Council reasonable and practical means for putting into
effect the plan or section thereof in order that it will serve as a pattern and
guide for the orderly physical development of the city and as a basis for
judging the timely disbursements of funds to implement the objective. Means of
effectuating the plan shall, among other things, consist of a zoning ordinance,
subdivision regulations, capital improvement programming and technical review,
and recommendations of matters referred to the Planning Commission by the City
Council.
   (C)   Zoning ordinance. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357(3), as it may be amended
from time to time, the Planning Commission shall review all proposed amendments
to the zoning ordinance, take part in public hearings, and make recommendations
to the City Council as may be prescribed by the zoning ordinance.
   (D)   Conditional permits. The Planning Commission may make recommendations
on all requests for a conditional use permit under the terms of the zoning
ordinance. The Planning Commission shall report its recommendations to the City
Council for action.
   (E)   Subdivision regulations. The Planning Commission may make
recommendations in relation to the subdividing of land as prescribed by the
ordinance. The Planning Commission shall report its recommendations to the City
Council for action.
   (F)   Variances. All applications for variances may be referred to the
Planning Commission, and forwarded with or without recommendations directly to
the City Council, which shall have the powers of a Board of Appeals and
Adjustments as provided for in M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 6, as it may be amended
from time to time for its decision. The City Council, acting as the Board of
Appeals and Adjustments, may hear requests for variances from the literal
provisions of the ordinance in instances only where their strict enforcement
would cause undue hardship because of circumstances unique to the individual
property under consideration, and may grant variances only when it is
demonstrated that such actions will be in keeping with the spirit and intent of
the ordinance. UNDUE HARDSHIP as used in connection with the granting of a
variance, means the property in question cannot be put to a reasonable use if
used under conditions allowed by the official controls, the plight of the
landowner is due to circumstances unique to the property not created by the
landowner, and the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality. Economic considerations alone shall not constitute an undue
hardship if reasonable use for the property exists under the terms of the
ordinance. UNDUE HARDSHIP also includes, but is not limited to inadequate
access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems. Variances shall be granted
for earth-sheltered construction as defined in M.S. § 216C.06, Subd. 2, as it
may be amended from time to time, when in harmony with the ordinance. The Board
of Appeals and Adjustments may not permit as a variance any use that is not
permitted under the ordinance for property in the zone where the affected
person's land is located. The Board may permit as a variance the temporary use
of a one-family dwelling as a two-family dwelling. The Board may impose
conditions in the granting of variances to ensure compliance and to protect
adjacent properties. All variances issued shall by filed by the City Clerk with
the County Recorder.
CHAPTER 34: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
34.01   Fire Department established
   
34.02   Appointment of officers
   
34.03   Duties of Fire Marshal
   
34.04   Duties of Fire Chief
   
34.05   Records
   
34.06   Training drills
   
34.07   Officers
   
34.08   Firefighters
   
34.09   Loss of membership
   
34.10   Emergency protection fire services fees
§ 34.01 FIRE DEPARTMENT ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby continued as heretofore established in the city a volunteer
fire department, which Department shall have the following officers: a Fire
Chief; a First Assistant Chief/Safety Officer; a Second Assistant Chief; a
Training Captain; and an EMR Captain.
(Ord. 9-01-06, passed 10-9-2006; Am. Ord. 2009-04, passed 6-9-2009; Am. Ord.
2014-01, passed 4-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 34.02 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Fire Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed by the City
Council for a period of one year. Members of the Department will recommend to
the City Council a nominee or nominees for appointment by submitting same in
writing to the Council prior to January 1 of the year in which the appointment
is to be made. The Fire Chief may be removed by Council without need to show
cause.
   (B)   The City Council shall appoint a Fire Marshal. The Fire Marshal shall
hold office for one year from January 1 in the month of appointment. The Fire
Marshal may be removed by Council without need to show cause.
   (C)   Members of the Department elect the First Assistant Chief/Safety
Officer, the Second Assistant Chief, the Training Captain, and the EMR Captain
during their election meeting in December, for a period of one year. These
positions will be subject to confirmation by the City Council. The above-named
officers may be removed by the Council without need to show cause.
   (D)   Firefighters and probationary firefighters shall be appointed by the
Fire Chief, subject to confirmation by the City Council. Firefighters may be
dismissed by the City Council for any or no reason.
(Ord. 9-01-06, passed 10-9-2006; Am. Ord. 2009-04, passed 6-9-2009; Am. Ord.
2014-01, passed 4-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 34.03 DUTIES OF FIRE MARSHAL.
   The Fire Marshal shall be charged with the enforcement of all ordinances
aimed at fire prevention, and shall have full authority to inspect all premises
and to cause the removal or abatement of all fire hazards.
(Ord. 9-01-06, passed 10-9-2006; Am. Ord. 2009-04, passed 6-9-2009; Am. Ord.
2014-01, passed 4-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 34.04 DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall have control over all of the firefighting
apparatus and shall be solely responsible for its care and condition. The Fire
Chief shall make monthly reports at each City Council meeting concerning the
condition of the equipment and the needs of the Fire Department. At these
Council meetings, the Fire Chief shall report any suspension of a member of the
Fire Department at the first meeting following the suspension.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for the proper training and
discipline of the members of the Fire Department and may suspend any member,
pending final action by the Council on either discharge or retention.
(Ord. 9-01-06, passed 10-9-2006; Am. Ord. 2009-04, passed 6-9-2009; Am. Ord.
2014-01, passed 4-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 34.05 RECORDS.
   The Fire Chief shall keep in convenient form a complete record of all fires.
The record shall include the time of the alarm, location of fire, cause of fire
(if known), type of building, name of owner and tenant, purpose for which the
building is occupied, value of building and contents, names of members of the
Department responding to the alarm, and any other information as the Fire Chief
may deem advisable or as may be required from time to time by the City Council
or the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. 9-01-06, passed 10-9-2006; Am. Ord. 2009-04, passed 6-9-2009; Am. Ord.
2014-01, passed 4-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 34.06 TRAINING DRILLS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to hold a monthly training drill of
at least two hour’s duration for the Fire Department and to give the
firefighters instruction in approved methods of firefighting and fire
prevention.
(Ord. 9-01-06, passed 10-9-2006; Am. Ord. 2009-04, passed 6-9-2009; Am. Ord.
2014-01, passed 4-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 34.07 OFFICERS.
   In the absence or disability of the Fire Chief, the First Assistant Chief/
Safety Officer, the Second Assistant Chief, the Training Captain, or the EMR
Captain, in order of rank, shall perform all the functions and exercise all of
the authority of the Fire Chief, except for spending and budgeting authority.
(Ord. 9-01-06, passed 10-9-2006; Am. Ord. 2009-04, passed 6-9-2009; Am. Ord.
2014-01, passed 4-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 34.08 FIREFIGHTERS.
   All firefighters and probationary firefighters shall be not less than 18
years of age and able-bodied. They shall become members of the Fire Department
only after successfully completing a six-month probationary period. Each
candidate, before becoming a firefighter, must satisfy certain physical agility
requirements and satisfactorily pass a physical examination.
(Ord. 9-01-06, passed 10-9-2006; Am. Ord. 2009-04, passed 6-9-2009; Am. Ord.
2014-01, passed 4-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 34.09 LOSS OF MEMBERSHIP.
   Firefighters who fail to attend at least 25% of all emergency calls, a
minimum of 14 of the 20 inside training sessions, and a minimum of 8 of the 12
duty rosters within the 12-month calendar period shall forfeit membership in
the Department.
(Ord. 9-01-06, passed 10-9-2006; Am. Ord. 2014-01, passed 4-14-2014; Am. Ord.
2016-01, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 34.10 EMERGENCY PROTECTION FIRE SERVICES FEES.
   (A)   Purposes and intent. This section is adopted for the purpose of
authorizing the city to charge for fire service as authorized by M.S. §§
366.011, 366.012, and 415.01.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FALSE ALARM. Any fire service call for which fire service was not
required, including false reports in violation of state law.
      FIRE PROTECTION CONTRACT. A contract between the city and a town, or
other city, for the city to provide fire service.
      FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment
to extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to
protect equipment, life, or property in an area threatened by fire. It also
includes the deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to provide
fire suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire
and first responders rescue as may occasionally occur.
      FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the city for receiving fire
service.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed and originally
manufactured to operate primarily upon public roads and highways, and not
operated exclusively upon railroad tracks. It includes semi trailers. It does
not include snowmobiles, manufactured homes, all terrain vehicles, or park
trailers.
      MUTUAL AID AGREEMENT. An agreement between the city and a town, or other
city, for the city's fire department to provide assistance to the fire
department of a town or other city.
   (C)   Parties affected:
      (1)   Owners of property within the city who receive fire service;
      (2)   Anyone who receives fire service as a result of a motor vehicle
within the city; and
      (3)   Owners of property in towns or cities to which the city provides
fire service pursuant to a fire protection contract.
   (D)   Rates. The fire service charges shall be set forth in the current city
fee schedule.
   (E)   Billing and collection. For all billed services:
      (1)   Parties requesting and receiving fire services will be billed
directly by the city. Additionally, if the party receiving fire services did
not request services but a fire or other situation exists which, at the
discretion of the Fire Department personnel in charge requires fire service,
the party will be charged and billed. All parties will be billed whether or not
the fire service is covered by insurance. Any billable amount of the fire
charge not covered by a party's insurance remains a debt of the party receiving
the fire service.
      (2)   Parties billed for fire service will have 30 days to pay. If the
fire service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent
and the city will send a notice of delinquency.
      (3)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after this
notice of delinquency is sent, the city will use all practical and reasonable
legal means to collect the fire service charge. The party receiving fire
service shall be liable for all collection costs incurred by the city
including, but not limited to, reasonable attorney fees and court costs.
      (4)   If the fire service charge remains unpaid for 30 days after the
notice of delinquency is sent, the City Council may also, on or before October
15 of each year, certify the unpaid fire service charge to the County Auditor
in which the recipient of the services owns real property for collection with
property taxes. The County Auditor is responsible for remitting to the city all
charges collected on behalf of the city. The city must give the property owner
notice of its intent to certify the unpaid fire service charge by September 15.
      (5)   A false alarm will be billed as a fire call only after four prior
false alarms within a 12-month period starting from the date of the first false
alarm by the same property owner. On the fifth false alarm call, the property
owner will be charged as set forth in the current city fee schedule, with each
additional false alarm call increasing by $50. (Example: fifth call charged at
$50, sixth call charged at $100, seventh call charged at $150, and so on.)
   (F)   Cost of damaged equipment. If there is any damage to equipment of the
Harris Fire Department during a mutual aid fire or incident, the cost of repair
or replacement of the damaged equipment may be billed separately, at the
request and discretion of the Fire Chief.
   (G)   Mutual aid agreement. There will be no charge for mutual aid as per
the mutual aid agreement.
   (H)   Application of collections to budget. All collected fire charges will
be city funds and used to offset the expenses of the city Fire Department in
providing fire services.
(Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 7-23-2007; Am. Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 9-8-2008; Am.
Ord. 2007-07-23, passed 11-8-2010)
CHAPTER 35: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
35.01   Police provided by outside agency
§ 35.01 POLICE PROVIDED BY OUTSIDE AGENCY.
   The city does not have a Police Department. The city contracts for law
enforcement services with an outside agency.
CHAPTER 36: FEE SCHEDULE
Section
   
36.01   Fee schedule
§ 36.01 FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   All fees for licenses and permits and all charges imposed by the city
for services shall be determined by the City Council and recorded on a fee
schedule.
   (B)   All fees for licenses and permits and all charges imposed by the city
for services contained in the ordinances of the city shall be in full force
until such time that an ordinance is adopted by the City Council changing the
fee or charge.
   (C)   To the extent not included in the fee schedule as set forth below, the
fees set forth in this code shall remain in full force and effect. Where
conflicting, fees set forth in the fee schedule take precedence over fees found
elsewhere in the code.
   (D)   "Costs" referred to herein shall include all administrative,
technical, engineering, and legal expenses.
   (E)   The current fee schedule is included in Appendix A to this chapter.
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 1-9-2023)
APPENDIX A: FEE SCHEDULE
   (A)   Clerk’s Office fees.
Fee Name Fee
Fee Name                                             Fee
Affidavit of Candidacy                               $15
Copies (per page)                                    $.25
Fax (per page)                                       $1
Assessment search                                    $25
Bad check fee (plus bank fee)                        $30
Copy of budget                                       $12
Copy of city audit                                   $20
Copy of comprehensive plan                           $30
Copy of zoning ordinance                             $20
Copy of subdivision ordinance                        $20
Special meeting fee                                  $250
Agenda mailing - City Council (per year)             $100
Agenda mailing - Planning Commission (per year)      $100
Agenda mailing - Special Council and Commission (per $25
year)
Meeting recordings (per meeting)                     $10
City or zoning map (2' x 3') black and white         $15
City or zoning map (2' x 3') color                   $20
City or zoning map (3' x 4') black and white         $20
City or zoning map (3' x 4') color                   $30
Copy of city code                                    $150
Notary service (per document)                        $5
Engineering design standards                         $150/paper copy; $50/CD
License fees:
Cigarette license                                    $175
Cigarette license late fee (received after due date) $100
Dance license                                        $100
Dance license - temporary (per day)                  $20
Dog license                                          $5
Animal permit (single)                               $5
Animal permit (multiple)                             $20
Parade permit                                        $20
Special event permit                                 $20
Garbage hauler license                               $150
Mechanical installer s license                       $15
Transient merchant/peddler license - one-day permit  $15
(per day)
Transient merchant/peddler license - 30-day permit   $75
Liquor license fees:
On-sale liquor, wine, or beer license application and investigation fee:
General fee                                          $500
   Additional per person or entity fee            $200
   Escrow for out of state applicant              $1,000
   Manager investigation fee                      $300
Duplicate alcohol license                            $10
Annual off-sale liquor license                       $150
Annual on-sale liquor license                        $2,000
Annual off-sale beer license                         $100
Annual on-sale beer and wine license                 $750
Annual Sunday liquor license                         $200
Temporary liquor license                             $150
Temporary beer and wine license                      $50
Annual Sunday on-sale beer and wine license          $100
Liquor license late fee (received after due date)    $200
Staff time charges:
City Clerk's time (per hour)                         $30
City Treasurer's time (per hour over 1/2 hour only - $30
retroactive)
Staff time charges (cont d):
Project Manager's time (per hour)                    $30
Fire Chief inspection time (per hour)                $30
Public Works time (per hour over 1/2 hour only -     $50
retroactive)
 
   (B)   Park fees.
 
Fee Name                                                                  Fee
Shelter/concession rental (including electricity, per weekend)            $25
Ball field use for summer league (per team, per night a week, per season) $100
Ball field use for summer league (daily fee)                              $10
Ball field advertising (6 month fee)                                      $150
City hall rental (per day or event)                                       $100
Deposit for city hall rental                                              $100
 
   (C)   Street Department fees.
 
Fee Name                                               Fee
Street obstruction application fee (closure of street) $50
Excavation fee (interruptions of road surface)         $75
Obstruction/excavation escrow fee                      $2,500
Sign installation fee                                  $300
 
   (D)   Zoning Department fees.
Fee Name                                                                Fee
Variance application fee                                                $200
Conditional use permit application fee                                  $200
Rezoning application fee                                                $200
Interim use permit application fee                                      $200
Accessory structure before primary structure is built fee               $200
   Escrow - to be returned after a certificate of occupancy is receiv$8,000
Recording fee                                                           $50
Site plan review                                                        $200
Zoning ordinance text amendment                                         $200
Escrow fee for: CUP, variance, rezoning, interim                        $2,500
Business established in wrong zone (weekly effective 30 days after      $100
letter of notice is sent and no application has been completed)
Preliminary and final subdivision application fee                       $300
Subdivision/plat cost deposit
   Initial deposit 1 - 3 lots (plus actual costs)                    $2,500
   Initial deposit 4 - 50 lots (plus actual costs)                   $5,000
   Initial deposit 51 or more lots (plus actual costs)               $10,000
Waiver of subdivision application                                       $100
Metes and bounds subdivision application                                $300
Metes and bounds, lot reconfiguration cost deposit (plus actual costs)  $500
Lot reconfiguration application fee                                     $300
Planned unit development application                                    $300
Preliminary planned unit development cost deposit (per acre)            $5,000
Subdivision recreation fee (per lot)                                    $1,500
Fence permit                                                            $40
Business sign permit                                                    $50
Temporary family healthcare dwelling
   Application                                                       $100
   Renewal                                                           $50
 
   (E)   Building Department fees. All building permits are administered
through Chisago County.
Fee Name Fee
Fee Name                                Fee
Building permits:
The city, pursuant to M.S. 16B.62, Subd. 1, shall collect from each applicant a
building permit fee based upon the total valuation of a project as set forth
below:
Total Valuation
                                        $69.25 for the first $2,000 plus $14
$2,000 to $25,000                       for each additional $1,000 or fraction
                                        thereof, to and including $25,001
                                        $391.25 for the first $25,000 plus
$25,001 to $50,000                      $10.10 for each additional $1,000, or
                                        fraction thereof, to and including
                                        $50,001
                                        $643.75 for the first $50,000 plus $7
$50,001 to $100,000                     for each additional $1,000, or fraction
                                        thereof, to and including $100,001
                                        $993.75 for the first $100,000 plus
$101,001 to $500,000                    $5.60 for each additional $1,000, or
                                        fraction thereof, to and including
                                        $500,001
                                        $3,233.75 for the first $500,000 plus
$500,001 to $1,000,000                  $4.75 for each additional $1,000 or
                                        fraction thereof, to and including
                                        $1,000,001
                                        $5,608.75 for the first $1,000,000 plus
$1,000,001 and up                       $3.15 for each additional $1,000, or
                                        fraction thereof
Plan review (percent of building permit    65%
fee)
State surcharge (percent of valuation)     $0.00
All building permits are based on valuation - there are no flat fee building
permits. Plumbing, heating, and mechanical work is included in the building
permit. The Building Inspector shall utilize the state Department of
Administration Building Valuation Data distributed annually in May of each
year.
Re-inspection fees assessed under
provisions of 305.8 of the 2007 Uniform $47
Building Code (per hour)
Agriculture buildings site permit       $20
Demolition permits:
Permit includes pre-demolition inspection, asbestos testing, lab fees of 3
samples and reclamation inspections. Performance bond guarantees proper removal
and disposal of materials, abandonment of septic system and reclamation of
property.
Residence/commercial (includes Fire     $500
Department burns)
Demolition permit performance bond      $5,000
Septic systems (SSTS) permits and fees:
Residential - new home or replacement   $300
trench system
Replacement mound system                $347
Tank only                               $150
Septic systems (SSTS) permits and fees (cont d):
Repair                                  $50
Addition of pretreatment                $150
Other or commercial establishment and
midsized 5,000 - 9,999 gpd (plus any    $500
associated engineering fees)
Midsize hookup (without individual      $50
tanks)
Operating permits involve monitoring and are required for holding tanks,
privies, midsized systems and Type II, III, IV, or V systems installed
Single-Family Residence (per year of    $25
required monitoring)
Commercial up to 4,999 gpd (per year)   $50
Commercial 5,000 to 9,999 gpd (per year $100
plus any associated engineering fees)
Point of sale septic certification      $200
Point of sale septic certification for  $100
holding tanks
Driveway permits and deposits:
New driveway installed on city street.
$900 refunded to applicant after        $1,000
installation/inspection/appro val
 
   (F)   Public Utilities fees.
Fee Name                                                            Fee
Basic water charge per month - commercial (per REU)                 $59.17
Basic water charge per month - residential                          $59.17
Water charge/1000 gallons                                           $5.14
Water conservation fee/1000 gallons after 40,000 gallons bi-monthly $6.61
Basic sewer charge per month - commercial                           $45.23
Basic sewer charge per month - residential                          $37.43
Sewer charge/1000 gallons                                           $11.12
Sewer connection fee                                                $3,500
Water connection fee                                                $2,500
Water trunk area charge per acre                                    $1,061
Sewer trunk area charge per acre                                    $1,804
Late fee for water bill (of bill amount)                            $0.10
After hours shut-off/turn-on                                        $200
Involuntary shut-off or turn-on of water service                    $60
Voluntary shut-off or turn-on of water service                      $25
Administrative fee to certify to tax levy fee                       $75
Annual wastewater permit                                            $180
Hauled wastewater (per 1,000 gallons)                               $50
Bulk water off hydrant (per gallon)                                 $0.03
 
   (G)   Oak Grove Cemetery.
 
Fee Name                  Fee
Cemetery Lots              
   Resident (per lot)  $500
   Non-resident (per lo$750
 
(Ord. 2023-01, passed 1-9-2023)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
         
51.   WATER REGULATIONS
         
52.   [RESERVED]
         
53.   SEWER REGULATIONS
         
54.   PUBLIC UTILITY FEE STRUCTURE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Sanitation collection service required
   
50.03   Container required; placement
   
50.04   Meddling with trash receptacles prohibited
   
50.05   Containers to be kept sanitary and secure
   
50.06   Unauthorized private collections prohibited
   
50.07   Sanitation service: city options.
   
50.08   Removal of building materials
   
50.09   Prohibited acts
   
50.10   Nonresidential customers; container types; collection schedules
   
50.11   Manner of collection and transportation
   
50.12   Licensing for collection
   
50.13   Collection of leaves, trees or tree limbs
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Organic refuse resulting from the preparation of food, and decayed
and spoiled food from any source.
   RUBBISH. All inorganic refuse matter such as tin cans, glass, paper, ashes
and the like.
§ 50.02 SANITATION COLLECTION SERVICE REQUIRED.
   Every person owning, managing, operating, leasing or renting any premises or
any place where garbage or rubbish accumulates shall subscribe to a sanitation
collection service.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.03 CONTAINER REQUIRED; PLACEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person whose garbage and refuse is
collected by the sanitation collection service to provide a container or
containers for garbage and refuse, sufficient in size and number to accommodate
and securely keep all garbage and refuse that may accumulate between
collections. Garbage containers shall be watertight and constructed of a solid
and durable grade of metal, plastic, or paper material.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person whose garbage and refuse is
collected by the sanitation collection service to place their garbage
containers directly behind the curbline of the street abutting their property
or in the absence of a curb directly behind the ditch line abutting their
property. In no event shall containers be placed in the street or on the
sidewalk or in any manner placed where the containers will interfere with
vehicular or pedestrian traffic. It shall be the responsibility of the
subscriber to place the containers no earlier than 6:00 p.m. of the afternoon
preceding the collection day.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.04 MEDDLING WITH TRASH RECEPTACLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to meddle with garbage cans, trash or rubbish
receptacles or in any way pilfer, search or scatter contents of garbage cans or
rubbish receptacles in or upon any street or alley within the city limits.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to persons authorized by the city or
persons authorized by state or federal law to search or otherwise meddle with
trash receptacles.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.05 CONTAINERS TO BE KEPT SANITARY AND SECURE.
   All containers shall be kept clean and free from accumulation of any
substance remaining attached to the inside of the container which would attract
or breed flies, mosquitoes, or other insects. The area surrounding garbage
containers shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition. The contents
of all receptacles shall be protected so that the wind cannot scatter the
contents over the streets, alleys or other property within the city. All
containers shall be securely closed in a manner as to prevent the scattering of
the contents and to make them inaccessible to insects, rodents and other
animals.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.06 UNAUTHORIZED PRIVATE COLLECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport garbage or refuse for
hire which has been collected from any premises within the city over any public
street within the city.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any person who at the time of the
activity is operating under a valid contract or franchise granted by the city
which authorizes that person to use the public streets to conduct that
activity.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.07 SANITATION SERVICE: CITY OPTIONS.
   The City Council may provide for sanitation collection services within the
city by use of city employees and vehicles, or it may grant licenses under the
terms and conditions of §
50.12, or it may contract with one or more contractors for the provision of
these services under the terms and conditions negotiated with the contractors,
except that the provisions for insurance under §
50.12(E) shall always apply.
§ 50.08 REMOVAL OF BUILDING MATERIALS.
   Waste from building operations, rock waste, building materials or other
refuse resulting from building or remodeling operations or resulting from a
general cleanup of vacant or improved property shall be removed by the building
contractor, owner or occupant of the building at his or her own expense. It
shall be unlawful for any person to place those materials in any dumpster or
other trash receptacle for disposal by the city or any agent or contractor of
the city.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.09 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sweep, throw or deposit any
garbage, trash, debris, stagnant water or dead animal into, upon or along any
public property or private property of another, except as may be specifically
provided by this chapter.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or otherwise in control of
any premises within the city to permit any of the conditions described in
division (A) to exist upon property owned or controlled by him or her after
having actual or constructive notice thereof.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place in any container any
material other than as specifically provided in this chapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit or maintain garbage or
trash except as provided for by this chapter.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit any burning match,
charcoal, ember, or other material in any container used for the disposal of
garbage.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.10 NONRESIDENTIAL CUSTOMERS; CONTAINER TYPES; COLLECTION SCHEDULES.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or person otherwise in charge of
multi-family, institutional or industrial premises within the city to cause all
garbage and trash accumulated on the premises to be placed in disposable
containers, or commercial-type containers. Commercial-type containers may be
used and may be placed at a location on the premises as arranged between the
customer and the collector, but subject to review by the city at any time.
   (B)   Disposable containers shall be placed at a location on the premises
which is readily accessible to the collector.
   (C)   The amount and character of garbage shall be considered in
establishing size of commercial containers and frequency of pickup. The city
shall have final authority to establish the size and frequency based on the
history of amount and type of garbage generated by the customer. The collection
and removal of garbage and trash from premises used for commercial,
institutional, or industrial purposes shall be made as often as necessary in
order to maintain the premises free of accumulations. Garbage, except dry trash
in contractor-supplied containers, shall be collected not less than one time
each week, except for roll-off containers which shall not be subject to this
provision so long as they are used solely for brush and dry trash.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.11 MANNER OF COLLECTION AND TRANSPORTATION.
   (A)   The collection, removal and disposal of all garbage, trash and brush
shall be carried on in a systematic, efficient manner to keep the city in a
clean and sanitary condition.
   (B)   All vehicles used for the collection and transportation of garbage and
trash shall be equipped with suitable covers which shall be used to prevent
blowing or scattering of refuse while garbage and trash are being transported
for disposal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.12 LICENSING FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Purpose. In order to provide for a continuous system of refuse
collection and disposal in a manner which meets the needs and conveniences of
the residents of the city and in order to protect the area from the problems of
uncoordinated, unsanitary and improper solid waste disposal, the City Council
may determine that it is in the best interests of the residents of the city to
require licenses of persons collecting or hauling garbage and rubbish for hire,
reserving to the city the right and authority to contract with one or more
operators to provide these services.
   (B)   Licensing. No person may collect or haul garbage or rubbish within the
city without first obtaining a written license from the City Council. An
application for a license shall be submitted in writing to the City Clerk, and
shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   Description of the equipment which will be used within the city by
the applicant;
      (3)   A schedule of the rate that will be charged by the applicant for
the various categories of customers within the city;
      (4)   Evidence of compliance with the other applicable sections of this
chapter.
   (C)   Franchise. The City Council may exercise its reserved right to
contract with one or more operators for the collection of garbage and rubbish
within the city.
   (D)   Suspension of license or contract. A contract or license issued under
the provisions of this section may be revoked or suspended for a violation of
this chapter or other applicable regulations of law upon a showing that the
contractor or licensee has failed to comply with that regulation.
   (E)   Financial responsibility. The licensee or contractor shall show
financial responsibility or a certificate of insurance coverage prior to
obtaining the license or franchise whereby each vehicle to be used by the
licensee or contractor shall be covered against loss or injury in the following
amounts: $300,000 when the claim is one for death by wrongful act or omission
and $300,000 to any claimant in any other case; $1,000,000 for any number of
claims arising out of a single occurrence. The licensee or contractor shall
hold the city harmless and agrees to defend and indemnify the city, and the
city's employees and agents, for any claims, damages, losses, and expenses
related to the work under the license or contract. The city shall be named as
an additional insured under that insurance for the services provided under the
license or contract. The licensee's or contractor's insurance shall be the
primary insurance for the city and the licensee or contractor shall provide a
certificate of insurance on the city's approved form which verifies the
existence of the insurance required, including provisions to hold the city
harmless and defend and indemnify the city. The licensee or contractor shall
also provide evidence of workers compensation insurance for employees. These
insurance policies shall be for the full term of the license or franchise and
shall provide for the giving of ten days prior notice to the city of the
termination or cancellation of these policies. In case any policies are
terminated or cancelled, the license or contract shall be automatically revoked
upon receipt by the City Clerk of the termination or cancellation.
   (F)   Design of equipment. All trucks or motor vehicles used by the licensee
or contractor shall be water-tight so as not to allow the leakage of liquids or
refuse while hauling the same and shall be covered with a covering to prevent
the scattering of its contents upon the public streets or private properties in
the city.
   (G)   Inspections. All vehicles used for garbage or rubbish shall be made
available for inspection within the city at the times and places as the City
Council may designate.
   (H)   Bond. The contractor or licensee may be required to furnish a surety
bond in an amount as the City Council deems necessary running to and approved
by the City Council, guaranteeing the franchisee's or licensee's faithful and
continuous performance of the terms of the franchise, license or contract and
of this chapter.
§ 50.13 COLLECTION OF LEAVES, TREES OR TREE LIMBS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the collection for
hire by other persons of leaves, trees or tree limbs.
CHAPTER 51: WATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   General operation
   
51.02   Use of water service
   
51.03   Use to circumvent chapter prohibited
   
51.04   Damage to water system
   
51.05   Connections beyond city boundaries
   
51.06   Connection to system required; use of private wells
   
51.07   Use of water from fire hydrants; temporary connections
   
51.08   Water deficiency, shut off and use restrictions
Water Regulations
   
51.25   Supply from one service
   
51.26   Tapping of mains restricted
   
51.27   Repairs
   
51.28   Abandoned or unused services
   
51.29   Disconnection permit
   
51.30   Service pipes
   
51.31   Excavation and construction requirements
   
51.32   Connection to other water supplies restricted
   
51.33   Water connections; applications and charges
   
51.34   Location of curb stop box
   
51.35   Water meters
Rates and Charges
   
51.50   Water unit
   
51.51   Rates, fees and charges generally
   
51.52   Water service billing; change of address
   
51.53   Water rates
   
51.54   Payment of charges; late payment; collection
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.70   Supervision by Utilities Superintendent; licensing
   
51.71   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
51.72   Discontinuance of service
   
51.73   Authorized employees to turn water on and off
   
51.74   Liability for expense, loss or damage
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 GENERAL OPERATION.
   The city does hereby make provision for the establishment of a municipal
water system (hereinafter called the water system) to be operated as a public
utility.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 51.02 USE OF WATER SERVICE.
   No person other than a city employee shall uncover or make or use any water
service installation connected to the city water system except in the manner
provided by this chapter. No person shall make or use any installation contrary
to the regulatory provisions of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.03 USE TO CIRCUMVENT CHAPTER PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit water from the water system to be used for any
purpose to circumvent this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 DAMAGE TO WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall remove or damage any structure,
appurtenance, or part of the water system or fill or partially fill any
excavation or move any gate valve used in the water system.
   (B)   No person shall make any connection of an electrical welder to the
city water main, appurtenance or service or use an electric welder for the
purpose of thawing frozen water mains, appurtenances or services.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 CONNECTIONS BEYOND CITY BOUNDARIES.
   Where water mains of the city are in any street or alley adjacent to or
outside the corporate limits of the city, the City Council may issue permits to
the owners or occupants of properties adjacent or accessible to the water main
to make proper water service pipe connections with the water mains of the city
and to be supplied with water in conformity with the applicable provisions of
this chapter and subject to any contract for the supply of water between the
city and any other city.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 CONNECTION TO SYSTEM REQUIRED; USE OF PRIVATE WELLS.
   (A)   Except where municipal water is not available, it shall be unlawful to
construct, reconstruct, or repair any private water system which is designed or
intended to provide water for human consumption. Private wells, to provide
water for other than human consumption, may be constructed. Private wells must
be abandoned after connection is made to the municipal water supply. If the
abandonment is not made pursuant to this chapter, a charge shall be made in an
amount established by the City Council.
   (B)   All new homes or buildings shall connect to the municipal water system
if water is available to the property. At the time as municipal water becomes
available by being located within 100 feet of the boundary line of property on
which existing homes or buildings are located, a direct connection shall be
made to the public system within 90 days of a written notice to connect. If the
connection is not made pursuant to this chapter, a charge shall be made in an
amount established by the City Council.
   (C)   Where new homes or buildings do not have water available to the
property, the city shall determine whether and under what conditions the
municipal water system will be extended to serve the property.
   (D)   After the time a municipal water connection is made, private well
abandonment shall consist of:
      (1)   The well pump and tank shall be disconnected from all internal
piping;
      (2)   Well sealing shall be done by a licensed well contractor as
required by state law;
      (3)   The casing shall be sealed by pumping a grout mixture into the
well;
      (4)   Within 30 days after the municipal water connection is made, the
owner or occupant must advise the City Utilities Superintendent that the well
has been sealed.
      (5)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, all well abandonment shall be done
in accordance with M.S. §§ 103I.301 to 103I.345 and Minn. Rules Ch. 4725, Wells
and Borings, as it maybe amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 USE OF WATER FROM FIRE HYDRANTS; TEMPORARY CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Use of fire hydrants. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person,
unless authorized by the Public Works Director or Public Utilities Department,
shall operate fire hydrants or interfere in any way with the water system
without first obtaining a permit to do so from the city as follows.
      (1)   A permit to use a fire hydrant shall be issued for each individual
job or contract and for a minimum of 30 days and for the additional 30 day
period as the city shall determine. The permit shall state the location of the
hydrant and shall be for the use of that hydrant and none other.
      (2)   The user shall make an advance cash deposit to guarantee payment
for water used and to cover breakage and damage to the hydrant and meter,
which, shall be refunded upon expiration of the permit, less applicable charges
for use.
      (3)   The user shall relinquish the use of the hydrant to authorized city
employees in emergency situations.
      (4)   The user shall pay a rental charge as established pursuant to §
51.51 for each day including Sundays and legal holidays, for each 1,000 gallons
of water used.
   (B)   Temporary connection to fire hydrants. An owner of a private water
system may make a temporary above ground connection to a fire hydrant, subject
to the time periods, conditions, and payment specified in §
51.51. In addition, the method of connection to the private system shall
conform to all existing requirements of this chapter and city ordinance and the
type of meter used shall meet the approval of the Utilities Superintendent.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 WATER DEFICIENCY, SHUT OFF AND USE RESTRICTIONS.
    The city shall not be liable for any deficiency or failure in the supply of
water to consumers, whether occasioned by shutting the water off for the
purpose of making repairs or connections or from any other cause whatsoever. In
case of fire, or alarm of fire, or in making repairs of construction of new
works, water may be shut off without notice at any time and kept off as long as
necessary. In addition, the City Council shall have the right to impose
reasonable restrictions on the use of the city water system in emergency
situations. For non-payment of charges, water service may be discontinued
according to the procedures established in §
51.72.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014)
WATER REGULATIONS
§ 51.25 SUPPLY FROM ONE SERVICE.
   No more than one housing unit or building shall be supplied from one service
connection except by permission of City Council. Each unit served shall have a
separate water meter.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.26 TAPPING OF MAINS RESTRICTED.
   No person, except persons authorized by the City Council, shall tap any
distributing main or pipe of the water supply system or insert stopcocks or
ferrules therein.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.27 REPAIRS.
   (A)   Determination of need for repairs. Based on the information supplied
by the property owner or available to the city, the city will make a
determination whether a problem exists in that portion of the service which is
the city's responsibility. If the problem appears to exist in the areas for
which the city has no responsibility, the private owners will be responsible
for correction of the problem.
   (B)   Thawing of water services. The city will attempt to thaw water
services on request of the resident. If the problem is found within that
portion of the service for which the private owner is responsible, the private
owner thereafter will be responsible for thawing the service and correction of
the problem. The owner is responsible for the portion of the water service from
the water main to the home.
   (C)   Excavation or repair of water service.
      (1)   The city will arrange for the investigative digging up and repair
of any water service where the problem apparently exists within that area for
which the city has responsibility.
      (2)   Unless it is clearly evident, however, that the problem is the
responsibility of the city, the excavation and repair will not be made until
the property owner requests the city in writing to excavate or repair the
service and agrees to pay the cost.
      (3)   The owner further agrees to waive public hearing and be special
assessed the cost of the excavation and repair if the problem is found to be
other than the city's responsibility. The city will make the determination for
responsibility of the cost of investigation or repair.
      (4)   The matter of whether the dig up is done by city forces or
contracted would depend on the urgency or need of repair and the availability
of city forces to do the work. Recovery by the city for faulty construction
will depend upon the circumstances and the decision of the City Attorney on the
likelihood of recovery.
   (D)   Failure to repair. In case of failure upon the part of any consumer or
owner to repair any leak occurring in his or her service pipe within 24 hours
after verbal or written notice thereof, the water maybe turned off by the city
and shall not be turned on until the leak has been repaired and a fee pursuant
to §
51.51 has been paid to the city.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.28 ABANDONED OR UNUSED SERVICES.
   (A)   If the premises served by water have been abandoned, or if the service
has not been used for one year, then the service shall be shut off at the curb
stop box by the city and the water meter will be removed.
   (B)   When new buildings are erected on the site of old ones, and it is
desired to increase or change the old water service, no connections with the
mains shall be made until all the old service has been removed and the main
taps plugged or yoked connections installed by the city at the owner's expense.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.29 DISCONNECTION PERMIT.
   A permit must be obtained to disconnect from the existing water service
leads at the curb stop box. The fee for the permit shall be set pursuant to §
51.51.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.30 SERVICE PIPES.
   Every service pipe shall be laid so as to allow at least one foot of extra
length in order to prevent rupture by settlement. The service pipe must be
placed no less than 7.5 feet below the ground and in a manner as to prevent
rupture by freezing. Service pipes must extend from the curb stop box to the
inside of the building, or if not taken into the building, then to the hydrant
or fixtures which it is intended to supply. Type K copper tubing shall be used
unless prior written approval is obtained from the Utilities Superintendent.
All services over two inches shall be ductile iron pipe. All underground joints
are to be mechanical, except joints under floors shall be silver soldered,
unless otherwise approved by the Utilities Superintendent. Joints of copper
tubing shall be kept, to a minimum, with not more than one joint used for
service for each 100 feet in length. Splicing may be approved with three-piece
unions only. All joints and connections shall be left uncovered until inspected
by the Utilities Superintendent and tested at normal water line pressure.
Unions must be three-part type. All services over two inches shall be cast
iron. Connections with the mains for domestic supply shall be at least one inch
up to the curb stop box.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.31 EXCAVATION AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No excavation shall be made until a permit for the connection has been
issued by the city.
   (B)   No water service pipe or water connection shall be installed in the
same trench or closer than ten feet horizontally to a sewer trench or drain
laid, or to be laid, either in the street or in private property, except that
the water pipe on private property may be in a common trench with a sewer drain
which is of a material that is in conformance with the current Minnesota
Plumbing Code, Minn. Rules Chapter 4715, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Where it is desired to lay the water service pipe and the building
sewer pipe in the same trench, or in separate trenches less than ten feet
apart, the water service pipe shall be above the sewer pipe unless approved by
the City Engineer. It shall be placed at least two feet above the sewer, three
feet horizontal separation, and on a solid shelf excavated at one side of the
trench. The sewer pipe shall be of a material that is in conformance with the
Minnesota Plumbing Code with tested watertight joints. The water service pipe
shall be watertight and corrosion resistant. Copper pipe and ductile iron water
pipe with specially protected joints is acceptable for this construction. In
all cases, precautions shall be taken to assure a firm foundation for the
pipes. The intervening space between the pipes shall be backfilled with
compacted earth.
   (D)   In case the installation is on a surfaced street, the following shall
apply: all backfill materials shall be mechanically compacted in 12-inch layers
to the density of the adjacent material in the roadway area and to the existing
street grades in accordance with the Minnesota Department of Transportation
Standards as well as the City Engineer's design standards. Complete surface
restoration shall be made.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.32 CONNECTION TO OTHER WATER SUPPLIES RESTRICTED.
   No water pipe of the water system shall be connected with any pump, well,
tank, or piping that is connected with any other source of water supply except
to service municipal systems.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.33 WATER CONNECTIONS; APPLICATIONS AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Connection applications.
      (1)   All applications for service installations and for water service
shall be made to the City Clerk. All applications for service installations and
water service shall be made by the owner or agent of the property to be served
and shall state the size and location of service connection required. The
applicant shall, at the time of making application, pay to the city the amount
of fees as established by the Council or deposit required for the installation
of the service connection as hereinafter provided. Applications for services
larger than one inch shall be accompanied by two sets of plans or sketches
indicating preferred location of service pipe and size of service based on
building demand.
      (2)   The size of the water service connections and meter shall be
subject to approval of the City Engineer.
      (3)   Water billing shall start at the time of installation of the water
meter, or in the event the meter is not installed, seven days after completion
of outside piping, and shall be calculated upon the minimum, quarterly rate,
prorated on a semi-monthly basis.
   (B)   Connection charges.
      (1)   A permit must be obtained to connect to the existing water service
leads at the curb stop box. The fee for the permit shall be set pursuant to §
51.51. The city shall install or have installed all service connections from
the water main to the curb stop box including the stop box. Payment for service
connections must be made before the work is started and should be based upon 12
times the estimate of costs provided by the City Engineer. Any excess deposit
shall be returned to the applicant.
      (2)   Additional charges shall be paid at the time of making application
for tapping and making connections with the water main to where a curb stop box
and service lead is not previously installed. The charge shall include the
tapping of the water main, corporation costs, the installation of a service
line, the installation of a curb stop box, cost of restoring disturbed areas
and all other costs related to the installation.
      (3)   There shall be a connection charge pursuant to §
51.51 levied by the city to contribute to the payment of the costs of the
public water system facilities. The City Council shall set by resolution the
charges to be made for non-residential installations.
      (4)   When water services have been stopped because of a violation of
this chapter, the city shall collect the fee established pursuant to §
51.51 before service is recommenced.
      (5)   If a person desires to connect to the system and service a parcel
that has not been assessed for the cost of water main and lateral construction,
then before a permit is granted, the city shall collect an amount from the
applicant that is established pursuant to §
51.51.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.34 LOCATION OF CURB STOP BOX.
   Curb stop boxes will be installed on the right-of-way line or easement
limits at a location as determined by the City Engineer to be best suitable to
the property and shall be left in a vertical position when backfilling is
completed. Curb stop boxes will be installed at an approximate depth of 7.5
feet below the finished ground elevation and the top of the curb stop box shall
be adjusted to be flush with the finished ground elevation. Curb stop boxes
must be firmly supported by a masonry block. No person shall erect any fence or
plant any tree or other landscaping that would obstruct, or place a structure
on, park a motor vehicle on, or otherwise obstruct the use of the curb stop
box, or cause damage to the same.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.35 WATER METERS.
   (A)   Generally. Except for extinguishment of fires, no person, unless
otherwise authorized by the City Council or Public Utilities Department, shall
use water from the water system or permit water to be drawn therefrom unless
the same be metered by passing through a meter supplied or approved by the
city. No person not authorized by the City Council or Utilities Superintendent
shall connect, disconnect, take apart, or in any manner change or cause to be
changed or interfere with any meter or the action thereof, or break any meter
or valve seal.
      (1)   A charge established pursuant to §
51.51 shall be paid by customers to the city for water meters including
installations and check valves and payment for same shall be made at the time
of water service application. This payment shall be made only once, subject to
the following.
      (2)   Where a consumer has need for a larger line in addition to his or
her domestic line, as in the case of a commercial consumer who needs a one-inch
line for normal use and a six-inch or larger line for a fire sprinkler system,
he or she will be permitted to run one line into the premises and "Y" off into
two lines at the building. When this is done, the meter will be attached to the
small or domestic line and a check valve as well as one-inch detection meter
shall be put on the large line.
      (3)   The city shall maintain and repair all meters when rendered
unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall replace them if
necessary. When replacement, repair, or adjustment of any meter is rendered by
the act, neglect (including damage from freezing or hot water backup) or
carelessness of the owner or occupant of the premises, any expense caused the
city thereby shall be charged against and collected from the water consumer.
      (4)   A consumer may, by written request, have his or her meter tested by
depositing the amount established pursuant to §
51.51. In case a test should show an error of over 5% of the water consumed, a
correctly registering meter will be installed, and the bill will be adjusted
accordingly and the testing deposit refunded. This adjustment shall not extend
back more than one billing period from the date of the written request.
      (5)   All water meters and remote readers shall be and remain the
property of the city.
      (6)   Authorized city employees shall have free access at reasonable
hours of the day to all parts of every building and premises connected with the
water system for reading of meters and inspections.
      (7)   It shall be the responsibility of the consumer to notify the city
to request a final reading at the time of the customer's billing change.
   (B)   Water meter setting. All water meters hereafter installed shall be in
accordance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code and any standards established by
resolution of the City Council.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.50 WATER UNIT.
   A water unit (hereinafter called unit) shall be one residential equivalent
connection based on usage of 100,000 gallons per year or portion thereof.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 51.51 RATES, FEES AND CHARGES GENERALLY.
   A schedule of water rates, fees and charges for permits or services can be
found in §
36.01 of this code, as that section may be amended from time to time. Any rates
or charges not specifically listed in §
36.01 are on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 51.52 WATER SERVICE BILLING; CHANGE OF ADDRESS.
   All bills and notices shall be mailed or delivered to the address where
service is provided. If non-resident owners or agents desire personal notice
sent to a different address, they shall submit a request, in writing, to the
City Treasurer. Any change or error in address shall be promptly reported to
the City Treasurer.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 51.53 WATER RATES.
   (A)   The rate due and payable by each user within the city for water taken
from the water system shall be established pursuant to §
51.51.
   (B)   In case the meter is found to have stopped, or to be operating in a
faulty manner, the amount of water used will be estimated in accordance with
the amount used previously in comparable periods of the year.
   (C)   Rates due and payable by each water user located beyond the
territorial boundaries of the city shall be determined by special contract.
   (D)   The minimum rates established pursuant to §
51.51 shall begin to accrue after connection of the service pipe with the curb
stop box.
   (E)   A meter shall be installed on the water valve in the house along with
a remote register regardless of whether inside piping is connected.
   (F)   In the event a water customer elects to discontinue the use of the
municipal water, the base charge shall continue until the date service is
disconnected at the curb box.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.54 PAYMENT OF CHARGES; LATE PAYMENT; COLLECTION.
   (A)   Any prepayment or overpayment of charges may be retained by the city
and applied on subsequent bi-monthly charges.
   (B)   Bills for water charges shall be rendered on a bi-monthly basis
succeeding the period for which the service was rendered and shall be due 25
days from the date of rendering. Any bill not paid in full 25 days after the
due date will be considered delinquent. At that time, the city shall notify the
delinquent owner/occupant in writing regarding the delinquent bill and
subsequent penalty. The penalty shall be computed at 10% of the original bill.
   (C)   The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
their premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only
upon the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefore to the
city.
   (D)   For accounts on which a NSF check is received, the City Treasurer
shall notify the customer immediately, by mail. Payment by cash, certified
check or money order shall be required within five days of the notice. A
service charge, as set forth in the fee schedule, will be charged for each NSF
check returned to the city.
   (E)   (1)   Each and every water service charge is made a lien upon the lot
or premises served, and all charges which are, on November 30 of each year,
past due and delinquent shall be certified to the County Auditor by December 1,
for collection as an assessment on the following year's property taxes. The
amount certified to the County Auditor will also include a $75 administrative
fee and a 10% interest charge.
      (2)   As an alternative to levying a lien, the city may, at its
discretion, file suit in a civil action to collect amounts as are delinquent
and due against the occupant, owner or user of the real estate, and shall
collect as well all attorney's fees incurred by the city in filing the civil
action. Attorney's fees shall be fixed by order of the court.
      (3)   In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and chargeable
to recording notices of the lien or filing a civil action, the owner or user of
the real estate being serviced shall be liable for interest upon all unpaid
balances at the rate of 10% per annum.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.70 SUPERVISION BY UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT; LICENSING.
   (A)   All piping connections from the curb stop box to house supply piping
shall be made under the supervision of a licensed plumber subject to inspection
by the Utilities Superintendent. The piping connection made to the curb stop
box on the house side shall be inspected by the Utilities Superintendent. The
water meter installation shall be inspected, tested and the meter sealed by the
Utilities Superintendent.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall engage in the business of
altering, repairing, installing or constructing municipal water connections
within the city without first obtaining a license to carry on the occupation
from the city. A master plumber licensed by the state under the provisions of
M.S. § 326.40, as it may be amended from time to time, is exempt from the
provisions of this section. A person in the ditch installing the pipe who has a
card showing that they have completed a program of training that incorporates
the Plumbing Code installation requirements, issued by either the Associated
Builders and Contractors, Laborers-Employers Cooperation Educational Trust, or
Minnesota Utility Contractors Association, is not subject to the licensing
requirements of this section.
      (1)   The applicant shall file with the City Clerk evidence of public
liability insurance, including products liability insurance with limits of at
least $50,000 per person and $100,000 per occurrence and property damage
insurance with limits of at least $10,000. Evidence of insurance required
pursuant to M.S. § 326.40, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time,
shall satisfy this requirement.
      (2)   The applicant shall file with the City Clerk a surety bond
guaranteeing the conformance and compliance of work with this chapter. The bond
shall be in the amount of $2,000. The city shall hold the bond for one year
following the license period. Failure to comply with provisions and
requirements of this chapter shall result in forfeiture of the bond. The
applicant may comply with the requirements of M.S. § 326.40, Subd. 2, as it may
be amended from time to time in lieu of these requirements.
      (3)   Applications for licenses shall be filed with the City Clerk and
shall be reviewed and subject to approval of the city.
      (4)   Any installation, construction, alteration of a water connection by
a license in violation of any provision of this chapter or refusal on the part
of a licensee to correct the defective work shall be cause for revocation of or
refusal to renew a license. This license may be revoked or refused for renewal
by the city at any time for cause which shall be documented in writing.
   (C)   All licenses required in this section shall be renewable annually.
Applications for licenses shall be made annually on a form furnished by the
City Clerk. Licenses shall be in effect from January 1 to December 31 of the
same year. The license fee shall be established pursuant to §
51.51.
   (D)   Before any license issued under the provisions of this section may be
revoked or its renewal refused, the licensee shall be given a hearing by the
City Council to show cause why the license should not be revoked or refused.
Notice of the time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be in writing.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 51.71 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Utilities Superintendent and/or other duly authorized employees of the
city, upon proper identification, are authorized, with the permission of the
licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property within the
city, to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspections, observation
and testing in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. If the licensee,
owner, resident or other person in control of property within the city does not
permit the entrance to the property, the city shall obtain an administrative
search warrant as provided for in §
10.20 before entering the property, except in emergency situations.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 51.72 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of non- payment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. All bills shall contain, in addition
to the title, address, room number, and telephone number of the official in
charge of billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the
effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a past due
notice will be mailed containing notice that if the bill is not paid within
eight days of the mailing of the past due notice, service will be discontinued
for non-payment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she must be represented in
person and/or by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the City
Council. The Council shall be authorized to order that the customer's service
not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination
of the customer's complaint.
   (B)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (C)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for non- payment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service, then due, have been paid along with a turn-on charge as
established in the fee schedule.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 51.73 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES TO TURN WATER ON AND OFF.
   No person, except an authorized city or contracted employee, shall turn on
or off any water supply at the curb stop box.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.74 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE, LOSS OR DAMAGE.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall become
liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by the city by
reason of the violation.
(Am. Ord. 2014-06, passed 11-10-2014)
CHAPTER 52: [RESERVED]
 
CHAPTER 53: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Control of sewers; administration of chapter
   
53.003   Building sewers; general requirements
   
53.004   Tampering with wastewater facilities
   
53.005   Cost of repairing or restoring sewers
General Regulations
   
53.015   Deposits of unsanitary manner prohibited
   
53.016   Discharge of wastewater or other polluted waters
   
53.017   Restrictions on wastewater disposal facilities
   
53.018   Installation of service connection to public sewer
Building Sewers and Connections
   
53.055   Restrictions on new connections
   
53.056   Building sewer permits
   
53.057   Costs and expenses
   
53.058   Separate building sewers required
   
53.059   Old building sewers; restrictions on use
   
53.060   Conformance to State Building and Plumbing Code requirements
   
53.061   Elevation below basement floor
   
53.062   Surface runoff or groundwater connections prohibited
   
53.063   Excavations
   
53.064   Licenses
Use of Public Services
   
53.080   Discharges of unpolluted water
   
53.081   Discharges of waters or wastes
   
53.082   Limited discharges
   
53.083   Discharges hazardous to life or constitute public nuisances
   
53.084   Increasing use of process water
   
53.085   Pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities
   
53.086   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
53.087   Industrial wastes; installations
   
53.088   Industrial wastes; requirements
   
53.089   Measurements, tests and analyses of waters and wastes
   
53.090   Protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials
   
53.091   Permitting substance or matter to flow or pass into public sewers
   
53.092   Repairing service connection
   
53.093   Catch basin or waste traps required for motor vehicle washing or
servicing facilities
   
53.094   Special agreement and arrangement
User Rate Schedule for Charges
   
53.110   Charges generally
   
53.111   Purpose
   
53.112   Definitions
   
53.113   Establishment of a sewer service charge system
   
53.114   Determination of sewer service charges
   
53.115   Sewer service fund
   
53.116   Administration
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
53.130   Authorized employees permitted to enter all properties
   
53.131   Authorized employees obtaining information for industrial processes
   
53.132   Authorized employees to observe safety rules
   
53.133   Authorized employees permitted to enter all property with easements
Private Wastewater Disposal (SSTS)
   
53.200   Public sewer not available
   
53.201   Direct connection required
   
53.202   Application of subchapter
   
53.203   Code adopted
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, being 33 USC 1251 et seq., as amended.
   ASTM. American Society for Testing Materials.
   AUTHORITY. This city or its representative thereof.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD5). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
five days at 20°C, expressed in terms of milligrams per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning three
feet outside the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also referred to as a house connection or service
connection.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a future time.
The term CITY when used herein may also be used to refer to the City Council
and its authorized representative.
   CONTROL MANHOLE. A structure specially constructed for the purpose of
measuring flow and sampling of wastes.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and serving of food.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Gaseous, liquid and solid wastes resulting from industrial
or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the development,
recovery and processing of natural resources, as distinct from residential or
domestic strength wastes.
   INDUSTRY. Any non-governmental or non-residential user of a publicly owned
treatment works which is identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, which is categorized in Divisions A, B, D, E and I.
   INFILTRATION. Water entering the sewage system (including building drains
and pipes) from the ground through means as defective pipes, pipe joints,
connections and manhole walls.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). The total quantity of water from both
infiltration and inflow.
   INFLOW. Water other than wastewater that enters a sewer system (including
building drains) from sources such as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar
drains, yard and area drains, foundation drains, drains from springs and swampy
areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm sewers, catch basins,
surface runoff, street wash waters or drainage.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the city's wastewater disposal
system processes or operations which causes or significantly contributes to a
violation of any requirement of the city's NPDES or SDS permit. The term
includes sewage sludge use or disposal by the city in accordance with published
regulations providing guidelines under Section 405 of the Act (33 USC 1345) or
any regulations developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 USC 6901
et seq.), the Clean Air Act (42 USC 7401 et seq.), the Toxic Substances Control
Act (15 USC 2601 et seq.), or more stringent state criteria applicable to the
method of disposal or use employed by the city.
   MAY. The term is permissive.
   MPCA. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly-
owned wastewater treatment facilities which are determined to be not
susceptible to treatment by those treatment facilities or would interfere with
the operation of those treatment facilities, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the
Act (33 USC 1317(b)).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT.  A permit
issued by the MPCA, setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge into navigable waters of the United States pursuant to Sections 402
and 405 of the Act (33 USC 1342 and 33 USC 1345).
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which overflow into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface
water or ground water.
   NON-CONTACT COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or during which the only pollutant
added is heat.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastewater that is primarily introduced by
residential users with a BOD5 concentration not greater than 287 mg/l and a
suspended solids (TSS) concentration not greater than 287 mg/l.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
terms of grams per liter of solution.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater from industrial sources prior to
the introduction of the waste effluent into a publicly-owned treatment works.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to a degree that all particles will
be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers with no particle greater than two-inch (1.27 cm) in any dimension.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is wastewater.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   COLLECTION SEWER. A sewer whose primary purpose is to collect
wastewaters from individual point source discharges and connections.
      (2)   INTERCEPTOR SEWER.  A sewer whose primary purpose is to transport
wastewater from collection sewers to a treatment facility.
      (3)   PRIVATE SEWER.  A sewer which is not owned and maintained by a
public authority.
      (4)   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer owned, maintained and controlled by a public
authority.
      (5)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters
which are not admitted intentionally.
      (6)   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A drain or sewer intended to carry
storm waters, surface runoff, ground water, subsurface water, street wash
water, drainage and unpolluted water from any source.
   SHALL. The term is mandatory.
   SLUG. Intermittent release or discharge of wastewater or industrial wastes.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. Any permit (including any terms,
conditions and requirements thereof) issued by the MPCA pursuant to M.S. §
115.07, as it may be amended from time to time for a disposal system as defined
by M.S. § 115.01(8), as it may be amended from time to time.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended
matter that either floats on the surface of, or is in suspension in water,
wastewater or other liquids, and is removable by laboratory filtering as
prescribed in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
latest edition, and referred to as non-filterable residue.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism will cause
adverse affects as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of
the Act (33 USC 1317(a)).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect, or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards, and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities.
   USER. Any person who discharges or causes or permits the discharge of
wastewater into the city's wastewater disposal system.
   UTILITIES SUPERINTENDENT. The person appointed by the City Council to
supervise the sewer and water systems of the city.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community and referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from that treatment.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.002 CONTROL OF SEWERS; ADMINISTRATION OF CHAPTER.
   The Utilities Superintendent, or other official designated by the City
Council shall have control and general supervision of all public sewers and
service connections in the city, and shall be responsible for administering the
provisions of this chapter to the end that a proper and efficient public sewer
is maintained.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.003 BUILDING SEWERS; GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Building sewer construction shall meet the pertinent requirements of the
Minnesota State Building Code, which is those chapters of Minnesota Rules
referenced in Minn. Rules, Part 1300.2400, Subpart 6, as they maybe amended
from time to time, and the Minnesota Plumbing Code, Minn. Rules, Ch. 4715, as
it maybe amended from time to time. The applicant shall notify the City Clerk
when the building sewer and connection is ready for inspection. The connection
shall be made under the supervision of the Building Official or the Building
Official's representative, if the city has adopted the State Building Code. If
the city has not adopted the State Building Code, the Utilities Superintendent
shall perform the inspection. If the city does not have a Utilities
Superintendent, an installer licensed under § 53.064 shall certify that the
building sewer and connection comply with the State Building Code. No backfill
shall be placed until the work has been inspected and approved, or until the
certification has been received.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.004 TAMPERING WITH WASTEWATER FACILITIES.
   No person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is part of the wastewater facilities. Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a
misdemeanor.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.005 COST OF REPAIRING OR RESTORING SEWERS.
   In addition to any penalties that maybe imposed for violation of any
provision of this chapter, the city may assess against any person the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers or associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes by that person, and may collect the
assessment as an additional charge for the use of the public sewer system or in
any other manner deemed appropriate by the city.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 53.015 DEPOSITS OF UNSANITARY MANNER PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the city's jurisdiction, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or objectionable waste.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.016 DISCHARGE OF WASTEWATER OR OTHER POLLUTED WATERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet any wastewater or
other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in
accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter and the city's NPDES/SDS
permit.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.017 RESTRICTIONS ON WASTEWATER DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.018 INSTALLATION OF SERVICE CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes from which wastewater is discharged,
and which is situated within the city and adjacent to any street, alley or
right-of-way in which there is now located, or may in the future be located, a
public sanitary sewer of the city shall be required at the owner's expense to
install a suitable service connection to the public sewer in accordance with
provisions of this code within 365 days of the date the public sewer is
operational; provided, the public sewer is within 100 feet of the boundary line
of the property of the structure generating the wastewater. All future
buildings constructed on property adjacent to the public sewer shall be
required to immediately connect to the public sewer. If sewer connections are
not made pursuant to this section, an official ten-day notice shall be served
instructing the affected property owner to make the connection.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.055 RESTRICTIONS ON NEW CONNECTIONS.
   Any new connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited unless
sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities, including but
not limited to capacity for flow, BOD5 and suspended solids, as determined by
the Utilities Superintendent.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.056 BUILDING SEWER PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections
with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (B)   Applications. Applications for permits shall be made by the owner or
authorized agent and the party employed to do the work, and shall state the
location, name of owner, street number of the building to be connected and how
occupied. No person shall extend any private building drain beyond the limits
of the building or property for which the service connection permit has been
given.
   (C)   Classes. There shall be two classes of building sewer permits: one for
residential and commercial service, and one for service to establishments
producing industrial wastes. In either case, the application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications or any other information considered
pertinent in the judgement of the city. The industry, as a condition of permit
authorization, must provide information describing its wastewater constituents,
characteristics and type of activity.
   (D)   Inspection and connection. The applicant for the building sewer permit
shall notify the city when the building sewer is ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection and inspection shall be made
under the supervision of the Utilities Superintendent or authorized
representative thereof.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.057 COSTS AND EXPENSES.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the city
from any loss or damage that may be directly or indirectly occasioned by the
installation of the building sewer.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.058 SEPARATE BUILDING SEWERS REQUIRED.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building
sewer from the front building maybe extended to the rear building and the whole
considered one building sewer. The city does not and will not assume any
obligation or responsibility for damage caused by or resulting from any
connection.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.059 OLD BUILDING SEWERS; RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found, on examination and test by the Utilities Superintendent or his
or her representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.060 CONFORMANCE TO STATE BUILDING AND PLUMBING CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The size, slopes, alignment, materials of construction of building
sewers and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling of the trench, shall all conform to the requirements
of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other applicable rules and
regulations of the city.
   (B)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall
conform to the requirements of the State Building and Plumbing Code or other
applicable rules and regulations of the city. All connections shall be made
gastight and watertight, and verified by proper testing to prevent the
inclusion of infiltration/inflow. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures
and materials must be approved by the city prior to installation.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.061 ELEVATION BELOW BASEMENT FLOOR.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by the building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.062 SURFACE RUNOFF OR GROUNDWATER CONNECTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, sump pumps, foundation
drains, areaway drains or other sources of surface runoff or groundwater to a
building sewer or indirectly to the wastewater disposal system.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.063 EXCAVATIONS.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.064 LICENSES.
   (A)   Required. No person shall make a service connection with any public
sewer unless regularly licensed under this chapter to perform the work, and no
permit shall be granted to any person except a regularly licensed person. A
person licensed as a plumber by the State of Minnesota, or a person in the
ditch installing the pipe who has a card showing that they have completed a
program of training that incorporates the Plumbing Code installation
requirements, issued by either the Associated Builders and Contractors,
Laborers-Employers Cooperation Educational Trust, or Minnesota Utility
Contractors Association, is not subject to the licensing requirements of this
section.
   (B)   Application. Any person desiring a license to make a service
connection with public sewers shall apply in writing to the City Council with
satisfactory evidence that the applicant or employer is trained or skilled in
the business and qualified to receive a license. All applications shall be
referred to the Utilities Superintendent for recommendations to the Council. If
approved by the Council, the license shall be issued by the City Clerk upon the
filing of a bond as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Issuance. No license shall be issued to any person until a policy of
insurance to the city, approved by the Council, is filed with the City Clerk
conditioned that the licensee will indemnify and save harmless the city from
all suits, accidents and damage that may arise by reason of any opening in any
street, alley or public ground made by the licensee or by those in the
licensee's employment for any purpose whatever, and that the licensee will
replace and restore the street and alley over that opening to the condition
existing prior to installation, adequately guard with barricades and lights,
and will keep and maintain the same to the satisfaction of the Utilities
Superintendent, and shall conform in all respects to any rules and regulations
of the Council relative thereto, and pay all fines that may be imposed on the
licensee by law.
   (D)   Fee. The license fee for making service connections shall be as
established by the City Council and adopted pursuant to §
36.01 of this code, as that section may be amended from time to time. All
licenses shall expire on December 31 of the license year unless the license is
suspended or revoked by the Council for cause.
   (E)   Suspension or revocation. The Council may suspend or revoke any
license issued under this subchapter for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Giving false information in connection with the application for a
license;
      (2)   Incompetence of the licensee; or
      (3)   Willful violation of any provisions of this chapter or any rule or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connections.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
USE OF PUBLIC SERVICES
§ 53.080 DISCHARGES OF UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any water such as
stormwater, ground water, roof runoff, surface drainage or non-contact cooling
water to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to
those sewers as are specifically designed as storm sewers or to a natural
outlet approved by the city and other regulatory agencies. Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged to a storm sewer or
natural outlet on approval of the city and upon approval and the issuance of a
discharge permit by the MPCA.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.081 DISCHARGES OF WATERS OR WASTES.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any of the following
described waters or wastes to any public sewers:
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature or
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
wastewater disposal system or to the operation of the system. Prohibited
materials include but are not limited to gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene,
toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides and sulfides.
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which will cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as but not limited to grease, garbage with particles greater
than two-inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones,
hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders,
sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastic, asphalt
residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubricating oil, mud
or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment and personnel of the wastewater disposal system.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to inhibit or disrupt
any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, or
create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the wastewater disposal
system. A toxic pollutant shall include but not be limited to any pollutant
identified pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act (33 USC 1317(a)).
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.082 LIMITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   The following described substances, materials, water or wastes shall
be limited in discharges to municipal systems to concentrations or quantities
which will not harm either sewers, the wastewater treatment works, treatment
process or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the receiving stream
and soil, vegetation and ground water, or will not otherwise endanger lives,
limb, public property, or constitute a nuisance. The Utilities Superintendent
may set limitations lower than limitations established in the regulations below
if, in his or her opinion, the more severe limitations are necessary to meet
the above objectives. In forming his or her opinion as to the acceptability of
wastes, the Utilities Superintendent will give consideration to factors as the
quantity of subject waste in reaction to flows and velocities in the sewers,
materials of construction of the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment
process, the city's NPDES/SDS permit, capacity of the sewage treatment plant,
degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment plant, and other
pertinent factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewaters discharged to the sanitary sewer which shall not be
violated without approval of the Utilities Superintendent are as follows.
      (1)   Any wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C), or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the wastewater treatment plant to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C), or
having heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the wastewater
treatment works resulting in interference therein.
      (2)   Any wastewater containing fats, wax, grease or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and
65.6°C); and any wastewater containing oil and grease concentrations of mineral
origin of greater than 100 mg/l, whether emulsified or not.
      (3)   Any quantities of flow, concentrations, or both which constitute a
SLUG as defined in §
53.001 .
      (4)   Any garbage not properly shredded, as defined in §
53.001 of this chapter. Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers
from homes, hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering
establishments or similar places where garbage originates from the preparation
of food on the premises or when served by caterers.
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are capable of creating a public
nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair.
      (6)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process such as but not limited to dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
      (7)   Non-contact cooling water or unpolluted storm, drainage or ground
water.
      (8)   Wastewater containing inert suspended-solids, such as, but not
limited to, fullers earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or of dissolved
solids, such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate, in
quantities that would cause disruption with the wastewater disposal system.
      (9)   Any radioactive wastes or isotopes of half-life or concentration as
may exceed limits established by the Utilities Superintendent in compliance
with applicable state or federal regulations.
      (10)   Any waters or wastes containing the following substances to the
degree that any material received in the composite wastewater at the wastewater
treatment works is detrimental to treatment process, adversely impacts land
application, adversely effects receiving waters, or is in violation of
standards pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act (33 USC 1317(b)): Arsenic,
Cadmium, Copper, Cyanide, Lead, Mercury, Nickel, Silver, total Chromium, Zinc
and Phenolic compounds which cannot be removed by the city's wastewater
treatment system.
      (11)   Any wastewater which creates conditions at or near the wastewater
disposal system which violates any statute, rule, regulation or ordinance of
any regulatory agency, or state or federal regulatory body.
      (12)   Any waters or wastes containing BOD5 or suspended solids of
character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle
the materials at the wastewater treatment works, except as may be permitted by
specific written agreement subject to the provisions of §
53.094.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.083 DISCHARGES HAZARDOUS TO LIFE OR CONSTITUTE PUBLIC NUISANCES.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers which contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
53.082, or which in the judgement of the Utilities Superintendent may have a
deleterious effect upon the wastewater treatment facilities, processes, or
equipment, receiving waters or soil, vegetation, and ground water, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city
may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to Section 307(b) of the Act (33 USC 1317(b)) and
all amendments thereof;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added costs of handling, treating and
disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer service charges.
   (B)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste flows,
the design, installation and maintenance of the facilities and equipment shall
be made at the owner's expense and shall be subject to the review and approval
of the city pursuant to the requirements of the MPCA.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.084 INCREASING USE OF PROCESS WATER.
   No user shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner, attempt
to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate
treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in §§
53.081 and
53.082, or contained in the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any
state requirements.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.085 PRETREATMENT OR FLOW-EQUALIZING FACILITIES.
   Where pretreatment or flow-equalizing facilities are provided or required
for any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory
and effective operation at the expense of the owner.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.086 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Utilities Superintendent, they are necessary for the proper handling of
liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive amounts, as specified in
§
53.082(B)(2), any flammable wastes as specified in §
53.081(A), sand or other harmful ingredients; except that interceptors shall
not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors
shall be of the type to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by
appropriate means, and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the Utilities Superintendent. Any removal and
hauling of the collecting materials not performed by the owner's personnel must
be performed by a currently licensed waste disposal firm.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.087 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; INSTALLATIONS.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a building
sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable structure, or control
manhole, with necessary meters and other appurtenances in the building sewer to
facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of wastes. The structure
shall be accessible and safely located, and shall be constructed in accordance
with plans approved by the city. The structure shall be installed by the owner
at his or her expense and shall be maintained by the owner to be safe and
accessible at all times.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.088 INDUSTRIAL WASTES; REQUIREMENTS.
   The owner of any property serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial
wastes may, at the discretion of the city, be required to provide laboratory
measurements, tests or analyses of waters or wastes to illustrate compliance
with this chapter and any special condition for discharge established by the
city or regulatory agencies having jurisdiction over the discharge. The number,
type and frequency of sampling and laboratory analyses to be performed by the
owner shall be as stipulated by the city. The industry must supply a complete
analysis of the constituents of the wastewater discharge to assure that
compliance with federal, state and local standards are being met. The owner
shall report the results of measurements and laboratory analyses to the city at
times and in the manner as prescribed by the city. The owner shall bear the
expense of all measurements, analyses and reporting required by the city. At
those times as deemed necessary, the city reserves the right to take
measurements and supplies for analysis by an independent laboratory.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.089 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES OF WATERS AND WASTES.
   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of waters and
wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public Health Association.
Sampling methods, location, times, duration and frequencies are to be
determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the Utilities
Superintendent.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.090 PROTECTION FROM ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGE OF PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   Where required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a sanitary
sewer shall provide protection from an accidental discharge of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Where necessary,
facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials shall be
provided and maintained at the owner's expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the Utilities Superintendent for review and approval prior to
construction of the facility. Review and approval of the plans and operating
procedures shall not relieve any user from the responsibility to modify the
user's facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this chapter. Users
shall notify the Utilities Superintendent immediately upon having a slug or
accidental discharge of substances of wastewater in violation of this chapter
to enable countermeasures to be taken by the Utilities Superintendent to
minimize damage to the wastewater treatment works. The notification will not
relieve any user of any liability for any expense, loss or damage to the
wastewater treatment system or treatment process, or for any fines imposed on
the city on account thereof under any state and federal law. Employers shall
ensure that all employees who may cause or discover a discharge are advised of
the emergency notification procedure.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.091 PERMITTING SUBSTANCE OR MATTER TO FLOW OR PASS INTO PUBLIC SEWERS.
   No person having charge of any building or other premises which drains into
the public sewer shall permit any substance or matter which may form a deposit
or obstruction to flow or pass into the public sewer. Within 30 days after
receipt of written notice from the city, the owner shall install a suitable and
sufficient catch basin or waste trap, or if one already exists, shall clean
out, repair or alter the same, and perform other work as the Utilities
Superintendent may deem necessary. Upon the owner's refusal or neglect to
install a catch basin or waste trap or to clean out, repair, or alter the same
after the period of 30 days, the Utilities Superintendent may cause the work to
be completed at the expense of the owner or representative thereof.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.092 REPAIRING SERVICE CONNECTION.
   Whenever any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, broken or out
of order, or detrimental to the use of the public sewer, or unfit for the
purpose of drainage, the owner shall repair or cause the work to be done, as
the Utilities Superintendent may direct. Each day after 30 days that a person
neglects or fails to so act shall constitute a separate violation of this
section, and the Utilities Superintendent may then cause the work to be done,
and recover from the owner or agent the expense thereof by an action in the
name of the city.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.093 CATCH BASIN OR WASTE TRAPS REQUIRED FOR MOTOR VEHICLE WASHING OR
SERVICING FACILITIES.
   The owner or operator of any motor vehicle washing or servicing facility
shall provide and maintain in serviceable condition at all times a catch basin
or waste trap in the building drain system to prevent grease, oil, dirt or any
mineral deposit from entering the public sewer system.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.094 SPECIAL AGREEMENT AND ARRANGEMENT.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any industrial
concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be
accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor by the
industrial concern; provided, that National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
and the city's NPDES/SDS Permit limitations are not violated.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
USER RATE SCHEDULE FOR CHARGES
§ 53.110 CHARGES GENERALLY.
   Each user of sewer service shall pay the charges applicable to the type of
service, and in accordance with the provisions set forth in this subchapter.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.111 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for sewer service charges to
recover costs associated with operation, maintenance and replacement to ensure
effective functioning of the city's wastewater treatment system, and local
capital costs incurred in the construction of the city's wastewater treatment
system.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.112 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATION. Those fixed costs attributable to administration of the
wastewater treatment works such as billing and associated bookkeeping and
accounting costs.
   CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the city as presently
established or as amended by ordinance or other legal actions at a future time.
When used herein the term CITY may also refer to the City Council or its
authorized representative.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.  A charge levied on users of wastewater treatment
facilities for the cost of repaying money bonded to construct the facilities.
   INCOMPATIBLE WASTE. Waste that either singly or by interaction with other
wastes interferes with any waste treatment process, constitutes a hazard to
humans or animals, creates a public nuisance or creates any hazard in the
receiving waters of the wastewater treatment works.
   INDUSTRIAL USERS or INDUSTRIES.
      (1)   (a)   Entities that discharge into a publicly owned wastewater
treatment works liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in
industrial or manufacturing processes, or from the development of any natural
resources. These are identified in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, latest edition, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemental under one of the following divisions:
            Division A.   Agriculture, forestry and fishing
            Division B.   Mining
            Division D.   Manufacturing
            Division E.   Transportation, communications, electric, gas, and
sanitary sewers
            Division I.   Services
         (b)   For the purpose of this definition, domestic waste shall be
considered to have the following characteristics: BOD5 - less than 287 mg/l;
suspended solids - less than 287 mg/l.
      (2)   Any non-governmental user of a publicly owned treatment works which
discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic pollutants or
poisonous solids, liquids or gases in sufficient quantity either singly or by
interaction with other wastes to contaminate the sludge of any municipal
systems, or to injure or to interfere with any sewage treatment process, or
which constitutes a hazard to humans or animals, creates a public nuisance, or
creates any hazard in or has an adverse effect on the waters receiving any
discharge from the treatment works.
   MAY. The term is permissive.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. Activities required to provide for the dependable
and economical functioning of the treatment works, throughout the design or
useful life, whichever is longer of the treatment works, and at the level of
performance for which the treatment works were constructed. The term includes
replacement.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS. Expenditures for operation and maintenance,
including replacement.
   REPLACEMENT. Obtaining and installing of equipment, accessories or
appurtenances which are necessary during the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the treatment works to maintain the capacity and
performance for which the works were designed and constructed.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Expenditures for replacement.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer intended to carry only liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions, together with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface
waters which are not admitted intentionally.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all charges, including charges for
operation, maintenance, replacement, debt service, and other sewer related
charges that are billed periodically to users of the city's wastewater
treatment facilities.
   SEWER SERVICE FUND. A fund into which income from sewer service charges is
deposited along with other income, including taxes intended to retire debt
incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater treatment. Expenditure of
the SEWER SERVICE FUND will be for operation, maintenance and replacement costs
and to retire debt incurred through capital expenditure for wastewater
treatment.
   SHALL. The term is mandatory.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. The concentration of any pollutant or combination of
pollutants as defined in standards issued pursuant to Section 307(a) of the Act
(33 USC 1317(a)), which upon exposure to or assimilation into any organism,
will cause adverse effects.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on a user of a treatment works for the user's
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   USERS. Those residential, commercial, governmental, institutional and
industrial establishments which are connected to the public sewer collection
system.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community, also referred to as sewage. From
the standpoint of source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-
carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and
institutions together with any ground water, surface water and storm water that
may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of any
devices, facilities, structures, equipment or processes owned or used by the
city for the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling and
reclamation of municipal sewage, domestic sewage or industrial wastewater, or
structures necessary to recycle or reuse water including interceptor sewers,
outfall sewers, collection sewers, pumping, power and other equipment and their
appurtenances; extensions, improvements, remodeling, additions and alterations
thereof; elements essential to provide a reliable recycled water supply such as
standby treatment units and clear well facilities; and any works including land
which is an integral part of the treatment process or is used for ultimate
disposal of residues resulting from the treatment.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.113 ESTABLISHMENT OF A SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a sewer service charge system whereby all
revenue collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities will be
used to affect all expenditures incurred for annual operation, maintenance and
replacement and for debt service on capital expenditure incurred in
constructing the wastewater treatment works.
   (B)   Each user shall pay its proportionate share of operation, maintenance,
and replacement costs of the treatment works, based on the users proportionate
contribution to the total wastewater loading from all users.
   (C)   Each user shall pay debt service charges to retire local capital costs
as determined by the City Council.
   (D)   Sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be determined and fixed in a sewer service charge system
developed according to the provisions of this subchapter. The sewer service
charge system shall be the system enacted prior to the adoption of this code.
The city fee schedule adopted pursuant to §
36.01 of this code may be amended from time to time to include subsequent
changes in sewer service rates and charges.
   (E)   Revenues collected for sewer service shall be kept in a separate fund
known as the Sewer Fund. Income from revenues collected will be expended to
off-set the cost of operation, maintenance and equipment replacement for the
facility and to retire the debt for capital expenditure.
   (F)   Sewer service charges and the sewer service fund will be administrated
in accordance with the provisions of §
53.116.
   (G)   A connection fee as adopted pursuant to §
36.01 of this code, as that section may be amended from time to time, shall be
charged to each user connecting a new service to the sanitary sewer system. The
connection fee shall be due and payable prior to the connection of the new
service.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.114 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
    The sewer service rates and charges to users of the wastewater treatment
facility shall be as established by ordinance or resolution, and adopted
pursuant to §
36.01, as that section maybe amended from time to time.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.115 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a Sewer Fund as an income fund to receive
all revenues generated by the sewer service charge system, and all other income
dedicated to the operation, maintenance, replacement and construction of the
wastewater treatment works, including taxes, special charges, fees and
assessments intended to retire construction debt. The city also establishes the
following accounts as income and expenditure accounts within the sewer service
fund:
      (1)   Operation and Maintenance Account;
      (2)   Equipment Replacement Account; and
      (3)   Debt Retirement Account.
   (B)   All revenue generated by the sewer service charge system, and all
other income pertinent to the treatment system, including taxes and special
assessments dedicated to retire construction debt, shall be held by the City
Treasurer separate and apart from all other funds of the city. Funds received
by the sewer fund shall be transferred to the Operation and Maintenance
Account, the Equipment Replacement Account, and the Debt Retirement Account in
accordance with state and federal regulations and the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient to
ensure adequate replacement throughout the design life or useful life,
whichever is longer, of the wastewater facility shall be held separate and
apart in the Equipment Replacement Account and dedicated to affecting
replacement costs. Interest income generated by the Equipment Replacement
Account shall remain in the Equipment Replacement Account.
   (D)   Revenue generated by the sewer service charge system sufficient for
operation and maintenance shall be held separate and apart in the Operation and
Maintenance Account.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.116 ADMINISTRATION.
   The sewer service charge system and sewer fund shall be administrated
according to the following provisions:
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall maintain a proper system of accounts suitable
for determining the operation and maintenance, equipment replacement and debt
retirement costs of the treatment works, and shall furnish the City Council
with a report of those costs annually in December. The City Council shall
annually determine whether or not sufficient revenue is being generated for the
effective operation, maintenance, replacement and management of the treatment
works, and whether sufficient revenue is being generated for debt retirement.
The Council will also determine whether the user charges are distributed
proportionately to each user in accordance with § 53.113(B). The city shall
thereafter, but not later than the end of the year, reassess and as necessary
revise the sewer service charge system then in use to ensure the
proportionality of the user charges and to ensure the sufficiency of funds to
maintain the capacity and performance to which the facilities were constructed,
and to retire the construction debt.
   (B)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, each user will be
notified annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the
sewer service charge attributable to operation, maintenance and replacement.
   (C)   In accordance with federal and state requirements, the City Treasurer
shall be responsible for maintaining all records necessary to document
compliance with the sewer service charge system adopted.
   (D)   Bills for sewer service charges shall be rendered on a bi-monthly
basis succeeding the period for which the service was rendered and shall be due
25 days from the date of rendering. Any bill not paid in full 25 days after the
due date will be considered delinquent. At that time, the city shall notify the
delinquent owner/occupant in writing regarding the delinquent bill and
subsequent penalty. The penalty shall be computed at 10% of the original bill.
Discontinuance of services for late payment shall follow the procedures
established in
Chapter 51.
   (E)   The owner of the premises shall be liable to pay for the service to
their premises, and the service is furnished to the premises by the city only
upon the condition that the owner of the premises is liable therefore to the
city.
   (F)   Each unit of a multiple business or dwelling using one sewer
connection shall pay for each unit as a separate user.
   (G)   Any additional costs caused by discharges to the treatment works of
toxics or other incompatible wastes, including the cost of restoring wastewater
treatment services, clean up and restoration of the receiving waters and
environs, and sludge disposal, shall be borne by the discharger of the wastes,
at no expense to the city.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 53.130 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES PERMITTED TO ENTER ALL PROPERTIES.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city,
bearing proper credentials and identification, are authorized, with the
permission of the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
property within the city, to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspection, observations, measurement, sampling and testing pertinent to the
discharges to the city's sewer system in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of
property within the city does not permit the entrance to the property, the city
shall obtain an administrative search warrant as provided for in §
10.20 before entering the property, except in emergency situations.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.131 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES OBTAINING INFORMATION FOR INDUSTRIAL PROCESSES.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees are
authorized to obtain information concerning industrial processes which have a
direct bearing on the type and source of discharge to the wastewater collection
system. An industry may withhold information considered confidential; however,
the industry must establish that the revelation to the public of the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.132 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES TO OBSERVE SAFETY RULES.
   While performing necessary work on private properties, the Utilities
Superintendent or duly authorized employees of the city shall observe all
safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company, and the
property owner shall be held harmless for injury or death to the city employees
and the city shall indemnify the property owner against loss or damage to its
property by city employees and against liability claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as may be caused by negligence or
failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required in §
53.087.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.133 AUTHORIZED EMPLOYEES PERMITTED TO ENTER ALL PROPERTY WITH EASEMENTS.
   The Utilities Superintendent or other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter all
private properties through which the city holds a duly negotiated easement for
the purposes of but not limited to inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, repair and maintenance of any portion of the wastewater facilities
lying within the easement. All entry and subsequent work, if any, on the
easement shall be done in full accordance with the terms of the duly negotiated
easement pertaining to the private property involved.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL (SSTS)
§ 53.200 PUBLIC SEWER NOT AVAILABLE.
   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
53.018, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter and the Chisago County
Subsurface Sewage Treatment System Ordinance.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.201 DIRECT CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   At the time public sewer becomes available to a property serviced by a
private wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of §
53.018. Once this connection is made, the property owner has 90 days to comply
with Minn. Rules 7080.25 in the abandonment of the private wastewater disposal
system.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.202 APPLICATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA or the
Minnesota Department of Health.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.203 CODE ADOPTED.
   Chisago County Subsurface Sewage Treatment System Ordinance, County
Ordinance Number 10-1, as amended, is hereby adopted by reference and made a
part of this chapter as if fully set forth herein. Before publication of this
code of ordinances, the Clerk shall mark at least one copy of this code as an
official copy and file it in the Clerk's office for use and examination.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person found to be violating any provisions of §§
53.001 through
53.094 and
53.130 through
53.201 shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the
notice, permanently cease all violations.
      (2)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in division (A) of this section shall be punished as provided in §
10.99. Each day in which any violation occurs shall be deemed as a separate
offense.
      (3)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
53.001 through
53.094 and
53.130 through
53.201 shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned by the city by reason of that violation.
   (B)   (1)   Each and every sewer service charge levied by and pursuant to §§
53.110 through
53.116 is made a lien upon the lot or premises served, and all charges which
are, on November 30 of each year, past due and delinquent shall be certified to
the County Auditor by December 1, for collection as an assessment on the
following year's property taxes. The amount certified to the County Auditor
will also include a $75 administrative fee and a 10% interest charge. Nothing
in §§
53.110 through
53.116 shall be held or construed as in any way stopping or interfering with
the right of the city to levy as taxes or assessments against any premises
affected any delinquent or past due sewer service charges.
      (2)   As an alternative to levying a lien, the city may, at its
discretion, file suit in a civil action to collect amounts as are delinquent
and due against the occupant, owner or user of the real estate, and shall
collect as well all attorney's fees incurred by the city in filing the civil
action. Attorney's fees shall be fixed by order of the court.
      (3)   In addition to all penalties and costs attributable and chargeable
to recording notices of the lien or filing a civil action, the owner or user of
the real estate being serviced by the treatment works shall be liable for
interest upon all unpaid balances at the rate of 10% per annum.
(Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 11-10-2014)
CHAPTER 54: PUBLIC UTILITY FEE STRUCTURE
Section
   
54.01   Purpose and general fee structure
   
54.02   Water supply and distribution
   
54.03   Sanitary sewer collection and wastewater treatment
   
Appendix A:    Metropolitan Council SAC criteria for commercial properties
§ 54.01 PURPOSE AND GENERAL FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   (1)   The City of Harris provides a variety of public services to
residents, businesses, and property owners in the community, including public
utilities. Municipal water, wastewater services, stormwater management, and
street lighting are basic public utilities and among the services provided by
the city.
      (2)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish equitable fees for the
provision of public utilities to properties.
      (3)   The City Council periodically reviews the costs for the provision
of these services and adjusts the fees for services accordingly. Fee
adjustments, that are not established in this chapter, will not occur without
review and analysis by the City Council and will require amendments to this
chapter.
   (B)   The fee structure for each utility is identified separately and
includes provisions for the reimbursement of core facility expenditures and
operating expenditures. The fee structure includes existing expenditures
(including debt service) and planned expenditures (including anticipated debt
service) within the public utility systems. Core facility expenditures include
but are not limited to items such as water wells and related equipment, trunk
water distribution lines, water treatment facilities, water storage facilities,
wastewater treatment plant, sanitary sewer lift stations, trunk sanitary sewer
lines, stormwater management facilities. Operating expenditures include but are
not limited to labor and capital expenditures associated with the delivery,
monitoring, maintenance, repair, replacement, upgrade, and administration of
the public utility system.
   (C)   (1)   The fee structure for core facilities is based upon a
Residential Equivalent Unit (REU), and the fees collected are referred to as
connection charges and area charges.
      (2)   Connection charges are collected at the time of building permit
issuance and area charges are collected at the time of subdivision or
development approval.
      (3)   The core facilities REU is established for all land uses as
follows.
 
Single-family detached dwelling        1.0 REU
Single-family attached dwelling (< 11  1.0 REU
units/building)
Multiple-family dwelling (> ten units/ 0.8 REU
building)
                                       1.0 REU for each Metropolitan Council
Commercial/Industrial/Public/          Service Availability Charge (SAC) unit
Institutional/Other                    assigned to the use (see
                                       Appendix A)
 
   (D)   The fee structure for operating expenditures is based upon utility
usage and is collected through quarterly billings to utility users.
(Ord. 2006-6-1, passed 6-6-2006)
§ 54.02 WATER SUPPLY AND DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   Water core facility expenditures - connection charges.
      (1)   Beginning on the effective date of this chapter, the water
connection charge per REU shall be $3,000.
      (2)   The water connection charge shall be collected with new
construction building permits.
   (B)   Water core facility expenditures - area charges.
      (1)   Beginning on the effective date of this chapter, the water area
charge per REU per acre shall be $1,000.
      (2)   The water area charge shall be collected at the time of subdivision
approval or the petition for water service.
   (C)   Water operating expenditures - user fees.
      (1)   Water user fees include a quarterly service charge or base rate of
$66 per REU plus a water consumption fee of $3.11 per 1000 gallons, based upon
metered water usage.
      (2)   There is an additional conservation fee of $1 per 1000 gallons for
water consumption after the first 40,000 gallons per REU in any quarter.
   (D)   Water meter charge.
      (1)   The fee for water meters is part of the water connection charge per
REU and shall be collected with new construction building permits.
      (2)   The fee for single water meters required for multiple REUs shall be
determined by the city.
      (3)   The city may also allow additional meters to be installed for
sprinkling systems, swimming pools and similar uses at a fee determined by the
city.
(Ord. 2006-6-1, passed 6-6-2006)
§ 54.03 SANITARY SEWER COLLECTION AND WASTEWATER TREATMENT.
   (A)   Sanitary sewer use fees include a quarterly minimum charge, or basic
sewer charge, and a quarterly sewer usage rate for residential property and
commercial property (per residential equivalent unit), respectively, as set
forth in the current city fee schedule.
   (B)   Sewer user fees will be waived in instances where separate meters are
installed and used only for irrigation, or in similar non-sewered uses.
(Ord. 2006-6-1, passed 6-6-2006; Am. Ord. 2007-09-04, passed 4-9-2007)
APPENDIX A: METROPOLITAN COUNCIL SAC CRITERIA FOR COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES
Facility Parameter SAC
Facility                                                                       Parameter SAC
Animal Clinic (humane societies, animal research, boarding, and the like)
                                                                               17
   Animal holding areas                                                     fixture   1
                                                                               units
                                                                               34
   Animal runs (kennels)                                                    fixture   1
                                                                               units
Archery (six feet/lane)                                                        six lanes 1
Arenas (bleachers 18 inches/person)                                            110 seats 1
Auditoriums (seven square feet/person)                                         110 seats 1
Automobile Service
                                                                               two
   Fast service (less than four hours/car)                                  service   1
                                                                               bays
   Major service (more than four hours/car)                                 14        1
                                                                               employees
   Car dealership (charges for office, retail, and the like are separate at two
established rates)                                                             service   1
                                                                               bays
                                                                               two
   Fast service (number of service bays times 30%)                          service   1
                                                                               bays
   Major service (Number of service bays times 70% times one employee/bay)  14        1
                                                                               employees
Ballroom ( exclude dance floor)
                                                                               825
   Facility without liquor service                                          square    1
                                                                               feet
                                                                               590
   Facility with liquor service                                             square    1
                                                                               feet
                                                                               2,400
Bank (exclude bank vault)                                                      square    1
                                                                               feet
Banquet Room (15 square feet/person)
                                                                               2,060
   Food catered                                                             square    1
                                                                               feet
                                                                               1,180
   Food catered with dishwashing                                            square    1
                                                                               feet
                                                                               1,028
   Food catered with liquor                                                 square    1
                                                                               feet
                                                                               750
   Food catered with dishwashing and liquor                                 square    1
                                                                               feet
                                                                               825
   Food preparation and dishwashing                                         square    1
                                                                               feet
                                                                               590
   Food preparation with dishwashing and liquor                             square    1
                                                                               feet
 
Facility Parameter SAC
Facility                                                                        Parameter SAC
Barber                                                                          four      1
                                                                                chairs
Batting Cages (six feet/lane)                                                   six lanes 1
                                                                                four
Beauty Salon                                                                    cutting   1
                                                                                salons
Bingo Hall (used only for bingo)                                                110 seats 1
Boarding House (dorm rooms)                                                     five beds 1
Body Shop (major service - more than four hours/car, no vehicle washing)        14        1
                                                                                employees
Bowling Alleys (does not include bar or dining area)                            three     1
                                                                                alleys
Camps (number of gallons times occupant or site)
   Children’s camps (central toilet and bath; overnight, primitive cabins; 274       1
number of occupants times 50 gallons/occupant)                                  gallons
   Day camps (no meals served; number of occupants times ten gallons/occupant274       1
                                                                                gallons
   Labor/construction camps (number of occupants times 50 gallons/occupant)  274       1
                                                                                gallons
   Resorts (housekeeping cabins; number of occupants times 60 gallons/occupan274       1
                                                                                gallons
   Travel trailer parks
   With water and sewer hookup (number sites times 100 gallons/site)         274       1
                                                                                gallons
   With central toilet and showers (number of sites times 75 gallons/site)   274       1
                                                                                gallons
   Sanitary dump (sites without hookup; number of sites times ten gallons/sit274       1
                                                                                gallons
                                                                                Contact MCES
Car Wash                                                                        for
                                                                                determination
                                                                                Contact MCES
Catering                                                                        for
                                                                                determination
Churches (for sanctuary, nave, chancel; seven square feet/person seating area;  275 seats 1
remainder use other criteria; sacristy and ambulatory at no charge)
Cocktail lounge (no food service)                                               23 seats  1
Coffee Shop (no food service)                                                   23 seats  1
Correction Facility (prison)                                                    2.5       1
                                                                                inmates
                                                                                1,650
Court Rooms                                                                     square    1
                                                                                feet
Dorm Rooms (on and off campus; charge for classrooms is additional)             five      1
                                                                                students
 
Facility Parameter SAC
Facility                                                          Parameter  SAC
Daycare
   Number of children for which facility is licensed           14         1
                                                                  children
   Child/adult play area (not licensed)                        490 square 1
                                                                  feet
                                                                  3,000
Dry Cleaners (retail)                                             square     1
                                                                  feet
Elder Housing (at 100% of current SAC rate; see formula below to             
determine the number of residents)
   No washer/dryer in each unit                                three      1
                                                                  residents
   Washer/dryer in each unit                                   2.5        1
                                                                  residents
   Three bedroom unit with washer/dryer (separate from formula            
below)
   Calculate the number of residents as follows:                           
   Number of efficiency units times 1.0 residents/unit                     
   + Number of one-bedroom units times 1.5 residents/unit)                 
   + Number of two-bedroom units times 2.0 residents/unit)                 
   + Number of three-bedroom units times 3.0 residents/unit)               
      Total number of residents for SAC calculation                     
Exercise Area/Gym (juice bars at no charge; sauna and whirlpool   700 square 1
included)                                                         feet
                                                                  2,060
   No showers                                                  square     1
                                                                  feet
Fire Station (charges for office, meeting rooms, and the like, are separate, at
established rates)
   Washing (hose tower, truck)                                 274        1
                                                                  gallons
   Full time, overnight people (75 gallons/person)             274        1
                                                                  gallons
   Volunteer (occasional overnight stays)                      14         1
                                                                  volunteers
Funeral Home (charge for viewing areas only: i.e., chapel)        770 square 1
                                                                  feet
   Apartment                                                   one        1
                                                                  apartment
Game Room (billiards, video and pinball games)
   With bar                                                    590 square 1
                                                                  feet
                                                                  2,060
   Without bar                                                 square     1
                                                                  feet
 
Facility Parameter SAC
Facility                                                                    Parameter SAC
Golf Course (if facility has showers, use Locker Room criteria for those areas)
   18-hole                                                                        3
   nine-hole (par three)                                                          2
   Miniature                                                                      3
   Country club (private)
   Dining room (used only on evenings and weekends)                      15 seats  1
Golf Course (if facility has showers, use Locker Room criteria for those areas) (cont’d)
   Bar and grill (with bar and grill separate)
         Bar only                                                  23 seats  1
         Grill                                                     15 seats  1
                                                                            six
Golf Dome or Driving Range                                                  driving   1
                                                                            stations
Greenhouse
                                                                            15,000
   Area not open to the public                                           square    1
                                                                            feet
                                                                            5,000
   Area open to the public                                               square    1
                                                                            feet
                                                                            3,000
   General retail area                                                   square    1
                                                                            feet
Group Home
   Secondary treatment (residents leave during the day)                  five beds 1
   Primary treatment (residents stay all day)                            three     1
                                                                            beds
Guest Rooms (in an apartment or condominium complex; charge SAC as apartment)
                                                                            100% of
   Washer/dryer                                                          current SAC
                                                                            rate
                                                                            80% of
   No washer/dryer                                                       current SAC
                                                                            rate
                                                                            50% of
   No kitchen                                                            current SAC
                                                                            rate
Handball and Racquetball Courts                                             one court 2
                                                                            2,400
Museum                                                                      square    1
                                                                            feet
Nursing Home                                                                          
Office
   General office (deduct mechanical rooms, elevator shafts, stairwells, 2,400
restroom and storage areas)                                                 square    1
                                                                            feet
   Dental and Doctor’s offices, see Hospital, Outpatient Clinic                  
 
Facility Parameter SAC
Facility                                                                         Parameter SAC
Police Station (charge as Office)
   Cells (overnight - jail)                                                   three     1
                                                                                 people
   Cells (holding area with no overnight stays)                               14 people 1
                                                                                 7,000
Recording/Film Studios                                                           square    1
                                                                                 feet
Restaurant
                                                                                 nine
   Drive-in                                                                   parking   1
                                                                                 spaces
   Fast food (with disposable plates, drink cups, and table utensils)         22 seats  1
Restaurant (cont’d) 
                                                                                 3,000
   Take-out (no seating)                                                      square    1
                                                                                 feet
   Full service (with washable plates, drink cups, and table utensils)        eight     1
                                                                                 seats
Retail Stores (deduct mechanical rooms, elevator shafts, stairwells, escalators, 3,000
restrooms and unfinished storage areas)                                          square    1
                                                                                 feet
                                                                                 825
Roller Rink (skating area only)                                                  square    1
                                                                                 feet
Rooming Houses (no food service)                                                 seven     1
                                                                                 beds
RV Dumping Station (not in association with camp grounds)                                 1
Schools
   Elementary schools (15 gallons/student; 30 square feet/student)            18        1
                                                                                 students
   Colleges/technical/vocational (30 square feet/student)                     18        1
                                                                                 students
   Lecture halls (15 square feet/student)                                     18        1
                                                                                 students
   Labs (50 square feet/student)                                              18        1
                                                                                 students
   Dorm rooms (on and off campus students)                                    five      1
                                                                                 students
   Nursery schools (number of children for which facility is licensed)        14        1
                                                                                 students
   House of worship nurseries (used during worship service only; 30 square fee55        1
child)                                                                           children
                                                                                 2,400
   Nursery (health clubs, bowling alleys, and the like)                       square    1
                                                                                 feet
   Secondary schools (30 square feet/student, at 20 gallons/student)          14        1
                                                                                 students
   Labs (50 square feet/student)                                              14        1
                                                                                 students
   Weekly worship schools (i.e., not daily parochial schools; 30 square feet/ 55        1
student)                                                                         students
 
Facility Parameter SAC
Facility                                                                         Parameter SAC
Service Station
   Gas pumping                                                                          1
                                                                                 3,000
   Convenience center                                                         square    1
                                                                                 feet
   Service bays                                                               two bays  1
   Car wash (see Car Wash)                                                              
Shooting Ranges (rifle and handgun ranges, @ six feet per lane)                  six lanes 1
Swimming Pools (public, swimming pool area only; no charge for private           900
residential, townhouse, apartments, condominiums, hotels, or motels)             square    1
                                                                                 feet
                                                                                 3,000
Tanning Rooms                                                                    square    1
                                                                                 feet
Tennis Courts (public; shower facilities available)                              one court 2
Theater                                                                          64 seats  1
   Drive-in (parking spaces)                                                  55 spaces 1
Vehicle Garage
   Employees stationed in garage                                              14        1
                                                                                 employees
   Vehicle drivers (per day)                                                  28        1
                                                                                 drivers
   Vehicle washing (number of vehicles per day times gallons per minute times 274       1
minutes/vehicle)                                                                 gallons
Warehouses
                                                                                 7,000
   Assembly areas                                                             square    1
                                                                                 feet
   Office/warehouse
                                                                                 2,400
      Minimum 30% office                                                   square    1
                                                                                 feet
      Maximum 70% warehouse                                                7,000     1
                                                                                 square
Whirlpools, therapy (at doctor’s office or clinic; number of gallons to fill   2,400
tank times eight fills/day)                                                      square    1
                                                                                 feet
Yard Storage Buildings (i.e., lumber storage; customer pickup; no permanent      15,000
employees)                                                                       square    1
                                                                                 feet
 
(Ord. 2006-6-1, passed 6-6-2006)
Plumbing Waste Fixture Units
Type of Fixture Fixture Unit Value (f.u.)
Plumbing Waste Fixture Units
Type of Fixture                                 Fixture Unit Value (f.u.)
Note: 17 Fixture Units (f.u.) = 1 SAC
Drinking Fountain                               1
Floor Drain
   two inch waste (only if hose bib included)2
   three inch waste (only if hose bib include3)
   four inch waste (only if hose bib included4
Trench drain: per six-foot section              2
Sinks
   Lab in exam room, bathroom                1
   Kitchen and others                        2
   Surgeon                                   3
   Janitor                                   4
Water closet                                    6
 
(Ord. 2006-6-1, passed 6-6-2006)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
72.   SNOWMOBILES AND RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLES
         
73.   BICYCLES, ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER SKIS AND SKATEBOARDS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   State highway traffic regulations adopted by reference
   
70.02   Trucks prohibited on certain streets
   
70.03   Stop intersections
   
70.04   Through streets and one-way streets
   
70.05   Turning restrictions
   
70.06   U-turns restricted
   
70.07   Excessive noise
   
70.08   Exhibition driving prohibited
   
70.09   Cruising prohibited
   
70.10   Motor vehicle noise
Parades
   
70.20   Definitions
   
70.21   Permit required
   
70.22   Application for permit
   
70.23   Standards for issuance of permit
   
70.24   Notice of rejection of permit application
   
70.25   Appeal procedure when permit denied
   
70.26   Alternative permit
   
70.27   Notice to city and other officials when permit issued
   
70.28   Contents of permit
   
70.29   Duties of permittee
   
70.30   Public conduct during parades
   
70.31   Revocation of permit
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 STATE HIGHWAY TRAFFIC REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The Highway Traffic Regulations Act is hereby adopted by reference.
The regulatory provisions of M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be amended from time
to time, are hereby adopted as a traffic ordinance regulating the use of
highways, streets and alleys within the city and are hereby incorporated in and
made a part of this section as completely as if set out in full herein.
   (B)   The penalty for violation of the provisions of state statutes adopted
by reference in this section shall be identical with the penalty provided for
in the statutes for the same offense.
§ 70.02 TRUCKS PROHIBITED ON CERTAIN STREETS.
   (A)   The City Council by resolution may designate streets on which travel
by commercial vehicles in excess of 10,000 pounds axle weight is prohibited.
The Chief of Police shall cause appropriate signs to be erected on those
streets. No person shall operate a commercial vehicle on posted streets in
violation of the restrictions posted.
   (B)   The weight restrictions established in division (A) shall not apply to
city or emergency vehicles, public school buses or to garbage and refuse trucks
making regular collections and are under contract with the city, nor shall the
weight restrictions in division (A) apply if a commercial vehicle must use the
particular street in question for the purpose of local pick-up or delivery.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.03 STOP INTERSECTIONS.
   The city may designate intersections as a stop intersection and require all
vehicles to stop at one or more entrances to those intersections. The city
shall post signs at those designated intersections, giving notice of the
designation as a stop intersection. It shall be unlawful for any person to fail
to obey the markings or signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.04 THROUGH STREETS AND ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The City Council by resolution may designate any street or portion of a
street as a through street or one-way street where necessary to preserve the
free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents. No trunk highway shall be so
designated unless the consent of the Commissioner of Transportation to the
designation is first secured. The city shall cause appropriate signs to be
posted at the entrance to designated streets. It shall be unlawful for any
person to fail to obey the markings or signs posted under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.05 TURNING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council by resolution may, whenever necessary to
preserve a free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents, designate any
intersection as one where turning of vehicles to the left or to the right, or
both, is to be restricted at all times or during specified hours. No
intersection on a trunk highway shall be so designated until the consent of the
Commissioner of Transportation to the designation is first obtained.
      (2)   The city shall mark by appropriate signs any intersection so
designated.
      (3)   No person shall turn a vehicle at any intersection contrary to the
direction on those signs.
   (B)   Except at intersections, and then only if not posted otherwise, it
shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle on any street to
cross the center of the street for the purpose of parking on the side of the
street opposite the original direction of travel.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person operating a motor vehicle on any
street to back up or drive from a parked position and commence travel in the
opposite direction from which the motor vehicle faced when parked.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.06 U-TURNS RESTRICTED.
   No person shall turn a vehicle so as to reverse its direction on any street
in the business district or at any intersection where traffic is regulated by a
traffic control signal.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.07 EXCESSIVE NOISE.
   (A)   As used in this section, LIGHT-MOTOR VEHICLES means any automobile,
van, motorcycle, motor-driven cycle, motor scooter, go-cart, minibike, trail
bike, or truck with a gross vehicular weight of less than 10,000 pounds.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, or cause to operate,
or use a light-motor vehicle in a manner as to cause, or allow to be caused,
excessive noise levels as a result of unreasonable rapid accelerations,
deceleration, revving of engine, squealing of tires, honking of horns, or as a
result of the operation of audio devices including but not limited to radios,
phonograph, tape players, compact disc players or any other sound-amplifying
device on or from the light-motor vehicle.
   (C)   No person shall operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor
vehicle in violation of the noise standards contained in Minn. Rules parts
7030.1050 and 7030.1060, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   No person shall operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor
vehicle that discharges its exhaust other than through a muffler or other
device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises. No person shall
operate, or cause to operate, or use a light-motor vehicle whose exhaust system
has been modified, altered, or repaired in any way, including the use of a
muffler cut-out or by-pass, that amplifies or otherwise increases noise above
that emitted by the light-motor vehicle as originally equipped. 
   (E)   The following are exempted from the provisions of this section:
      (1)   Sound emitted from sirens of authorized emergency vehicles;
      (2)   Burglar alarms on light-motor vehicles of the electronic signaling
type which also transmit an audible signal to a receiver which can be carried
by the owner or operator of the vehicle; and
      (3)   Celebrations on Halloween and other legal holidays and celebrations
in connection with duly authorized parades.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.08 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel, or in a manner simulating a race. Unreasonable squealing or screeching
sounds emitted by tires or the unreasonable throwing of sand or gravel by the
tires is prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.09 CRUISING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   As used in this section, CRUISING means the operation of a motor
vehicle as defined in M.S. § 169.01, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to
time, past a traffic control point as determined by a peace officer on a street
in an area designated “No Cruising Zone” by City Council resolution four or
more times between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 3:30 a.m.
   (B)   The passing of a traffic control point under the conditions previously
stated, shall constitute unnecessary repetitive driving and is a violation of
this section.
   (C)   The following use of vehicles shall constitute valid exceptions to
this prohibition: taxicabs for hire, buses, authorized emergency vehicle,
vehicles use used by or under contract with any governmental jurisdiction, any
vehicle being used to conduct legitimate business activities.
   (D)   This section may be enforced only in an area that has been posted as a
“No Cruising Zone.” Signs shall be posted at the beginning and the end of any
public street, alley or highway, or portion thereof which is a no cruising
zone.
§ 70.10 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following phrases
are defined as follows:
      ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE. 
         (a)   Distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort and repose of any person or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's value;
         (b)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.69, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires every motor vehicle to be equipped
with a muffler in good working order; or
         (c)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.693 and Minn.
Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as this statute and these rules may be
amended from time to time, which establish motor vehicle noise standards.
      ENGINE-RETARDING BRAKE. A dynamic brake, jake brake, Jacobs brake, C-
brake, Paccar brake, transmission brake or other similar engine-retarding brake
system which alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases that compression.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust or permit
the discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle except through a muffler
that effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and complies with all
applicable state laws and regulations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to intentionally
use an engine-retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot or
alley within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise from the engine
because of an illegally modified or defective exhaust system, except in an
emergency.
   (D)   Minnesota Statutes §§ 169.69 and 169.693 (motor vehicle noise limits)
and Minn. Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as these statutes and rules
may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference.
   (E)   Signs stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” may be installed at
locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise motorists of the
prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign stating “VEHICLE
NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” shall be installed on a state highway without a permit
from the Minnesota Department of Transportation. The provisions of this section
are in full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
PARADES
§ 70.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARADE. Any parade, march, ceremony, show, exhibition, pageant, or
procession of any kind, or any similar display in or on any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place in the city.
   PARADE PERMIT. A permit required by this subchapter.
   PARKING LOT. Any paved or unpaved area used by a place of business or
shopping center for the parking of vehicles of their customers, but shall not
include those operated for hire.
§ 70.21 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall engage or participate in, aid, form or
start any parade unless a parade permit has been obtained from the City Clerk
or other authorized city official.
   (B)   This subchapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Funeral processions;
      (2)   Students going to and from school classes or participating in
educational activities; provided, that the conduct is under the immediate
direction and supervision of the proper school authorities;
      (3)   A governmental agency acting within the scope of its functions.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.22 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Generally. A person seeking issuance of a parade permit shall file an
application with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Filing period. The application for a parade permit shall be filed not
less than 72 hours but not more than 60 days before the date on which it is
proposed to conduct the parade. Failure to file an application 72 hours in
advance will not result in automatic denial of the permit; provided, that the
applicant shows reasonable grounds why the application could not be filed 72
hours in advance.
   (C)   Required information. The application for a parade permit shall set
forth the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person seeking to
conduct the parade;
      (2)   If the parade is proposed to be conducted for, on behalf of, or by
an organization, the name, address, and telephone number of the headquarters of
the organization and of the authorized and responsible heads of the
organization;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be
the parade chairperson and who will be responsible for its conduct;
      (4)   The date when the parade is to be conducted;
      (5)   The route to be traveled, the starting point, and the termination
point;
      (6)   The approximate number of persons, animals, and vehicles which will
constitute the parade, the type of animals, if any, and the description of the
vehicles;
      (7)   The hours when the parade will start and terminate;
      (8)   A statement as to whether the parade will occupy all or only a
portion of the width of the streets, sidewalk, park or other public place
proposed to be traversed;
      (9)   The location by street of any assembly area for the parade;
      (10)   The time at which units of the parade will begin to assemble at
any assembly area or areas;
      (11)   The interval of space to be maintained between units of the
parade;
      (12)   If the parade is designed to be held by, and on behalf of or for,
any person other than the applicant, the applicant for the permit shall file a
communication in writing from the person authorizing the applicant to apply for
the permit on his or her behalf;
      (13)   Any additional information reasonably necessary to a fair
determination as to whether a permit should be issued.
   (D)   There shall be paid at the time of filing an application for a parade
permit a fee in an amount established from time to time by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.23 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   The City Clerk shall issue a permit when, from a consideration of the
application and from other information obtained, he or she finds that:
   (A)   The conduct of the parade will not substantially interrupt the safe
and orderly movement of other traffic contiguous to its route;
   (B)   The conduct of the parade will not require the diversion of so great a
number of police officers of the city to properly police the line of movement
and the areas contiguous thereto as to prevent normal police protection to the
city;
   (C)   The concentration of persons, animals and vehicles at assembly points
of the parade will not unduly interfere with proper fire and police protection
of, or ambulance service to, areas contiguous to the assembly areas;
   (D)   The conduct of the parade will not interfere with the movement of
firefighting equipment en route to a fire;
   (E)   The parade is scheduled to move from its point of origin to its point
of termination expeditiously and without unreasonable delays en route;
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.24 NOTICE OF REJECTION OF PERMIT APPLICATION.
   If the City Clerk disapproves the application, he or she shall mail to the
applicant within the three regular business days after the date on which the
application was filed a notice of his or her action stating the reasons for his
or her denial of the permit.
§ 70.25 APPEAL PROCEDURE WHEN PERMIT DENIED.
   Any person aggrieved shall have the right to appeal the denial of a parade
permit to the City Council. The appeal shall be taken within 30 days after
notice of denial. The City Council shall act on the appeal within 30 days after
its receipt.
§ 70.26 ALTERNATIVE PERMIT.
   The City Clerk or other authorized city official, in denying an application
for a parade permit, shall be empowered to authorize the conduct of the parade
on a date, at a time, or over a route different than that named by the
applicant. An applicant desiring to accept an alternate permit shall file a
written notice of his or her acceptance. An alternate parade permit shall
conform to the requirements of, and shall have the effect of, a parade permit
under this subchapter.
§ 70.27 NOTICE TO CITY AND OTHER OFFICIALS WHEN PERMIT ISSUED.
   Immediately on the issuance of a parade permit, a copy thereof shall be sent
to the Police Chief and the Fire Chief.
§ 70.28 CONTENTS OF PERMIT.
   Each parade permit shall state the following information:
   (A)   Starting time;
   (B)   Minimum speed;
   (C)   Maximum speed;
   (D)   Maximum interval of space to be maintained between the units of the
parade;
   (E)   The portions of the street, sidewalk, park or other public place to be
traversed that may be occupied by the parade;
   (F)   The maximum length of the parade in miles or fractions thereof;
   (G)   Other information as is reasonably necessary to the enforcement of
this subchapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.29 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   A permittee hereunder shall comply with all permit directions and conditions
and with all applicable laws and ordinances. The parade chairperson or other
person heading or leading the activity shall carry the parade permit on his or
her person during the conduct of the parade.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.30 PUBLIC CONDUCT DURING PARADES.
   (A)   Interference. No person shall unreasonably hamper, obstruct, impede or
interfere with any parade or parade assembly or with any person, vehicle or
animal participating or used in a parade.
   (B)   Driving through parades. No driver of a vehicle except a police car or
other emergency vehicle shall drive between the vehicles or persons comprising
a parade when the vehicles or persons are in motion and are conspicuously
designated as a parade.
   (C)   Parking on parade route. The Police Chief or other authorized city
official shall have the authority, when reasonably necessary, to prohibit or
restrict the parking of vehicles along a street or other public thoroughfare or
part thereof constituting a part of the route of a parade. Signs shall be
posted to the effect, and it shall be unlawful for any person to park or leave
unattended any vehicle in violation thereof. No person shall be liable for
parking on a street or other public thoroughfare unless signs have been posted
in accordance with this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.31 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city shall have the authority to revoke a parade permit issued hereunder
on application of the standards for issuance as herein set forth.
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   No parking where posted
   
71.02   Limited parking
   
71.03   Other parking restrictions
   
71.04   Restricted parking during snow season
   
71.05   Parking certain semi-trailers or tractors on public streets prohibited
   
71.06   Overnight parking
   
71.07   Repairing of vehicles
   
71.08   Prohibiting parking areas in front yards in residential zones
   
71.09   Impoundment
   
71.10   Prima facie violation
Cross-reference:
   Abandoned motor vehicles, see
Chapter 92
§ 71.01 NO PARKING WHERE POSTED.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
city at any place where official signs or where appropriate devices, marks, or
painting, either upon the surface of the street or the curb immediately
adjacent thereto, prohibit these acts.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 LIMITED PARKING.
   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle upon the public streets of the
city where official signs are erected limiting the parking time thereon, for a
period of time in excess of the time as designated by the official signs.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 OTHER PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may by resolution order the placing of signs, devices
or marks, or the painting of streets or curbs prohibiting or restricting the
stopping, standing or parking of vehicles on any street where, in its opinion,
as evidenced by a finding in its official minutes, the stopping, standing or
parking is dangerous to those using the highway, or where the stopping,
standing or parking of vehicles would unduly interfere with the free movement
of traffic. The signs, devices, marks or painting shall be official signs,
devices, marks or painting, and no person shall stop, stand or park any vehicle
in violation of the restrictions thereon or as indicated thereby.
   (B)   “No parking” signs may be placed by city employees on any street of
the city to permit construction, repair, snow removal, street cleaning or
similar temporary activities. While the signs are in place, it shall be
unlawful to park any vehicle on the streets or portion thereof so posted.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park in an area designated by
Council resolution and posted as a fire lane.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park a vehicle or permit it to
stand, whether attended or unattended, on an alley within the city, provided
that this does not prohibit the parking of vehicles for less than one hour on
an alley for the purpose of access to abutting property for loading or
unloading merchandise or other material when parking on the property itself is
not available.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for a person to park a motor vehicle in an area
designated by posted signs pursuant to Council resolution for certain types of
vehicles, unless the motor vehicle is one of the types of vehicles specifically
permitted.
   (F)   Every vehicle parked upon any street with a curb shall be parked
parallel to the curb, unless angle parking is designated by appropriate signs
or markings. On streets with a curb, the right-hand wheels of any vehicle
parked shall be within one foot of the curb. On streets without a curb, the
vehicle shall be parked to the right of the main traveled portion of the street
and parallel to it and in such a manner as not to interfere with the free flow
of traffic, unless angle parking is designated by appropriate signs or
markings.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.04 RESTRICTED PARKING DURING SNOW SEASON.
   (A)   In order to facilitate snow removal from the public streets, from
November 1 through March 31 of each year, no vehicles shall be parked on any
public street between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   The City Council may, at its own discretion, lift the winter parking
restriction by resolution if, in the Council’s judgement, restricting parking
for the remainder of the snow season to facilitate snow removal is no longer a
necessity.
   (C)   Violation of this section shall be a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 6-8-2020) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.05 PARKING CERTAIN SEMI-TRAILERS OR TRACTORS ON PUBLIC STREETS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a semi-tractor or trailer, or any truck rated with a
gross vehicle weight in excess of 10,000 pounds, in any area of the city zoned
for residential use or other area designated by City Council resolution except
when the vehicle is parked in a completely enclosed garage.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.06 OVERNIGHT PARKING.
   The following vehicles shall not be allowed to park on city streets
overnight: repair, delivery, rented vehicles with commercial plates and refuse
and recycling haulers or any other vehicle not registered as a passenger
vehicle.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.07 REPAIRING OF VEHICLES.
   Minor repairs and tune-ups, such as replacement of spark plugs, spark plug
wires, thermostat, radiator or heater hoses, oil changes and brake jobs shall
be permitted on city streets; provided, that they can be accomplished within
the same day and completed by 10:00 p.m. All other repairs shall be considered
major repairs and shall not be permitted on any city street, unless the repairs
are made within an enclosed structure allowed within the zoning district.
Damage to city streets because of repairs or lack of repairs shall be charged
to the person responsible for the damage to the city streets.
§ 71.08 PROHIBITING PARKING AREAS IN FRONT YARDS IN RESIDENTIAL ZONES.
   (A)   The construction, operation or maintaining a parking area, either
paved or unpaved, in the front yard of any lot is prohibited in any area zoned
for residential use. For the purpose of this section, front yard shall mean and
include that area between the sidewalk, or street line in the event there is no
sidewalk, and the front line of the principal building, extending in both
directions to the side lot lines.
   (B)   Use of that portion of a vacant lot within 30 feet of the sidewalk
lines for parking in an area zoned for residential use is prohibited.
   (C)   Driveways in any area zoned for residential use shall not exceed 25%
of the width at the front or side lot line. Where more than one driveway is
desired or required, they shall be at least 70 feet apart.
   (D)   The front part of any lot shall not be used for the parking of an
automobile, truck, trailer, tractor, recreational vehicle, camper, travel
trailer, camper top, tent, wagon, boat, boat trailer, storage area or motor
home.
   (E)   No person, being the owner or having control of any building, shall
violate or fail to conform to any provision of this section, or fail to obey
any lawful order of an officer charged with its enforcement. Each and every day
on which any person continues to violate the provisions of this section, after
having been notified of the violation, shall constitute a separate offense.
This conviction shall not relieve any person from thereafter complying with the
provisions of this section, and shall be sufficient cause to refuse further
building or land use permits to the offender until a time as the orders have
been complied with.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.09 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any police officer may order the removal of a vehicle from a street to a
garage or other place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended and
constitutes an obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal, street
improvements or maintenance operations. The vehicle shall not be released until
the fees for towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine imposed for
violation of this chapter.
§ 71.10 PRIMA FACIE VIOLATIONS.
   The presence of any motor vehicle on any street when standing or parked in
violation of this chapter is prima facie evidence that the registered owner of
the vehicle committed or authorized the commission of the violation.
CHAPTER 72: SNOWMOBILES AND RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Purpose and intent
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Operation generally
   
72.04   Permitted track sites
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to provide rules, regulations and
restrictions regarding the operation of snowmobiles and recreational motor
vehicles within the limits of the city. This chapter is intended to protect
private and public property and to provide rules and regulations, which will
protect and promote the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of
the city.
(Ord. 2007-8-13, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 7-8-2013)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   ARENA. Any structure, either enclosed or open, or any open graded area,
designed for the display, competition or judging of livestock, including
horses, or other animals.
   DEADMAN THROTTLE or SAFETY THROTTLE. A device which, when pressure is
removed from the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be
disengaged from the drive track.
   LIVESTOCK SHELTER. Any structure in which livestock, including horses, are
currently kept, or may be kept in the future, on a permanent, temporary or
seasonal basis.
   NATURAL TERRAIN. An area other than roadways, driveways (private or public),
parking lots and other areas, the surface of which has been intentionally
modified for motor vehicle operation thereon.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and have control of the operation of a snowmobile
or recreational motor vehicle.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle.
   OWNER. A person other than a lien holder having the property in or title to
a snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle or entitled to its use or
possession.
   RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle designed for, used, or capable
of use on land for sport, amusement or recreation, other than motor homes,
pickup campers or the like, whether or not eligible to be licensed for use upon
streets, including but not limited to motorbikes, motor scooters, trail bikes,
mini bikes, motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, dune buggies, go-carts and
hovercraft.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Means any structure in which a human being currently
resides, or may reside in the future, on a permanent, temporary or seasonal
basis.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice,
whether steered by wheels, skis or runners.
   TRACK. A course built for the operation of recreational motor vehicles which
operate in a repetitive, continuous manner in an area where the contour or
landscape have been physically altered or changed thereby creating a clearly
identifiable track.
(Ord. 2007-8-13, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 7-8-2013)
§ 72.03 OPERATION GENERALLY.
   Except as otherwise specifically permitted and authorized, it is unlawful
for any person to operate a snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle within the
corporate limits of the city in the following manner, or in violation of M.S.
§§ 84.787 through 84.929, or in violation of any rule of the State Commissioner
of Natural Resources and Public Safety promulgated thereto:
   (A)   No person shall operate a snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle on
a public sidewalk, walkway or trail provided or used for pedestrian travel;
   (B)   No person shall operate a snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle on
private property of another without lawful authority or consent of the owner or
occupant;
   (C)   No person shall operate a snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle on
any publicly owned lands, including, but not limited to, school grounds, park
property, playgrounds, recreation areas and golf courses, except areas
previously listed or authorized for such use by the proper public authority, in
which case such use shall be lawful and snowmobile or recreational motor
vehicles may be driven in and out of such areas by the shortest route;
   (D)   No person shall operate a snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle at
a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all the surrounding
circumstances, but in no event in excess of the posted speed limits and/or not
in excess of 15 miles per hour in the platted portion of the city;
   (E)   No person shall operate a snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle at
any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another or to cause injury or damage thereto;
   (F)   No person shall operate a snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle in
a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or unusual noise which disturbs,
annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of another, or in violation of §
94.04(D) of this code of ordinances;
   (G)   Except as provided below, no person shall operate a snowmobile or
recreational motor vehicle between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. on any
day, except by the most direct route to their destination or on a groomed
grant-in-aid snowmobile trail;
   (H)   No person shall operate a snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle in
or on any portion of a municipal street or right-of-way, or upon or in the
outside bank, slope, or ditch of any trunk, county state aid, or county highway
except as permitted by law, such as, but not limited to, making a direct
crossing of a street or traveling upon a snowmobile or recreational motor
vehicle trail approved by the City Council;
   (I)   No person shall intentionally drive, chase, run over, kill or
otherwise take or attempt to take any animal, wild or domestic, with a
snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle;
   (J)   No person shall leave a snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle in a
public place without locking the ignition, removing the key and taking the key;
and
   (K)   No person shall operate a snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle in
the R-1 zoned district within ten feet of the property line and in an R-2 zoned
district within 30 feet of the property line, except as follows:
      (1)   When unloading or loading the vehicle on the owner's property;
      (2)   While traveling on streets adjoining the owner's property;
      (3)   While plowing snow only for the purposes of road access to owner's
property;
      (4)   While engaging in lawn or property maintenance on property owned by
the operator; or
      (5)   When taking a direct route to and from the residential property.
(Ord. 2007-8-13, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 PERMITTED TRACK SITES.
   Operation of snowmobiles and recreational vehicles is allowed on track sites
that meet all of the following criteria in the City of Harris.
   (A)   The parcel of land is not in a residential subdivision.
   (B)   The track must be located a minimum of one mile, in all directions,
from any residential dwelling, except that of the owner.
   (C)   The track must be located a minimum of one mile, in all directions,
from a livestock shelter and/or arena, except that of the owner.
   (D)   Landowners wishing to hold a single day or weekend motor sport event
must apply for an interim use permit.
   (E)   There must be a 50-foot minimum setback from a track to the property
line.
   (F)   The track will not be used between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. on any day.
(Ord. 2007-8-13, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 7-8-2013) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter or the statues or rules
adopted by reference in this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99. Such person shall also be liable for the recovery of damages and of
expenses incurred in prosecution of a violation of this chapter. Such penalty
may be imposed in addition to any other legal or equitable remedies available
to the city.
(Ord. 2007-8-13, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 7-8-2013)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES, ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER SKIS AND SKATEBOARDS
Section
Bicycles
   
73.01   Definition
   
73.02   Traffic laws apply
   
73.03   Manner and number riding
   
73.04   Hitching rides
   
73.05   Where to ride
   
73.06   Right-of-way; sidewalks
   
73.07   Carrying articles
   
73.08   Lighting and brake equipment
   
73.09    Sale with reflectors
Roller Blades, Roller Skates, Roller Skis and Skateboards
   
73.25   Definitions
   
73.26   Unlawful acts
   
73.27   Right-of-way
   
73.28   Hours of use
 
   
73.99    Violations
BICYCLES
§ 73.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE. Every device propelled solely by human power upon which any person
may ride, having two tandem wheels, except scooters and similar devices, and
including any device generally recognized as a BICYCLE though equipped with two
front or rear wheels.
§ 73.02 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   Every person riding a bicycle on a street or upon any path set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles shall be granted all of the rights and shall be
subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by this
title, except as to special regulations in this chapter and except as to those
provisions of this chapter which by their nature can have no application.
§ 73.03 MANNER AND NUMBER RIDING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person propelling a bicycle to ride other than
upon or astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except on a baby seat attached to
the bicycle, provided that the seat is equipped with a harness to hold the
child securely in the seat and that protection is provided against the child's
feet hitting the spokes of the wheel, or in a seat attached to the bicycle
operator.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 HITCHING RIDES.
   It is unlawful for any person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, roller blades, skate board, sled, or toy vehicle to attach the same or
themselves to any vehicle upon a street.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 WHERE TO RIDE.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a street shall ride as near to
the right side of the street as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a street shall not ride more than two
abreast except on paths or parts of streets set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 RIGHT-OF-WAY; SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before
overtaking and passing the pedestrian.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to carry any package,
bundle, or article which prevents the driver from keeping at least one hand
upon the handlebars.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 LIGHTING AND BRAKE EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Every bicycle, when in use at night time, shall be equipped with, or
its operator shall carry a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light
visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the front, and with a red
reflector on the rear of a type approved by the Department of Public Safety
which is visible from all distances from 100 feet to 600 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp
emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to the red reflector. No person may, at any other time when
there is not sufficient light to render clearly discernible persons and
vehicles on the highway at a distance of 500 feet ahead, operate a bicycle
unless the bicycle or its operator is equipped with reflective surfaces that
shall be visible during the hours of darkness from 600 feet when viewed in
front of lawful lower beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. The reflective
surfaces shall include reflective materials on each side of each pedal to
indicate their presence from the front or the rear and with a minimum of 20
square inches on each side of the bicycle or its operator of white reflective
material. All reflective materials used in compliance with this section shall
meet the requirements as prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 SALE WITH REFLECTORS.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell or offer for sale any new bicycle
unless it is equipped with such reflectors as are prescribed in §
73.08.
Penalty, see §
73.99
ROLLER BLADES, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER SKIS AND SKATEBOARDS
§ 73.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. That part of the City so designated by council
resolution.
   OPERATE. To ride on or upon or control the operation of roller blades,
roller skates, or a skateboard.
   OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of
roller blades, roller skates, or a skateboard.
   ROLLER BLADES/ROLLER SKATES. A shoe with wheels attached or a device with
wheels which is designed to be attached to a shoe.
   ROLLER SKIS. A pair of skis platformed with wheels attached which is
intended to simulate skiing.
   SKATEBOARD. A device for riding-upon, usually while standing, consisting of
an oblong piece of wood, or of other composition, mounted on skate wheels.
§ 73.26 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate roller blades, roller skates,
roller skis or a skateboard under the circumstances set forth hereafter:
      (1)   On any public sidewalk, street, or public parking lot within the
Business District;
      (2)   On private property of another without the express permission to do
so by the owner or occupant of the property; or
      (3)   In any careless, reckless, or negligent manner so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger the safety of any person or property of any other person.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person operating roller blades, roller skates,
roller skis or a skateboard to attach the same, or the person of the operator,
to any vehicle upon a street.
   (C)   Every person operating roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or a
skateboard upon a street shall ride as close as possible to the right-hand curb
or edge of the street.
   (D)   Every person operating roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or a
skateboard upon a street shall observe the same rules of the road as required
of bicycles, pursuant to M.S. § 169.222.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.27 RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   The operator of roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or a skateboard
emerging from any alley, driveway, or building, upon approaching a sidewalk or
the sidewalk area extending across any alleyway, shall yield the right-of-way
to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk or sidewalk area and upon
entering the street shall yield the right-of-way to all vehicles approaching on
the street.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.28 HOURS OF USE.
   It is unlawful for any person to use roller blades, roller skates, roller
skis or a skateboard upon a public street, sidewalk, or other roadway from 10:
00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m., except on private property with express permission of
owner, and except if the roller blades, roller skates, roller skis, skateboard
or operator are equipped with reflective surfaces that shall be visible during
the hours of darkness from 600 feet when viewed in front of lawful lower beams
of head lamps on a motor vehicle. The reflective material shall be a minimum of
40 square inches. All reflective materials used in compliance with this section
shall meet the requirements as prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 VIOLATIONS.
   A person apprehended by a peace officer in violation of the provisions of
this chapter does, by his or her use of the public sidewalks, streets, and
public parking lots, consent to the impoundment by a police officer of the
roller blades, roller skates, roller skis or skateboard for a period of three
days upon a first offense, a week upon the second offense and 30 days upon a
third or additional offense. Any operator aggrieved by the impoundment of his
or her roller blades, roller skates roller skis or skateboard may petition the
Council for a hearing thereon at the next regular Council meeting following the
impoundment. This provision is in addition to the provisions for fines and
penalties as set forth in §
10.99.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS
         
91.   UNCLAIMED AND ABANDONED PROPERTY
         
92.   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
         
93.   PUBLIC SAFETY
         
94.   NUISANCES
         
95.   WEEDS
         
96.   PUBLIC BATHING BEACHES
         
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
98.   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITES AND CHEMICAL
CHAPTER 90: DOGS AND OTHER ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Licensing
   
90.03   License application
   
90.04   License fee
   
90.05   Term of license
   
90.06   Dogs not requiring licensing
   
90.07   Tag and collar
   
90.08   Restraint of dog
   
90.09   Confinement of certain dogs
   
90.10   Dogs creating nuisances prohibited
   
90.11   Impounding dogs
   
90.12   Notice to owner
   
90.13   Reclaiming impounded dog
   
90.14   Dogs which cannot be impounded
   
90.15   Selling of impounded dogs
   
90.16   Rabies shots required, penalties for violation
   
90.17   Dogs in heat
   
90.18   Biting dogs to be quarantined
   
90.19   Cats or animals of allied genera
   
90.20   Certain animals regulated
   
90.21   Shod animals prohibited on city streets
   
90.22   Revocation of license or permit
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AT LARGE. A dog shall be termed AT LARGE when it is not under restraint, as
defined herein.
   HARBORER. Any person who has custody of any dog or permits a dog to be kept
or to stay on or about his or her premises.
   OWNER. Any person, group of persons, or legal entity owning, keeping or
harboring a dog or dogs.
   POLICE. The police officers of the city, or any person, firm, or agency
hired or engaged by the city to assist the police in the performance of their
duties.
   RESTRAINT. A dog is under RESTRAINT if it is controlled by a leash not
exceeding eight feet in length; or if it is under the voice of signal command
of a competent person, providing that the dog will immediately respond to and
obey the voice or signal commands of the person; or if it is within the
boundaries of the owner’s or harborer’s premises.
(Prior Code, § 406.01)
§ 90.02 LICENSING.
   No person shall own, keep or harbor a dog unless the dog is licensed as
provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 406.02) Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Written application shall be made in writing at the office of the City
Clerk.
   (B)   The application shall state the name and address of the owner of the
dog, the name, breed, age, sex, and color of the dog, and be accompanied by a
certificate of vaccination from a qualified source certifying that the dog has
been vaccinated against rabies, or has received a booster shot therefor, within
the 24-month period immediately preceding the application.
(Prior Code, § 406.03) Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.04 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual license fee shall be as established by ordinance and shall be
listed in the city’s fee schedule located in §
36.01. The license fee shall be paid at the time of making the application.
(Prior Code, § 406.04) Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.05 TERM OF LICENSE.
   (A)   All dog licenses shall be issued for one year, beginning with the
first day of June of each year.
   (B)   Application for license shall be made 30 days prior to the first day
of January of each year.
   (C)   A permit must be obtained within 30 days for any dog brought into and
kept in the city after January 1 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 406.05) Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.06 DOGS NOT REQUIRING LICENSING.
   No license shall be required of dogs less than six months of age.
(Prior Code, § 406.06)
§ 90.07 TAG AND COLLAR.
   All dogs shall be harnessed or collared. The City Clerk shall upon issuance
of a license provide the applicant with a metallic tag which shall be dated and
numbered, and which shall be securely fastened to the dog’s collar or harness
at all times.
(Prior Code, § 406.07) Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.08 RESTRAINT OF DOG.
   It shall be unlawful for the dog or cat of any person who owns, harbors, or
keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A person, who owns, harbors, or keeps a
dog or cat which runs at large shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Dogs or cats
on a leash and accompanied by a responsible person or accompanied by and under
the control and direction of a responsible person, so as to be effectively
restrained by command as by leash, shall be permitted in streets or on public
land unless the city has posted an area with signs reading “Dogs or Cats
Prohibited.”
Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.09 CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   The owner or harborer shall confine within a building or secure enclosure
any fierce, dangerous, or vicious dog, and not permit the dog out of
confinement unless and until the dog is securely muzzled and in control of a
competent person.
(Prior Code, § 406.09) Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.10 DOGS CREATING NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep or harbor a dog which barks or howls, or otherwise
constitutes a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 406.10) Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.11 IMPOUNDING DOGS.
   (A)   The police, or other duly appointed persons, may take and impound any
dog which is not being kept, confined or restrained in a manner consistent with
the requirements of this regulation.
   (B)   The police or persons may enter upon private premises where it appears
that there is reasonable cause to believe that a dog is not being kept,
confined or restrained as herein required.
(Prior Code, § 406.11) Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.12 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   Immediately upon the impounding of a dog wearing a current license tag, the
police shall make every reasonable effort to notify the owner or harborer of
the impoundment, and of the conditions whereby the owner or harborer may regain
custody of the dog. Verbal notice shall be immediately confirmed in writing by
the police.
(Prior Code, § 406.12)
§ 90.13 RECLAIMING IMPOUNDED DOG.
   Any dog impounded hereunder may be reclaimed by the owner or harborer of
same within five days after receiving notice of the impoundment, excluding
Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, upon payment to the City Clerk of an
impounding fee as established by ordinance and listed in the city’s fee
schedule located in §
36.01, together with the actual costs incurred for boarding the dog. If the dog
being reclaimed has no license, a license shall be issued, and the fee for same
paid prior to the release from impoundment of the dog.
(Prior Code, § 406.13)
§ 90.14 DOGS WHICH CANNOT BE IMPOUNDED.
   If a dog is rabid, or otherwise diseased, vicious or dangerous, and cannot
be impounded after a reasonable effort or without serious risk to the impounder
or other persons, the dog may be immediately killed.
(Prior Code, § 406.14)
§ 90.15 SELLING OF IMPOUNDED DOGS.
   If a dog taken up and impounded has not been reclaimed within the time
provided herein, or if the owner cannot be located, then within five days, the
person in charge of the pound shall give three days notice of the time and
place where the dog will be sold by posting notices in his or her office, the
office of the City Clerk, and in a conspicuous place at the dog pound. Should
the person in charge of the pound be unable to sell the dog, for want of
bidders or otherwise, it shall be lawful for him or her to sell the dog
thereafter and without notice, or to otherwise dispose of the dog.
(Prior Code, § 406.15)
§ 90.16 RABIES SHOTS REQUIRED, PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, or harbor a dog within
the city, which dog has not had a vaccination for rabies within the time
required under standard veterinary practices.
(Prior Code, § 406.16) Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.17 DOGS IN HEAT.
   Any female dog in heat shall be kept confined indoors, or impounded for the
duration of her season (oestrus cycle) in a commercial dog kennel, the cost of
which shall be borne by the owner.
(Prior Code, § 406.17) Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.18 BITING DOGS TO BE QUARANTINED.
   (A)   Whenever any dog has bitten a person, the owner or custodian of the
dog or animal, having been so notified, either orally or in writing, shall
immediately quarantine the dog or animal at the owner’s home or other suitable
place of confinement, as directed by the responsible officer of the city, for a
period of 14 days after the occurrence.
   (B)   During the quarantine period, the animal shall be securely confined in
a building or in a yard enclosed by a fence so constructed that the animal
cannot escape or otherwise leave the enclosure, and which will not permit other
animals or persons to enter, for the purpose of preventing the animal from
biting or otherwise coming in contact with persons or other animals.
   (C)   Upon a reasonable suspicion that the dog may be rabid, the dog shall
be subjected to the necessary tests by a doctor of veterinary medicine for the
purpose of determining if it is infected with rabies.
   (D)   The confinement, testing, treatment, in addition to all other expenses
incurred as the result of a dog biting a person shall be the expense of the
owner of the animal.
(Prior Code, § 406.18) Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.19 CATS OR ANIMALS OF ALLIED GENERA.
   (A)   It shall be the obligation and responsibility of the owner of any
animal of this class to prevent the animal from molesting, defiling or
destroying any property, public or private.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of an animal of this class to
permit or allow the animal to roam or engage in activities which otherwise
constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 406.19) Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.20 CERTAIN ANIMALS REGULATED.
   It shall be unlawful to keep or harbor within any platted portion of the
city not used principally for a farming enterprise any of the following animals
or animals of allied genera, without first obtaining a written permit therefor
from the City Council; horses, cows, sheep, goats, swine, chickens, animals of
the genus reptilia or allied genera which are venomous or of the constrictor
type; birds or other animals the keeping in captivity of which is prohibited by
law.
(Prior Code, § 406.20) Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.21 SHOD ANIMALS PROHIBITED ON CITY STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or allow an animal with shod
hoofs on any city street within the platted portion of the city.
(Prior Code, § 406.21) Penalty §
10.99
§ 90.22 REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   The failure of any owner to comply with the requirements of this chapter
shall constitute grounds for the immediate revocation of any license or permit
issued under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 406.22)
CHAPTER 91: UNCLAIMED AND ABANDONED PROPERTY
Section
   
91.01   Disposal
§ 91.01 DISPOSAL.
   All property, except abandoned motor vehicles, lawfully coming into the
possession of the city and unclaimed by its owner, shall be disposed of as
follows.
   (A)   The department of the city into whose possession property comes shall
arrange for storage of the same. If municipal facilities for storage are
unavailable or inadequate, arrangements for storage at privately owned
facilities may be arranged.
   (B)   The owner of the property may claim the same by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the city any storage or maintenance
costs incurred by the city. A receipt for the property shall be obtained upon
release to the owner.
   (C)   In the event that the property remains unclaimed in the possession of
the city for a period of three months, the property shall thereafter be sold to
the highest bidder at a public auction conducted by the Chief of Police of the
city, or other authorized person. The auction shall be held after two weeks
published notice setting forth the time and place thereof and the property to
be sold.
   (D)   Net proceeds from the sale of the property after deduction of storage
costs incurred, if any, shall be placed in the treasury of the city, subject to
the right of the former owner to payment of the sale price to him or her from
the fund upon application and satisfactory proof of ownership within six months
of the sale.
(Prior Code, § 403.01)
CHAPTER 92: ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
92.01   Findings and purpose
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Violation to abandon motor vehicle
   
92.04   Authority to impound motor vehicles
   
92.05   Sale; waiting periods
   
92.06   Notice of taking and sale
   
92.07   Right to reclaim
   
92.08   Operator’s deficiency claim; consent to sale
   
92.09   Disposition by impound lot
   
92.10   Disposal authority
   
92.11   Contracts; reimbursement by MPCA
§ 92.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   M.S. Chapter 168B, and Minn. Rules Chapter 7035, as they may be amended from
time to time, are hereby adopted by reference. This chapter is adopted under
the authority of M.S. § 168B.09, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to
time. If any of these provisions are less stringent that the provisions of M.S.
§ 168B or Minn. Rules Chapter 7035, as they may be amended from time to time,
the statute or rule shall take precedence.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (1)   A motor vehicle, as defined in M.S. § 169.01 as it may be amended
from time to time, that:
         (a)   Has remained illegally:
            1.   For a period of more than 48 hours on any property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, or more than four hours on that property
when it is properly posted; or
            2.   On private property for a period of time, as determined under
§
92.04(B), without the consent of the person in control of the property; and
         (b)   Lacks vital component parts or is in an inoperable condition
that it has no substantial potential for further use consistent with its usual
functions, unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building.
      (2)   A classic car or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. § 168.10 as it may
be amended from time to time, is not considered an ABANDONED VEHICLE.
      (3)   Vehicles on the premises of junk yards and automobile graveyards
that are defined, maintained, and licensed in accordance with M. S. § 161.242
as it may be amended from time to time, or that are licensed and maintained in
accordance with local laws and zoning regulations, are not considered ABANDONED
VEHICLES.
      (4)   A vehicle being held for storage by agreement or being held under
police authority or pursuant to a writ or court order is not considered
abandoned, nor may it be processed as abandoned while the police hold, writ or
court order is in effect.
   DEPARTMENT. The Minnesota Department of Public Safety.
   IMPOUND. To take and hold a vehicle in legal custody. There are two types of
IMPOUND, public and nonpublic.
   IMPOUND LOT OPERATOR or OPERATOR. A person who engages in impounding or
storing, usually temporarily, unauthorized or abandoned vehicles. OPERATOR
includes an operator of a public or nonpublic impound lot, regardless of
whether tow truck service is provided.
   JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle that:
      (1)   Is three years old or older;
      (2)   Is extensively damaged, with the damage including things as broken
or missing wheels, motor, drive train or transmission;
      (3)   Is apparently inoperable;
      (4)   Does not have a valid, current registration plate; and
      (5)   Has an approximate fair market value equal only to the approximate
value of the scrap in it.
   MOTOR VEHICLE or VEHICLE. Has the meaning given MOTOR VEHICLE in M.S. §
169.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
   MOTOR VEHICLE WASTE. Solid waste and liquid wastes derived in the operation
of or in the recycling of a motor vehicle, including things such as tires and
used motor oil, but excluding scrap metal.
   MPCA or AGENCY. The Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NONPUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot that is not a public impound lot.
   PUBLIC IMPOUND LOT. An impound lot owned by or contracting with a unit of
government under §
92.10.
   UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is subject to removal and impoundment
pursuant to §
92.04(B) or M.S. § 169.041 as it may be amended from time to time, but is not a
junk vehicle or an abandoned vehicle.
   UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. Includes a state department or agency, a special purpose
district, and a county, statutory or home rule charter city, or town.
   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of a motor vehicle that are essential to
the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including things such as the motor,
drive train and wheels.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 92.03 VIOLATION TO ABANDON MOTOR VEHICLE.
   Any person who abandons a motor vehicle on any public or private property,
without the consent of the person in control of the property, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty §
10.99
§ 92.04 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Abandoned or junk vehicles. The City Clerk or his or her designee or
any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by the city may
take into custody and impound any abandoned or junk vehicle if the vehicle is
on public property. If the abandoned or junk vehicle is located on private
property, the vehicle shall not be removed or impounded until the provisions of
division (C) below are complied with.
   (B)   Unauthorized vehicles. The City Clerk, or his or her designee or any
peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by the city may
take into custody and impound any unauthorized vehicle under M.S. § 169.041 as
it may be amended from time to time. A vehicle may also be impounded after it
has been left unattended in one of the following public or private locations
for the indicated period of time:
      (1)   In a public location not governed by M.S. § 169.041 as it may be
amended from time to time:
         (a)   On a highway and properly tagged by a peace officer, four hours;
         (b)   Located so as to constitute an accident or traffic hazard to the
traveling public, as determined by a peace officer, immediately; or
         (c)   That is a parking facility or other public property owned or
controlled by a unit of government, properly posted, four hours; or
      (2)   On private property, only with the express permission of the owner
of the property, a resident or other person in control of the premises:
         (a)   That is single-family or duplex residential property,
immediately;
         (b)   That is private, nonresidential property, properly posted,
immediately;
         (c)   That is private, nonresidential property, not posted, 24 hours;
or
         (d)   That is any residential property, properly posted, immediately.
      (3)   If under division (B)(2) of this section, permission is not
granted, then the city shall not remove and impound any vehicle until the
procedure established in division (B)(2) of this section have been followed.
   (C)   If the vehicle is on private property, the City Clerk or his or her
designee or any peace officer employed or whose services are contracted for by
the city may take into custody and impound any abandoned or junk vehicle on
private property only with the permission of the owner of the property, a
resident, or other person in control of the premises. If permission is denied,
the city may declare the existence of the abandoned or junk vehicle to be a
nuisance and proceed to abate the nuisance as provided for in §
94.06. Once the abatement procedure has been completed, the city may apply for
an order from a court of competent jurisdiction authorizing the removal and
impoundment of the vehicle and, after the order has been granted, the city may
then remove and impound the vehicle.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty §
10.99
§ 92.05 SALE; WAITING PERIODS.
   (A)   Sale after 15 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or
sale under §
92.09, 15 days after notice to the owner, if the vehicle is determined to be:
      (1)   A junk vehicle, except that it may have a valid, current
registration plate and still be eligible for disposal or sale under this
subdivision; or
      (2)   An abandoned vehicle.
   (B)   Sale after 45 days. An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or
sale under §
92.09, 45 days after notice to the owner, if the vehicle is determined to be an
unauthorized vehicle.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 92.06 NOTICE OF TAKING AND SALE.
   (A)   Contents; notice given within five days. When an impounded vehicle is
taken into custody, the city or impound lot operator taking it into custody
shall give notice of the taking within five days. The notice shall:
      (1)   Set forth the date and place of the taking; the year, make, model
and serial number of the impounded motor vehicle if the information can be
reasonably obtained; and the place where the vehicle is being held;
      (2)   Inform the owner and any lienholders of their right to reclaim the
vehicle under §
92.07; and
      (3)   State that failure of the owner or lienholders to exercise their
right to reclaim the vehicle and contents within the appropriate time allowed
under §
92.05 shall be deemed a waiver by them of all right, title and interest in the
vehicle and contents and a consent to the transfer of title to and disposal or
sale of the vehicle and contents pursuant to §
92.09.
   (B)   Notice by mail or publication. The notice shall be sent by mail to the
registered owner, if any, of an impounded vehicle and to all readily
identifiable lienholders of record. The department makes this information
available to impound lot operators for notification purposes. If it is
impossible to determine with reasonable certainty the identity and address of
the registered owner and all lienholders, the notice shall be published once in
a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the motor vehicle was
towed from or abandoned. Published notices may be grouped together for
convenience and economy.
   (C)   Unauthorized vehicles; notice. If an unauthorized vehicle remains
unclaimed after 30 days from the date the notice was sent under division (B) of
this section, a second notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the registered owner, if any, of the unauthorized vehicle and to
all readily identifiable lienholders of record.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 92.07 RIGHT TO RECLAIM.
   (A)   Payment of charges. The owner or any lienholder of an impounded
vehicle shall have a right to reclaim the vehicle from the city or impound lot
operator taking it into custody upon payment of all towing and storage charges
resulting from taking the vehicle into custody within 15 or 45 days, as
applicable under §
92.05, after the date of the notice required by §
92.06.
   (B)   Lienholders. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to impair any
lien of a garagekeeper under the laws of this state, or the right of a
lienholder to foreclose. For the purposes of this section, GARAGEKEEPER is an
operator of a parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor vehicle
storage facility, or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair
or maintenance of motor vehicles.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 92.08 OPERATOR’S DEFICIENCY CLAIM; CONSENT TO SALE.
   (A)   Deficiency claim. The nonpublic impound lot operator has a deficiency
claim against the registered owner of the vehicle for the reasonable costs of
services provided in the towing, storage and inspection of the vehicle minus
the proceeds of the sale or auction. The claim for storage costs may not exceed
the costs of:
      (1)   25 days storage for a vehicle described in §
92.05(A); and
      (2)   55 days storage for a vehicle described in §
92.05(B).
   (B)   Implied consent to sale. A registered owner who fails to claim the
impounded vehicle within the applicable time period allowed under §
92.05 is deemed to waive any right to reclaim the vehicle and consents to the
disposal or sale of the vehicle and its contents and transfer of title.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 92.09 DISPOSITION BY IMPOUND LOT.
   (A)   Auction or sale.
      (1)   If an abandoned or unauthorized vehicle and contents taken into
custody by the city or any impound lot is not reclaimed under §
92.07, it may be disposed of or sold at auction or sale when eligible pursuant
to §§
92.06 and
92.07.
      (2)   The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title to dispose of the
vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the vehicle
and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and claims of
ownership. Before a vehicle is issued a new certificate of title, it must
receive a motor vehicle safety check.
   (B)   Unsold vehicles. Abandoned or junk vehicles not sold by the city or
public impound lots pursuant to division (A) of this section shall be disposed
of in accordance with §
92.10.
   (C)   Sale proceeds; public entities. From the proceeds of a sale under this
section by the city or public impound lot of an abandoned or unauthorized motor
vehicle, the city shall reimburse itself for the cost of towing, preserving and
storing the vehicle, and all administrative, notice and publication costs
incurred in handling the vehicle pursuant to this chapter. Any remainder from
the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the owner of the vehicle or entitled
lienholder for 90 days and then shall be deposited in the treasury of the city.
   (D)   Sale proceeds; nonpublic impound lots. The operator of a nonpublic
impound lot may retain any proceeds derived from a sale conducted under the
authority of division (A) of this section. The operator may retain all proceeds
from sale of any personal belongings and contents in the vehicle that were not
claimed by the owner or the owner’s agent before the sale, except that any
suspected contraband or other items that likely would be subject to forfeiture
in a criminal trial must be turned over to the appropriate law enforcement
agency.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 92.10 DISPOSAL AUTHORITY.
   The city may contract with others or may utilize its own equipment and
personnel for the inventory of impounded motor vehicles and abandoned scrap
metal and may utilize its own equipment and personnel for the collection,
storage and transportation of these vehicles and abandoned scrap metal. The
city may utilize its own equipment and personnel only for the collection and
storage of not more than five abandoned or unauthorized vehicles without
advertising for or receiving bids in any 120-day period.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 92.11 CONTRACTS; REIMBURSEMENT BY MPCA.
   (A)   MPCA review and approval. If the city proposes to enter into a
contract with a person licensed by the MPCA pursuant to this section or a
contract pursuant to §
92.10, the MPCA may review the proposed contract before it is entered into by
the city, to determine whether it conforms to the MPCA’s plan for solid waste
management and is in compliance with MPCA rules. A contract that does so
conform may be approved by the MPCA and entered into by the city. Where a
contract has been approved, the MPCA may reimburse the city for the costs
incurred under the contract that have not been reimbursed under §
92.09. Except as otherwise provided in §
92.10, the MPCA shall not approve any contract that has been entered into
without prior notice to and request for bids from all persons duly licensed by
the MPCA to be a party to a disposal contract pursuant to M.S. § 116.07, as it
may be amended from time to time; does not provide for a full performance bond;
or does not provide for total collection and transportation of abandoned motor
vehicles, except that the MPCA may approve a contract covering solely
collection or transportation of abandoned motor vehicles where the MPCA
determines total collection and transportation to be impracticable and where
all other requirements herein have been met and the unit of government, after
proper notice and request for bids, has not received any bid for total
collection and transportation of abandoned motor vehicles.
   (B)   The city may perform work. If the city utilizes its own equipment and
personnel pursuant to its authority under §
92.10, and the use of the equipment and personnel conforms to the MPCA’s plan
for solid waste management and is in compliance with MPCA rules, the city may
be reimbursed by the MPCA for reasonable costs incurred which are not
reimbursed under §
92.09.
   (C)   The city required to contract work. The MPCA may demand that the city
contract for the disposal of abandoned motor vehicles and other scrap metal
pursuant to the MPCA’s plan for solid waste disposal. If the city fails to
contract within 180 days of the demand, the MPCA, through the Department of
Administration and on behalf of the city, may contract with any person duly
licensed by the MPCA for the disposal.
(Ord. 2005-5, passed 9-26-2005)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
   
93.01   Assessable current services
   
93.02   Tree diseases
   
93.03   Repeat nuisance call service fee
§ 93.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice or rubbish removal
from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots adjacent to sidewalks
or from private property; removal or elimination of public health or safety
hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous building, included in
M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.261, as they may amended from time to time;
installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling, street
flushing, light street oiling or other dust treatment of streets; repair of
sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound and
insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property; and the
operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Clerk or other person designated by the
City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all snow, ice, dirt
and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any matter has been
deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The City Clerk or other
designated person shall keep a record showing the cost of removal adjacent to
each separate lot and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Clerk.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property, the City
Clerk shall keep a record of the total cost of the installation or repair
against the property.
   (E)   Repair of sidewalks and alleys.
      (1)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in repair and safe
for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the City Council and on file in the office of the
City Clerk.
      (2)   Inspections; notice. The City Council or its designee shall make
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If it
is found that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe and
in need of repairs, the City Council shall cause a notice to be served, by
registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of
the property, ordering the owner to have the sidewalk or alley repaired and
made safe within 30 days and stating that if the owner fails to do so, the city
will do so and that the expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and if
unpaid it will be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
      (3)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within 30
days after receipt of the notice, the City Clerk shall report the facts to the
City Council and the City Council shall by resolution order the work done by
contract in accordance with law. The City Clerk shall keep a record of the
total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or parcel of property.
   (F)   Personal liability. The owner of property on which or adjacent to
which a current service has been performed shall be personally liable for the
cost of the service. As soon as the service has been completed and the cost
determined, the City Clerk or other designated official shall prepare a bill
and mail it to the owner and thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and
payable at the office of the City Clerk.
   (G)   Damage to public property.
      (1)   Any person driving any vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance
upon any street, road, highway or structure shall be liable for all damages
which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a result of any illegal
operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle, equipment or object or
contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving or moving any vehicle,
equipment, object or contrivance weighing in excess of the maximum weight
permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the owner of the
vehicle, equipment, object or contrivance, but is operating, driving or moving
it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then the owner and the
driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any damage.
      (2)   Any person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by
that act damages any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof,
which amount shall be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67,
as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk
shall list the total unpaid charges for each type of current service and
charges under this section against each separate lot or parcel to which they
are attributable under this section. The City Council may then spread the
charges against property benefitted as a special assessment under the authority
of M.S. § 429.101 as it may be amended from time to time and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the county auditor and collection along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten,
as the City Council may determine in each case.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty §
10.99
§ 93.02 TREE DISEASES.
   (A)   Trees constituting nuisance declared. The following are public
nuisances whenever they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch elm to disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau
or which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including branches, stumps,
firewood or other elm material from which the bark has not been removed and
burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the oak wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the
designated officer constitutes a hazard, including but not limited to logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide; or
      (5)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease.
   (B)   Abatement of nuisance. It is unlawful for any person to permit any
public nuisance as defined in division (A) of this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The City Council may by
resolution order the nuisance abated. Before action is taken on that
resolution, the City Council shall publish notice of its intention to meet to
consider taking action to abate the nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to
the affected property owner and published once no less than one week prior to
the meeting. The notice shall state the time and place of the meeting, the
street affected, action proposed, the estimated cost of the abatement, and the
proposed basis of assessment, if any, of costs. At the hearing or adjournment
thereof, the City Council shall hear any property owner with reference to the
scope and desirability of the proposed project. The City Council shall
thereafter adopt a resolution confirming the original resolution with
modifications, as it considers desirable, and provide for the doing of the work
by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   Record of costs. The City Clerk shall keep a record of the costs of
abatement done under this section for all work done for which assessments are
to be made, stating and certifying the description of the land, lots, parcels
involved and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   Unpaid charges. On or before September 1 of each year, the City Clerk
shall list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate
lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this section. The City
Council may then spread the charges or any portion thereof against the property
involved as a special assessment as authorized by M.S. § 429.101 as it may be
amended from time to time, and other pertinent statutes for certification to
the county auditor and collection the following year along with the current
taxes.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Plant protection and export certification, see M.S. §§ 18G.01 et seq.
§ 93.03 REPEAT NUISANCE CALL SERVICE FEE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to protect the public safety,
health and welfare and to prevent and abate repeat service response calls by
the city to the same property or location for nuisance service calls, as
defined herein, which prevalent police or public safety services to other
residents of the city. It is the intent of the city by the adoption of this
section to impose and collect service call fees from the owner or occupant, or
both, of property to which city officials must repeatedly respond for any
repeat nuisance event or activity that generates extraordinary costs to the
city. The repeat nuisance service call fee is intended to cover that cost over
and above the cost of providing normal law or code enforcement services and
police protection city wide.
   (B)   Scope and application. This section shall apply to all owners and
occupants of private property that is the subject, or location of, the repeat
nuisance service call by the city. This section shall apply to any repeat
nuisance service calls as set forth herein made by a peace officer, part-time
peace officer, community service officer, animal control officers and code
enforcement technicians.
   (C)   Definition of nuisance call or similar conduct. The term NUISANCE
SERVICE CALL shall mean any activity, conduct, or condition occurring upon
private property within the city which:
      (1)   Unreasonably annoys, injures or endangers the safety, health,
morals, comfort or repose of any member of the public;
      (2)   Or will, or will tend to, alarm, anger or disturb others or provoke
breach of the peace, to which the city is required to respond, including, but
not limited to the following:
         (a)   Any activity, conduct, or condition deemed as a public nuisance
under any provision of the city code;
         (b)   Any activity, conduct, or condition in violation of any
provision of the zoning regulations;
         (c)   Any conduct, activity or condition constituting a violation of
Minnesota State laws prohibiting or regulating prostitution, gambling,
controlled substances, use of firearms; and
         (d)   Any conduct, activity, or condition constituting disorderly
conduct under M.S. Chapter 609, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Repeat nuisance service call fee. The city may impose a repeat
nuisance service call fee upon the owner or occupant of private property if the
city has rendered services or responded to the property on three or more
occasions within a period of 365 days in response to or for the abatement of
nuisance conduct, activity, or condition of the same or similar kind. The
repeat nuisance service call fee under this section shall be an amount as set
forth in the current city fee schedule. All repeat nuisance service call fees
imposed and charged against the owner or occupant under this section shall be
deemed delinquent 30 days after the city’s mailing a billing statement
therefore. Delinquent payments are subject to a 10% late penalty of the amount
due.
   (E)   Notice. No repeat nuisance service call fee may be imposed against an
owner or occupant of property without first providing the owner or occupant
with written notice of the prior nuisance service calls prior to the latest
nuisance service call rendered by the city upon which the fee is imposed. The
written notice shall:
      (1)   State the nuisance conduct, activity or condition that is or has
occurred or is maintained or permitted on the property, the dates of the
nuisance conduct, activity or condition;
      (2)   State that the owner or occupant may be subject to a repeat
nuisance call service fee if a third nuisance service call is rendered to the
property for the same nuisance, in addition to the city’s right to seek other
legal remedies or actions for abatement of the nuisance or compliance with the
law; and
      (3)   Be served personally or by U.S. mail upon the owner or occupant at
the last known address.
   (F)   Right to appeal nuisance service call fee.
      (1)   Upon the imposition of a repeat nuisance service call fee, the city
shall inform the owner or occupant of his or her right to a hearing on the
alleged repeat nuisance service calls. The owner or occupant upon whom the fee
is imposed may request a hearing by serving upon the City Clerk within five
business days of the mailing of the fee invoice, inclusive of the day the
invoice is mailed, a written request for hearing. The matter shall be heard by
the hearing office within 14 days of the date of the owner’s or occupant’s
request for hearing.
      (2)   The hearing shall be conducted in an informal manner and the
Minnesota Rules of Civil Procedure and Rules of Evidence shall not be strictly
applied. The hearing need not be transcribed, but may be transcribed at the
sole expense of the party who requests the transcription. After considering all
evidence submitted, the hearing officer shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions on the issue of whether the city responded to or rendered services
for repeat nuisance service calls of the same or similar kind on three or more
occasions within a 365-day period. The findings and conclusions shall be served
upon the owner or occupant by U.S. mail within five days of the notice of
hearing.
      (3)   An owner’s or occupant’s right to a hearing shall be deemed waived
if the owner or occupant fails to serve a written request for hearing as
required herein or fails to appear at the scheduled hearing date. Upon waiver
of the right to hearing, or upon the hearing officer’s written findings of fact
and conclusions that the repeat nuisance call service fee is warranted
hereunder, the owner or occupant shall immediately pay the fee imposed.
   (G)   Legal remedies nonexclusive. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to limit the city’s other available legal remedies for any violation
of the law which may constitute a nuisance service call hereunder, including
criminal, civil, injunctive or others.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01   Public nuisance
   
94.02   Public nuisance affecting health
   
94.03   Public nuisance affecting morals and decency
   
94.04   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
94.05   Duties of city officers
   
94.06   Abatement
   
94.07   Recovery of cost
§ 94.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally
does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is
a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage any public
highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law, §§
94.02,
94.03 or
94.04, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty §
10.99
§ 94.02 PUBLIC NUISANCE AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   Ponding, or pooling of stagnant water, caused by owners or occupant’s
change in grade to land;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, excepting the accumulations created in the
operation of farming, or through composting as defined in M.S. § 18C.005,
Subd.6a, when the compost is at least 20 feet from all property lines and is
limited in size to six feet in height and 36 square feet in surface area;
   (F)   Refuse or other debris;
   (G)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (H)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (I)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property, excepting in areas not served by city water and city sewer;
   (J)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (K)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (L)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty §
10.99
§ 94.03 PUBLIC NUISANCE AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized by federal, state or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of in
violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are permitted to resort
for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor, or where intoxicating liquor
is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and
other property used for maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty §
10.99
§ 94.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All obnoxious noises in violation of Minn. Rules Chapter 7030, as
amended from time to time, which are hereby incorporated by reference into this
code;
   (E)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharging of the
exhaust of any stationary internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all terrain vehicle, snowmobile or any recreational device
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
   (F)   The using or operation or permitting the using or operation of any
radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph, paging system, machine or
other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a distinctly and loudly
audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person
nearby. (Operation of any device referred to above between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at the property line
of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a distance of 50
feet if the source is located outside a structure or building shall be prima
facie evidence of violation of this section.)
   (G)   The participation in a party or gathering of people giving rise to
noise which disturbs the peace, quiet or repose of the occupants of adjoining
or other property;
   (H)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds, including scavenging or treasure
hunting with the aid of electronic or motorized devices, except under
conditions as are permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (I)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (J)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (K)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (L)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (M)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (N)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (O)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (P)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (Q)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (R)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (S)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (T)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (U)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty §
10.99
§ 94.05 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Police Department or Sheriff, if the city has at the time no
Police Department, shall enforce the provisions relating to nuisances.
   (B)   Any peace officer shall have the power to inspect private premises and
take all reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance of
public nuisances.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 94.06 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer on the owner of record or occupant of the premises either in
person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises is not occupied, the
owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or occupant refuses to
accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be served by posting it
on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer determines that a public nuisance
is being maintained or exists on the premises in the city, the officer shall
notify in writing the owner of record or occupant of the premises of the fact
and order that the nuisance be terminated or abated. The notice of violation
shall specify the steps to be taken to abate the nuisance and the time within
which the nuisance is to be abated. If the notice of violation is not complied
with within the time specified, the officer shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section will permit a continuing
nuisance to unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with
summary enforcement, the officer shall determine that a public nuisance exists
or is being maintained on premises in the city and that delay in abatement of
the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health, safety or welfare. The
officer shall notify in writing the occupant or owner of the premises of the
nature of the nuisance and of the city’s intention to seek summary enforcement
and the time and place of the City Council meeting to consider the question of
summary enforcement. The City Council shall determine whether or not the
condition identified in the notice to the owner or occupant is a nuisance,
whether public health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by
delay in abatement required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A)
of this section, and may order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or
abated. If the nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated, the City
Council may order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition that
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 94.07 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk or other official shall
prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount
shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. If the nuisance is a public health or safety hazard on
private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public sidewalks, the
growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled portion of streets,
or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk shall, on or before
September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the total unpaid
charges along with all other the charges as well as other charges for current
services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges against the property
under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to the county
auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in each
case.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005)
CHAPTER 95: WEEDS
Section
   
95.01   Short title
   
95.02   Jurisdiction
   
95.03   Definitions; exclusions
   
95.04   Owners responsible for trimming, removal and the like
   
95.05   Filing complaint
   
95.06   Notice of violations
   
95.07   Appeals
   
95.08   Abatement by city
   
95.09   Liability
§ 95.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be cited as the weed regulations.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 95.02 JURISDICTION.
   The weed regulations shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended or repealed.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 95.03 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the weed regulations, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated
city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance
violation.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES and RANK VEGETATION. Includes but is not limited to the
following:
         (1)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include but not be
limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn (rhamus), Bur Cucumber (sicyos), Canada
Thistle (cirsium arvense), Corncockle (agrostemma githago), Cressleaf Groundsel
(senecio glabellus), Curly Dock (rumex crispus), Dodder (cuscuta), Field
Bindweed (convolvulus arvensis), French Weed (Thlaspi arvense), Hairy Whitetop
(cardavia pubescens), Hedge Bindweed (calystegia sepium), Hoary Cress (cardaria
draba), Horsenettle (solanum carolinese), Johnsongrass (sorghum halepense),
Leafy Spurge (euphorbia esula), Mile-A-Minute Weed (polygonum perfoliatum),
Musk Thistle (carduus nutaans), Oxeye Daisy (chrysanthemum leucanthemum),
Perennial Sowthistle (sonchus arvensis), Poison Hemlock (conium maculatum),
Purple Loosestrife (lythrun salicavia), Quackgrass (agropyron), Russian
Knapweed (acroptilon repens), Russian Thistle (salsola tragus), Serrated
Tussock (nassella trichotoma), Shatter Cane (sorghum bicolor), Sorghum (sorghum
bicolor), Wild Carrot (daucuscarota), Wild Garlic (allium vineale), Wild
Mustard (brassica kaber), Wild Onion (allium canadense), Wild Parsnip
(pastinaca sativa);
         (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
         (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (4)   Any weeds, grass or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches;
         (5)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants; and
         (6)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants
or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants that have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 95.04 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting, or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of 12 inches in height.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty §
10.99
§ 95.05 FILING COMPLAINT.
   (A)   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of the weed regulations shall make a written complaint signed, dated
and filed with the City Clerk.
   (B)   If the city makes the complaint, an employee, officer or Council
member of the city shall file the complaint in all respects as set out above.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 95.06 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this chapter, a person designated by the City Council shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding the
condition. The City Council, upon concluding that there is a probable belief
that this chapter has been violated, shall forward written notification in the
form of a destruction order to the property owner or the person occupying the
property as that information is contained within the records of the City Clerk
or any other city agency. The notice shall be served in writing by certified
mail. The notice shall provide that within seven regular business days after
the receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be removed by the
property owner or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the City Clerk.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the City Clerk or others is deemed filed on
the date of posting to the U.S. postal service.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 95.07 APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of
objections with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding
weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City
Council.
      (2)   It is the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate that the
matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants or crops or is not
otherwise in violation of this chapter, and should not be subject to
destruction under the chapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 95.08 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
destruction order within seven regular business days and has not filed a notice
within 48 hours to the City Clerk of an intent to appeal, the City Council may
employ the services of city employees or outside contractors and remove the
weeds to conform to this chapter by all lawful means.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005)
§ 95.09 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting or
destruction of weeds as defined by the weed regulations.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including but not limited to court costs, attorney’s
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals that may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for expenses and
costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 9-26-2005) Penalty §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: PUBLIC BATHING BEACHES
Section
   
96.01   Definition
   
96.02   Hours posted
   
96.03   Use of facilities
   
96.04   Water craft prohibited
   
96.05   Bathing and swimming prohibited
§ 96.01 DEFINITION.
   A PUBLIC BATHING BEACH, as the term is used in this chapter shall be taken
to mean any public land, road or highway adjoining public waters, specifically
set aside and designated as public beaches by the placement of signs indicating
the boundaries thereof within the city.
(Prior Code, § 409.01)
§ 96.02 HOURS POSTED.
   (A)   No person or persons shall in any way use a public bathing beach for
swimming or bathing, nor shall any person or persons loiter about or congregate
on any public bathing beach except during the hours activities are permitted.
   (B)   The hours of permitted activities shall be posted at the entrance or
at conspicuous places on each public bathing beach.
(Prior Code, § 409.02) Penalty §
10.99
§ 96.03 USE OF FACILITIES.
   No person shall in any manner utilize or use any facilities installed
incidental to a public bathing beach, including but not limited to docks,
diving boards, or rafts except during the hours as posted activities are
permitted, except in case of an emergency.
(Prior Code, § 409.03) Penalty §
10.99
§ 96.04 WATER CRAFT PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a water craft within a water area which has been
marked off or set aside as a swimming or bathing area without first obtaining
the written permission of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 409.04) Penalty §
10.99
§ 96.05 BATHING AND SWIMMING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any public property as a bathing
beach or for purposes of swimming which is not posted in compliance with the
provisions herein.
(Prior Code, § 409.05) Penalty §
10.99
CHAPTER 97: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
97.01   Unloading on street or sidewalk
   
97.02   Street and sidewalk obstruction
   
97.03   Materials on street or sidewalk
Right-Of-Way Construction Regulations
   
97.20   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
97.21   Definitions and adoption of rules by reference
   
97.22   Permit requirement
   
97.23   Permit applications
   
97.24   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
97.25   Permit fees
   
97.26   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
97.27   Supplementary applications
   
97.28   Denial of permit
   
97.29   Installation requirements
   
97.30   Inspection
   
97.31   Work done without a permit
   
97.32   Supplementary notification
   
97.33   Revocation of permits
   
97.34   Mapping data; information required
   
97.35   Location of facilities
   
97.36   Damage to other facilities
   
97.37   Right-of-way vacation
   
97.38   Indemnification and liability
   
97.39   Abandoned facilities; removal of abandoned facilities
   
97.40   Appeal
   
97.41   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.01 UNLOADING ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall unload any heavy material in the streets of the city by
throwing or letting the material fall upon the pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public way, without first placing some sufficient protection
over the pavement.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.02 STREET AND SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTION.
   No person shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public way
within the city by erecting thereon any fence or building, or permitting any
fence or building to remain thereon. Each day that any fence or building is
permitted to remain upon the public way shall constitute a separate offense.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.03 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   No person shall encumber any street or sidewalk. No owner, occupant, or
person having the care of any building or lot of land, bordering on any street
or sidewalk, shall permit it to be encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans,
articles, or substances of any kind, so as to interfere with the free and
unobstructed use thereof.
Penalty, see §
10.99
RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 97.20 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the city hereby elects pursuant to
this chapter to manage rights-of-ways within its jurisdiction.
§ 97.21 DEFINITIONS AND ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   Minn. Rules Ch. 7819, as it may be amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted by reference and is incorporated into this code as if set out in full.
The definitions included in Minn. Rules part 7819.0100 subps. 1 through 23, as
it may be amended from time to time, are the definitions of the terms used in
the following provisions of this subchapter.
§ 97.22 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate permit from the city.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of- way described in the permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit.  An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless the person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, and a new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.1000 subp. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding division (B) of this
section, the city shall establish and impose a delay penalty for unreasonable
delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or restoration. The
delay penalty shall be established from time to time by the City Council.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the Clerk, Utilities
Superintendent or other person designated by the Council.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.23 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit shall contain, and will be considered complete only
upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
      (1)   Each permittee’s name, gopher one-call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or
other person designated by the Council;
         (b)    Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees, and placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees, and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities, and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other
person designated by the Council be notified 30 days in advance of cancellation
of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
         (e)    Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the Council
in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry out the
purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate required
to be filed under M.S. § 300.06, as it may be amended from time to time as
recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State.
      (6)   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have the certificate
from the Commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees as established from time to time by the City Council,
estimated restoration costs and other management costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of the applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-
way or any emergency actions taken by the city; or
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges as established from time to time by
the City Council, if applicable.
§ 97.24 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by
the Council shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other person
designated by the Council may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance of
the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to protect the
health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and
its current use.
§ 97.25 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees shall be in an amount established from time to time by the City
Council.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction Permit Fee.  The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover the city management costs.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay those fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Non-refundable. Permit fees as established by the City Council that
were paid for a permit that the Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other person
designated by the Council has revoked for a breach as stated in §
97.33 are not refundable.
   (E)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (F)   All permit fees shall be established consistent with the provisions of
Minn. Rules part 7819.100, as it may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under this
subchapter.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. The permittee shall patch its own work. The
city may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to
restore the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, the
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If following
the restoration, the pavement settles due to the permittee's improper
backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing,
all costs associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it may be required at the time of application for an excavation permit
to post a construction performance bond or a deposit in accordance with the
provisions of Minn. Rules part 7819.3000, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minn. Rules part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the
Council shall have the authority to prescribe the manner and extent of the
restoration, and may do so in written procedures of general application or on a
case-by-case basis.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by the permittee or its agents. The
permittee upon notification from the Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other
person designated by the Council, shall correct all restoration work to the
extent necessary, using the method required by the Clerk, Utilities
Superintendent or other person designated by the Council. The work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the
Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the Council, not
including days during which work cannot be done because of circumstances
constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as unseasonal or
unreasonable under this subchapter.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the Clerk, Utilities
Superintendent or other person designated by the Council, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the Clerk,
Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the Council, the Clerk,
Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the Council at his or
her option may do the work. In that event the permittee shall pay to the city,
within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If the
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights under the
construction performance bond.
   (F)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee as
established from time to time by the City Council. However, the right-of-way
user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation fee shall not
include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
§ 97.27 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area
make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
§ 97.28 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
§ 97.29 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of- way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to time and other applicable
local requirements, in so far as they are not inconsistent with M.S. §§ 237.162
and 237.163, as they may be amended from time to time.
§ 97.30 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules part 7819.1300, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Site inspection. The permittee shall make the work-site available to
city personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other person
designated by the Council.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or
other person designated by the Council may order the immediate cessation of any
work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety, or well-being of
the public.
      (2)   The Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by
the Council may issue an order to the permittee for any work which does not
conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards, conditions,
or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the violation will be
cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after issuance of the
order, the permittee shall present proof to the Clerk, Utilities Superintendent
or other person designated by the Council that the violation has been
corrected. If proof has not been presented within the required time, the Clerk,
Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the Council may revoke
the permit pursuant to §
97.33.
§ 97.31 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations.
      (1)   Each person with facilities in the right-of-way shall immediately
notify the city of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be
an emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the owner shall apply for the necessary permits,
pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements
necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for the actions it
took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
city will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by this code,
deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-
way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
§ 97.32 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the Clerk,
Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the Council of the
accurate information as soon as this information is known.
§ 97.33 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
the permittee shall include, but shall not be limited, to the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittees control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
97.30.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit the city shall make
a written demand upon the permittee to remedy that violation. The demand shall
state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the permit. A
substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its discretion, to
place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate and remedy the
breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach.  Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, the permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. The permittee's failure to
so contact the city, or the permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan,
or the permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
§ 97.34 MAPPING DATA; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Each permittee shall provide mapping information required by the city in
accordance with Minn. Rules parts 7819.4000 and 7819.4100, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 97.35 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Compliance required. Placement, location, and relocation of facilities
must comply with applicable laws, and with Minn. Rules parts 7819.3100,
7819.5000 and 7819.5100, as they may be amended from time to time, to the
extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. The city may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
   (C)   Limitation of space.  To protect the health, safety, and welfare or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the Clerk,
Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the Council shall have
the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional facilities
within the right-of-way. In making those decisions, the Clerk, Utilities
Superintendent or other person designated by the Council shall strive to the
extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-
of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest,
the public's needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the
right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the
protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and future city plans
for public improvements and development projects which have been determined to
be in the public interest.
§ 97.36 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move facilities to protect it, the Clerk, Utilities
Superintendent or other person designated by the Council shall notify the local
representative as early as is reasonably possible and placed as required. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within 30 days from the date of billing. Each facility owner shall be
responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of- way which
it or its facilities damages. Each facility owner shall be responsible for the
cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant caused
during the city's response to an emergency occasioned by that owner’s
facilities.
§ 97.37 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way which contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules part 7819.3200, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 97.38 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minn. Rules 7819.1250, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 97.39 ABANDONED FACILITIES; REMOVAL OF ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way shall remove
them from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with other right-of-way
repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement is waived by the
Clerk, Utilities Superintendent or other person designated by the Council.
§ 97.40 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that has been denied registration; has been denied a
permit; has had permit revoked; or believes that the fees imposed are invalid,
may have the denial, revocation, or fee imposition reviewed, upon written
request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act on a timely written
request at its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision by the City Council
affirming the denial, revocation, or fee as imposition will be in writing and
supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
§ 97.41 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittees or registrants rights are subject to the regulatory and police
powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect
the health, safety and welfare of the public.
CHAPTER 98: CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITES AND CHEMICAL DUMP SITES
Section
   
98.01   General provisions
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Declaration of site and contents as a public health nuisance
   
98.04   Law enforcement action
   
98.05   Seizure of property
   
98.06   Action by city building official
   
98.07   Site owner’s responsibility to act
   
98.08   Site owner’s responsibility for costs
   
98.09   City action and recovery of costs
   
98.10   Recovery of costs from persons causing damage
   
98.11   Site owner and address
   
98.12   Suspension of residential rental license
   
98.13   Authorized removal of postings
   
98.14   Entry into or onto site
   
98.15   Removal of personal property from the site
§ 98.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to reduce public exposure to health
risks where law enforcement officers have determined that hazardous chemicals
or residue from a suspected clandestine drug lab site or associated dumpsite
may exist. Professional reports, based on assessments, testing and
investigations, show that chemicals used in the production of illicit drugs can
condense, penetrate, and contaminate surfaces, furnishings, and equipment of
surrounding structures.
      (2)   The City Council finds that the sites, and the personal property
within the sites, may contain suspected chemicals and residues that place
people, particularly children or adults of child bearing age, at risk when
exposed through inhabiting or visiting the site or using or being exposed to
contaminated personal property.
   (B)   Interpretation and application.
      (1)   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, the
provisions herein shall be construed to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
      (2)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are
either more or less restrictive to the public than comparable provisions
imposed by any other law, ordinance, statute, or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or
requirements on the public shall prevail.
      (3)   Should any court of competent jurisdiction declare any section or
division of this chapter to be invalid, the decision shall not affect the
validity of the chapter as a whole or any part thereof, other than the
provision declared invalid.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD. Any person less than 18 years of age.
   CHEMICAL DUMPSITE. Any place or area where chemicals or other waste
materials used in a clandestine drug lab operation have been located.
   CITY. The City of Harris, Minnesota.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB OPERATION. The unlawful manufacture or attempt to
manufacture a controlled substance.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE. Any place or area where law enforcement has
determined that conditions associated with an unlawful clandestine drug lab
operation exist. A CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITE may include dwellings, accessory
buildings, structures or units, a chemical dump site, a vehicle, boat, trailer
or other appliance or any other area or location.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug, substance or immediate precursor in M.S. §
152.02, Schedules I through V, as they may be amended from time to time,
together with any amendments or modifications thereto. The term shall not
include distilled spirits, wine, malt beverages, intoxicating liquors or
tobacco.
   HOUSEHOLD HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste generated from a clandestine drug lab
operation.
   MANUFACTURE, IN PLACES OTHER THAN A PHARMACY. Includes the production,
cultivation, quality control, and standardization, by mechanical, physical,
chemical or pharmaceutical means, and the packing, repacking, tableting,
encapsulating, labeling, relabeling, or filling of drugs.
   OWNER. Any person(s), firm(s), corporation(s) or other entity who or which
owns, in whole or in part, the land, building, structure, vehicle, boat,
trailer or other location associated with a clandestine drug lab site or
chemical dump site.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 98.03 DECLARATION OF SITE AND CONTENTS AS A PUBLIC HEALTH NUISANCE.
   All dwellings, accessory structures, buildings, vehicles, boats, trailers,
personal property, adjacent property or other locations, associated with a
clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site are potentially unsafe due to
health hazards and are hereby declared to be a public health nuisance.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 98.04 LAW ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   If law enforcement authorities determine the existence of a clandestine drug
lab site or chemical dumpsite, the site, and all personal property therein,
shall be declared a public health nuisance. Law enforcement authorities who
identify conditions associated with a clandestine drug lab site or chemical
dump site which may place neighbors, the visiting public, or present and future
occupants of the site at risk for exposure to harmful contaminants and other
associated conditions are authorized to take the following action:
   (A)   Promptly notify the city building official, child protection, public
health authorities and the appropriate enforcement division of the drug
enforcement administration of the U.S. Justice Department of the location of
the site, and the owner if known, of the conditions found;
   (B)   Treat, store, transport or dispose of all household hazardous waste
found at the site in a manner consistent with State Department of Health,
Minnesota Pollution Control and County Health Department rules and regulations;
   (C)   Issue a temporary declaration of public health nuisance for the
affected site and post a copy of the declaration on all doorway entrances to
the site or, in the case of bare land, post the declaration in several
conspicuous places on the property. This temporary declaration of public health
nuisance issued by law enforcement shall expire after the city building
official inspects the site and determines the appropriateness of issuing a
permanent declaration of public health nuisance;
   (D)   Notify all persons occupying the site that a temporary declaration of
public health nuisance has been issued;
   (E)   Require all persons occupying the site to immediately vacate the site,
remove all pets from the site, and not return without written authorization
from the city building official;
   (F)   Notify all occupants vacating the site that all personal property at
the site may be contaminated with dangerous chemical residue; and
   (G)   Put locks on each doorway entrance to the site to prohibit people from
entering the site without authorization after all occupants of the site have
vacated. The obligation to promptly notify the persons and organizations
mentioned above may be delayed to accomplish appropriate law enforcement
objectives, but only to the extent that public health and child protection
responsibilities are not unnecessarily compromised.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 98.05 SEIZURE OF PROPERTY.
   When the clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site is inside a
vehicle, boat, trailer or other form of moveable personal property, law
enforcement authorities shall immediately seize it and not allow it to be
transported except to a more secure location. In these circumstances, all other
requirements of this chapter shall be followed as closely as possible given the
specific type of property in which the site is discovered.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 98.06 ACTION BY CITY BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Inspection and declaration of nuisance. Within 48 hours of
notification that law enforcement authorities have determined the existence of
a clandestine drug lab site or chemical dumpsite, the city building official
shall inspect the site to determine the appropriate scope of a permanent
declaration of public health nuisance. Based on the results of the inspection,
the city building official may then promptly issue a permanent declaration of
public health nuisance and a do not enter – unsafe to occupy order for the
affected site to replace the temporary declaration issued and posted by law
enforcement. A copy of the permanent declaration and order shall be posted on
all doorway entrances to the site or, in the case of bare land, shall be posted
in several conspicuous places on the property.
   (B)   Abatement order. After the permanent declaration of public health
nuisance has been issued and posted, the city building official shall send
written notice to the site owner ordering abatement of the public health
nuisance. The abatement order shall include the following information:
      (1)   A copy of the declaration of public health nuisance and do not
enter – unsafe to occupy order;
      (2)   Information about the potentially hazardous condition of the site;
      (3)   Notification of suspension of the site’s rental license if
applicable;
      (4)   A summary of the site owner’s and occupant’s responsibilities under
this chapter; and
      (5)   Information that may help the owner locate appropriate services
necessary to abate the public health nuisance.
   (C)   Notice to concerned parties. The building official shall also mail a
copy of the permanent declaration of public health nuisance, a copy of this
chapter, and a notification of the suspension of the site’s rental licensees,
if applicable, to the following concerned parties at their last known address:
      (1)   Occupants or residents of the site if the identities of the persons
are known;
      (2)   Neighbors in proximity to the site who may be reasonably affected
by the conditions found;
      (3)   The City Clerk;
      (4)   The County Sheriffs Department;
      (5)   The appropriate enforcement division of the drug enforcement
administration of the U.S. Justice Department; and
      (6)   Other city, state and local authorities, such as the City Water
Department, the State Pollution Control Agency, the State Department of Health,
and the Department of Natural Resources which are known to have public and
protection responsibilities that are applicable to the situation.
   (D)   Modification or removal of declaration. The city building official is
authorized to modify or remove the declaration of public health nuisance after
the building official receives documentation from a city approved environmental
hazard testing and cleaning firm stating that the suspected health and safety
risks, including those to neighbors and potential dwelling occupants, either do
not exist or have been sufficiently abated or corrected to justify amendment or
removal of the declaration.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 98.07 SITE OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY TO ACT.
   (A)   Within ten business days of the date the abatement order is mailed to
the owner of the site, the owner shall accomplish the following:
      (1)   Provide the city building official with written notification:
         (a)   The owner has confirmed that all persons and their pets have
vacated the site;
         (b)   Of the name(s) of all children who the owner believes were
residing at the site during the time period the clandestine drug lab or
chemical dump site is suspected to have been at the site; and
         (c)   The site will remain vacated and secured until the public health
nuisance is completely abated as required by this chapter.
      (2)   Contract with one or more city approved environmental hazard
testing and cleaning firms to conduct the following work in accordance with the
most current State Department of Health guidelines:
         (a)   A detailed on-site assessment of the extent of contamination at
the site and the contamination of the personal property therein;
         (b)   Soil testing of the site and testing of all property and soil in
proximity to the site which the environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm
determines may have been affected by the conditions found at the site;
         (c)   A complete clean up of the site (including but not limited to
the clean up or removal of plumbing, ventilation systems, fixtures and
contaminated soil) or a demolition of the site and a complete clean up of the
demolished site;
         (d)   A complete clean up, or disposal at an approved dump site, of
all personal property in the site;
         (e)   A complete clean up of all property and soil in proximity to the
site which is found to have been affected by the conditions found at the site;
and
         (f)   Remediation testing and follow-up testing, including but not
limited to testing of the ventilation system and plumbing, to determine that
all health risks are sufficiently reduced, according to State Department of
Health guidelines, to allow safe human occupancy and use of the site and use of
the personal property therein and of all property and soil in proximity to the
site.
      (3)   Provide the city building official with the identity of the testing
and cleaning firm with which the owner has contracted for abatement of the
public health nuisance as required above; and
      (4)   Sign an agreement with the city building official establishing a
clean up schedule. The schedule shall establish reasonable deadlines for
completing all actions required by this chapter for abatement of the public
health nuisance. In determining appropriate deadlines, the city building
official shall consider practical limitations and the availability of
contractors in approving the schedule for clean up.
   (B)   (1)   The site owner must meet all deadlines established on the clean
up schedule.
      (2)   Also, pursuant to the deadlines established by the clean up
schedule, the site owner is required to provide the city building official with
written documentation of the clean up process, including a signed statement
from a city approved environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm that the
site, all personal property therein and all property and soil in proximity to
the site, is safe for human occupancy and use and that the clean up was
conducted in accordance with the most current State Department of Health
guidelines.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005) Penalty §
10.99
§ 98.08 SITE OWNER’S RESPONSIBILITY FOR COSTS.
   The site owner shall be responsible for all costs, including those of the
city, of dealing with and abating the public health nuisance, including
contractor’s fees and the city’s costs for services performed in association
with the clandestine drug lab site or chemical dump site clean up. The city’s
costs may also include, but shall not be limited to:
   (A)   Posting of the site;
   (B)   Notification of affected parties;
   (C)   Securing the site, providing limited access to the site, and
prosecution of unauthorized persons found at the site;
   (D)   Expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the assessment
process;
   (E)   Laboratory fees;
   (F)   Clean up services;
   (G)   Administrative fees;
   (H)   Legal fees; and
   (I)    Other associated costs.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005) Penalty §
10.99
§ 98.09 CITY ACTION AND RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   (1)   If the building owner fails to comply with any of the
requirements of this chapter, the city building official is authorized to take
all reasonable actions necessary to abate the public health nuisance including,
but not limited to, contracting with a city approved environmental hazard
testing and cleaning firm to conduct the work outlined in §
98.07 of this chapter.
      (2)   The building official is also authorized to provide a copy of the
declaration of public health nuisance to the lien and/or mortgage holders of
the affected site to help assure that persons with interest in the site have
access to information about the declaration of public health nuisance.
   (B)   If the costs to clean the site or to clean the personal property at
the site are prohibitively high in relation to the value of the site or the
personal property, the city is authorized to remove or demolish the site,
structure or building and/or dispose of the personal property therein. These
actions shall be taken in accordance with the provisions of M.S. Chapter 463,
as it may be amended from time to time, together with any amendments or
modifications thereto.
   (C)   If the city abates the public health nuisance, in addition to any
other legal remedy, the city shall be entitled to recover all of its out of
pocket costs plus an additional 25% of the costs for administrative and legal
expense. The city may recover costs by civil action against the owner of the
site or by assessing the costs as a special charge against the site as taxes
and special assessments are certified and collected pursuant to M.S. § 429.101,
as it may be amended from time to time, or according to the provisions of M.S.
Chapter 463, as it may be amended from time to time, together with any
amendments or modifications thereto.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 98.10 RECOVERY OF COSTS FROM PERSONS CAUSING DAMAGE.
   No provisions of this chapter are intended to limit the site owner’s,
residents’ or the city’s right to recover costs incurred under this chapter
from either the persons contributing to the public health nuisance, such as the
operators of the clandestine drug lab, and/or from other lawful sources.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 98.11 SITE OWNER AND ADDRESS.
   When the site is real property and the owner or the address of the owner of
the site is unknown, the owner and the owner’s address is deemed to be that of
the property’s taxpayer’s name and address as that information is maintained by
the county auditor’s office. When the site is a vehicle, boat or trailer and
the owner or the address of the owner of the site is unknown, the owner and the
owner’s address is deemed to be that of the person on file as the owner on the
current or most recent title to the vehicle, boat or trailer.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 98.12 SUSPENSION OF RESIDENTIAL RENTAL LICENSE.
   Upon issuance of a permanent declaration of public health nuisance, any
residential rental license issued by the city for the site, or any part
thereof, is hereby declared to be immediately suspended pending full compliance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 98.13 AUTHORIZED REMOVAL OF POSTINGS.
   It is unlawful for any person, except authorized city personnel, to remove a
temporary or permanent declaration of public health nuisance and/or do not
enter – unsafe to occupy order from a chemical dumpsite or a clandestine drug
lab site.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005) Penalty §
10.99
§ 98.14 ENTRY INTO OR ONTO SITE.
   While a declaration of public health nuisance for an affected site is in
effect and has been posted at the site, no persons are permitted to be inside
the site, or on the site property without prior written consent of the city
building official or as otherwise authorized by this chapter. To confirm
compliance with this chapter and to execute their duties under this chapter,
law enforcement officers, the city building official, and any persons
designated by the building official, may enter onto the site property or enter
into the site at any time while a declaration of public health nuisance is in
effect for the site.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005)
§ 98.15 REMOVAL OF PERSONAL PROPERTY FROM THE SITE.
   While a declaration of public health nuisance for an affected site is in
effect and has been posted at the site, no personal property may be removed
from the site without prior written consent from the city building official.
Consent to remove personal property shall only be granted at the reasonable
discretion of the building official, and only in cases of hardship after:
   (A)   A city approved environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm has
advised the city, in writing, that the item(s) of personal property can be
sufficiently cleaned to remove all harmful contamination; and
   (B)   The owner of the personal property agrees in writing:
      (1)   The owner is aware of the danger of using the contaminated
property;
      (2)   The owner will thoroughly clean the property to remove all
contamination before the property is used; and
      (3)   The owner releases and agrees to indemnify the city, its staff, and
the City Council from all liability to the owner and/or third persons for
injuries or damages caused, or alleged to have been caused, by the contaminated
property.
(Ord. 2005-01, passed 5-23-2005)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   LICENSES
         
111.   ALCOHOL SALES
         
112.   TOBACCO REGULATIONS
         
113.   REGULATION OF PUBLIC DANCES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
         
114.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS55
         
115.   FIREWORKS
         
116.   EXPLOSIVES
         
117.   ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
         
118.   GAMBLING
CHAPTER 110: LICENSES
Section
   
110.01   Not transferable
   
110.02   Revocation
   
110.03   Appeal
§ 110.01 NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued by the city may be transferred from one person to another
without permission of the Council. When the Council permits the transfer of a
license, it may waive any residency requirement, but only for the required term
of the license.
(Prior Code, § 303.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 REVOCATION.
   Any license may be revoked by the Council for a violation of the section or
chapter under which it is issued. However, the revocation must follow any
procedure provided in the section or chapter in question.
(Prior Code, § 303.02)
§ 110.03 APPEAL.
   Any person who has made application and has been denied or not acted upon
within 30 days after the application may apply directly to the Council for a
license. The application to the Council shall contain the same information
required in the original application, plus any additional information that the
Council may require or that the applicant may feel is pertinent. The Council
may grant the license after hearing if the requirements of this code are
substantially complied with, and in the opinion of the Council granting of the
license would be in the best interests of the public.
(Prior Code, § 303.03)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOL SALES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.001   Definitions
   
111.002   Applications and licenses under this chapter - procedure and
administration
   
111.003   Renewal of licenses
   
111.004   Delinquent taxes and charges
   
111.005   Limitation on ownership
   
111.006   Conditional licenses
   
111.007   Premises licensed
   
111.008   Unlawful acts
   
111.009   Conduct on licensed premises
   
111.010   Sale by employee
   
111.011   License condition and unlawful act
   
111.012   Minors as defined in §
111.001 - unlawful acts
   
111.013   Financial responsibility of licensees
   
111.014   Insurance certificates requirements
   
111.015   Gambling prohibited
   
111.016   Consumption and possession of alcoholic beverages on streets, public
property and private parking lots to which the public has access
   
111.017   Alcoholic beverages in certain buildings and grounds
   
111.018   Workers’ compensation
   
111.019   Confections containing alcohol
Beer
   
111.030   Beer license required
   
111.031   Beer license fees
   
111.032   Temporary beer license
   
111.033   Beer license restrictions and regulations
   
111.034   Hours and days of beer sales
   
111.035   Unlawful acts (beer)
Liquor
   
111.050   Liquor license required
   
111.051   Liquor license fees
   
111.052   Liquor license restrictions and regulations
   
111.053   Hours and days of liquor sales
   
111.054   Sunday sales
   
111.055   Unlawful acts (liquor)
   
111.056   Sports or convention facility license
Temporary Licenses
   
111.070   Temporary liquor license
   
111.071   Temporary on-sale beer and liquor license regulations
Wine
   
111.085   On-sale wine
   
111.086   Hours and days of sales by on-sale wine licenses
   
111.087   Unlawful acts (wine)
Consumption and Display
   
111.100   Consumption and display - one-day license
   
111.101   Consumption and display
Nudity or Obscenity
   
111.115   Nudity or obscenity prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing more than 1/2 of 1% alcohol by
volume, including, but not limited to, beer, wine, and liquor as defined in
this section.
   APPLICANT. Any person making an application for a license under this
chapter.
   APPLICATION. A form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be filled in and
completed by the applicant as his or her request for a license, furnished by
the city and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration of the
issuance of a license for a business.
   BEER. Malt liquor containing not less than 1/2 of 1% alcohol by volume nor
more than 3.2% alcohol by weight. This definition includes so-called MALT
COOLERS with the alcoholic content limits stated herein.
   CASUAL RESTAURANT. A business establishment, other than a hotel and
traditional restaurant, under the control of a single proprietor or manager,
where all of the following exist:
      (1)   Meals are regularly prepared on the premises for the general
public;
      (2)   The principal part of the business is service of meals which shall
be at least 50% of the gross revenues;
      (3)   The facilities for seating shall not be less than 40 guests at one
time;
      (4)   Customers receive partial meal service by waitstaff whereby the
customer orders the meal and beverages at a counter, but the meal is consumed
at the customer’s table;
      (5)   Reusable dinnerware, such as eating utensils, plates, bowls, and
cups, is used by the customer for the consumption of the meal and beverages;
      (6)   Bussing or cleaning of the tables is done by restaurant staff; and
      (7)   No drive-through service is provided.
   BREWER. A person who manufactures beer for sale.
   CHURCH. A building which is principally used as a place where persons of the
same faith regularly assemble for the public worship of God.
   CLUB.
      (1)   An incorporated entity organized under the laws of the state for
civic, fraternal, social, or business purposes, for intellectual improvement,
or for the promotion of sports, or a congressionally chartered veterans’
organization, which:
         (a)   Has more than 15 members;
         (b)   Has owned or rented a building or space in a building for more
than one year that is suitable and adequate for the accommodation of its
members;
         (c)   Is directed by a board of directors, executive committee, or
other similar body chosen by the members at a meeting held for that purpose.
      (2)   No member, officer, agent, or employee shall receive any profit
from the distribution or sale of beverages to the members of the club or their
guests, beyond a reasonable salary or wages fixed and voted each year by the
governing body. The club or congressionally chartered veterans organization
must have been in existence for at least three years.
   COMMISSIONER. The State Commissioner of Public Safety.
   CONFECTION CONTAINING ALCOHOL. Any confection that contains or bears not
more than 5% alcohol by volume where the alcohol is in a nonliquid form by
reason of being mixed with other substances in the manufacture of the
confection.
   GENERAL FOOD STORE. A business, including convenience stores/marts,
primarily engaged in selling food and grocery supplies to the public for off
premises consumption.
   HOTEL. Includes any establishment having a resident proprietor or manager,
where, in consideration of payment therefor, food (consisting of a full menu as
distinguished from exclusively FAST FOOD items such as pizza, hamburgers and
other sandwiches) and lodging are regularly furnished to transients, and which
contains not less than 25 guest rooms with bedding and other suitable and
necessary furnishings in each room, and which is provided with a suitable
lobby, desk and office for the registration of its guests at the main entrance
and on the ground floor, which employs an adequate staff to provide suitable
and usual service, and which maintains under the same management and control as
the rest of the establishment and has an integral part thereof a dining room
with appropriate facilities for seating not less than 40 guests at one time,
where the general public is, in consideration of payment therefor, served with
meals at tables, where the principal part of the business (meaning at least 50%
of the gross income from sales during each calendar quarter) is from serving
foods and furnishing lodging, and where there is an appraised value of at least
$350,000 as to the building or portion of the building associated with liquor
sales.
   LICENSE. A document, issued by the city, to an applicant permitting him or
her to carry on and transact the business stated therein.
   LICENSE FEE. The money paid to the city pursuant to an application and prior
to issuance of a license to transact and carry on the business stated therein.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The premises described in the issued license. In the case
of a restaurant or a club licensed for on-sales of alcoholic beverages and
located on a golf course, LICENSED PREMISES means the entire golf course except
for areas where motor vehicles are regularly parked or operated.
   LICENSEE. An applicant who, pursuant to his or her approved application,
holds a valid, current, unexpired license, which has neither been revoked nor
is then under suspension, from the city for carrying on the business stated
therein.
   LIQUEUR-FILLED CANDY. Any confectionery containing more than 1/2 of 1%
alcohol by volume in liquid form that is intended for or capable of beverage
use.
   LIQUOR. Ethyl alcohol and distilled, fermented, spirituous, vinous and malt
beverages containing in excess of 3.2% of alcohol by weight. This definition
includes so-called wine coolers and malt coolers with the alcoholic content
limits stated herein.
   LIQUOR STORE. An establishment used exclusively for off-sale of liquor
except for the incidental sale of ice, tobacco, beer, beverages for mixing with
liquor, soft drinks, cork extraction devices, and books and videos on the use
of alcoholic beverages in the preparation of food.
   MALT LIQUOR. Any beer, ale, or other beverage made from malt by fermentation
and containing not less than 1/2 of 1% alcohol by volume.
   MANUFACTURER. Every person who, by any process of manufacture, fermenting,
brewing, distilling, refining, rectifying, blending, or by the combination of
different materials, prepares or produces alcoholic beverages for sale.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not attained the age of 21 years.
   OFF-SALE. The sale of alcoholic beverages in original packages for
consumption off the licensed premises only.
   ON-SALE. The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the licensed
premises only.
   PACKAGE and ORIGINAL PACKAGE. Any container or receptacle holding alcoholic
beverages, which container or receptacle is corked, capped or sealed by a
manufacturer or wholesaler.
   SALE, SELL and SOLD. All barters and all manners or means of furnishing
alcoholic beverages to persons, including furnishing in violation or evasion of
law.
   TRADITIONAL RESTAURANT. A business establishment, other than a hotel, under
the control of a single proprietor or manager, where all of the following
exist:
      (a)   Meals are regularly prepared on the premises for the general
public;
      (b)   The principal part of the business is service of meals, which shall
be at least 50% of the gross revenues;
      (c)   Facilities for seating shall not be less than 40 guests at one
time; and
      (d)   Customers receive full meal service by waitstaff whereby meals and
beverages are ordered, served, and consumed at the customer’s table.
   WHOLESALER. Any person engaged in the business of selling alcoholic
beverages to a licensee from a stock maintained in a warehouse.
   WINE. The product made from the normal alcoholic fermentation of grapes,
including still wine, sparkling and carbonated wine, made from condensed grape
musk, wine made from other agricultural products than sound, ripe grapes,
imitation wine, compounds sold as wine, vermouth, cider, sherry and sake, in
each instance containing not less than 1/2 of 1% nor more than 24% alcohol by
volume for nonindustrial use. WINE does not include distilled spirits, as
defined in M.S. § 340A.101, Subd. 9, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006)
§ 111.002 APPLICATIONS AND LICENSES UNDER THIS CHAPTER - PROCEDURE AND
ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Application. All applications shall be made at the office of the City
Clerk upon forms prescribed by the city or, if by the state, then together with
additional information as the Council may desire. Information required may vary
with the type of business organization making application. All questions asked
or information required by the application forms shall be answered fully and
completely by the applicant.
   (B)   False statements. It is unlawful for any applicant to intentionally
make a false statement or omission upon any application form. Any false
statement in an application or any willful omission to state any information
called for on the application form shall, upon discovery of the falsehood, work
an automatic refusal of license or, if already issued, shall render any license
issued pursuant thereto void and of no effect to protect the applicant from
prosecution for violation of this chapter or any part thereof.
   (C)   Application and investigation fees. At the time of the initial
application, an applicant for an on-sale liquor, wine or beer license or off-
sale liquor or beer license shall pay to the city a non-refundable base
application and investigation fee in the amount set forth in the current city
fee schedule. An additional fee for each person or entity beyond five having an
interest in the proposed licensed establishment shall be required in the amount
set forth in the current city fee schedule. An escrow of $1,000 for applicants
residing outside of the state shall be required to reimburse the city for out-
of-pocket investigative costs and the escrow shall be released upon payment in
full of actual investigation costs. A non-refundable investigation fee shall be
paid to the city for all changes in managers in the amount set forth in the
current city fee schedule. No fee shall be required of an applicant for a
temporary liquor or beer license.
   (D)   Action.
      (1)   Granting. The Council may approve any application for the period of
the remainder of the then current license year or for the entire ensuing
license year. All applications including proposed license periods must be
consistent with this chapter. Prior to consideration of any application for a
license, the applicant shall pay the license fee and, if applicable, pay the
investigation fee. Upon rejection of any application for a license or upon
withdrawal of an application before approval of the issuance by the Council,
the license fee shall be refunded to the applicant. Failure to pay any portion
of a fee when due shall be cause for revocation.
      (2)   Issuing. If an application is approved, the City Clerk shall
forthwith issue a license pursuant thereto in the form prescribed by the city
or the proper department of the state, as the case may be, and upon payment of
the license fee. All licenses shall be on a calendar-year basis unless
otherwise specified herein. For licenses issued and which are to become
effective other than on the first day of the license year, the fee to be paid
with the application shall be a pro rata share of the annual license fee.
Licenses shall be valid only at one location and on the premises therein
described.
      (3)   License refund in certain cases. A pro rata share of an annual
license fee for a license to sell liquor or beer, either on-sale or off-sale,
shall be refunded to the licensee or to his or her estate, if:
         (a)   The business ceases to operate because of destruction or damage;
         (b)   The licensee dies;
         (c)   The business ceases to be lawful for a reason other than a
license revocation or suspension; or
         (d)   The licensee ceases to carry on the licensed business under the
license.
      (4)   Transfer. No license shall be transferable between persons or to a
different location. Any change in individual ownership or substitution of
partners is a transfer. However, a change in corporate name of a beer licensee
shall not be considered a transfer if at least 90% of the issued and
outstanding shares are in the same ownership as at the time of original
application and §
111.005 has not been violated. It is unlawful to make any transfer in violation
of this division.
      (5)   Refusal and termination. The Council may, in its sole discretion
and for any reasonable cause, refuse to grant any application. No license shall
be granted to a person of questionable moral character or business reputation.
Licenses shall terminate only by expiration or revocation.
      (6)   Violation. For this section, a violation shall be defined as any
failure to comply with a statute, regulation or provision of the city code
relating to alcoholic beverages. A peace officer or an agent of the state
liquor control commission who becomes aware of a violation, regardless of
whether any action is taken to issue an oral or written warning, a citation or
a complaint, shall prepare a written report of the violation. One copy of the
report shall be given to the Chief of Police, the licensee, and the City Clerk,
respectively. A violation by an officer, employee or agent of the licensee
shall be deemed to be a violation by the licensee.
      (7)   Penalty. Upon a finding that the licensee has sold alcoholic
beverages to another retail licensee for the purpose of resale; purchased
alcoholic beverages from another retail licensee for the purposes of resale;
conducted or permitted the conduct of gambling on the licensed premises in
violation of the law; failed to remove or dispose of alcoholic beverages when
ordered by the Commissioner to do so under Minnesota Statutes; or failed to
comply with any other applicable state statute or rule, or code provision
herein relating to alcoholic beverages, a civil penalty of $500 for the first
violation, $1,000 for the second violation within a 24-month period, and $1,500
and a seven-day suspension of license for a third violation within a 24-month
period shall be imposed upon the licensee who shall pay the civil penalty
within 30 days of the date of a notice from the city. Notwithstanding the
foregoing civil penalties, a civil penalty of $2,000 and 30-days’ suspension of
the license, unless a greater civil penalty, suspension or revocation is
otherwise determined by City Council, shall be imposed upon a licensee upon the
fourth or more violation within a 36-month period. The foregoing penalties
shall not restrict the City Council from ordering the revocation of the
license, suspension of the license for up to 60 days, a civil penalty up to
$2,000, or impose any combination thereof. If the licensee fails to pay the
civil penalty within 30 days of notice, the licensee’s license shall be
suspended until the civil penalty, plus any surcharge or interest for late
payment, is paid in full.
      (8)   Hearing. No suspension or revocation of a license or civil penalty
under this section shall take effect until the licensee has been given an
opportunity for a hearing under the Minnesota Administrative Procedure Act. If
the licensee files a request for hearing with the City Clerk within ten
business days of the date of the notice of the license action or civil penalty,
the City Clerk shall schedule a hearing before a hearing officer duly appointed
by the City Council. In the event that the licensee fails to timely request a
hearing or fails to appear at a scheduled hearing, the licensee shall be deemed
to have waived his or her right to a hearing and shall be subject to the
license action or civil penalties imposed hereunder. If the licensee timely
requests a hearing, the hearing shall be held before the hearing officer within
14 days of the date the licensee files a request for hearing with the City
Clerk. Upon conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall issue written
findings of fact and conclusions as to whether a violation has occurred and the
penalty imposed as authorized herein. If the hearing involves a fourth or more
violation by the licensee, the hearing officer shall present written findings
of fact and conclusions to the City Council for its consideration of additional
penalties, including revocation of the license.
      (9)   Additional restrictions. As additional restrictions or regulations
on licensees under this chapter, and in addition to grounds for revocation or
suspension stated in the city code or statute, the following shall also be
grounds for action:
         (a)   The licensee suffered or permitted illegal acts upon licensed
premises unrelated to the sale of beer, wine or liquor;
         (b)   The licensee had knowledge of illegal acts upon licensed
premises, but failed to report the same to police;
         (c)   The licensee failed or refused to cooperate fully with police in
investigating alleged illegal acts upon licensed premises; or
         (d)   The activities of the licensee created a serious danger to
public health, safety, or welfare.
      (10)   Corporate applicants and licensees. A corporate applicant, at the
time of application, shall furnish the city with a list of all persons that
have an interest in a corporation and the extent of the interest. The list
shall name all shareholders and show the number of shares held by each, either
individually or beneficially for others. It is the duty of each corporate
licensee to notify the City Clerk in writing of any change in legal ownership
or beneficial interest in the corporation or in the shares. Any change in the
ownership or beneficial interest in the shares entitled to be voted at a
meeting of the shareholders of a corporate licensee, which results in the
change of voting control of the corporation by the persons owning the shares
therein, shall be deemed equivalent to a transfer of the license issued to the
corporation, and any license shall be revoked 30 days after any change in
ownership or beneficial interest of shares unless the City Council has been
notified of the change in writing and has approved it by appropriate action.
The City Council or any officer of the city designated by it may at any
reasonable time examine the stock transfer records and minute books of any
corporate licensee in order to verify and identify the shareholders, and the
Council or its designated officer may examine the business records of any other
licensee to the extent necessary to disclose the interest which persons other
than the licensee have in the licensed business. The Council may revoke any
license issued upon its determination that a change of ownership of shares in a
corporate licensee or any change of ownership of any interest in the business
of any other licensee has actually resulted in the change of control of the
licensed business so as materially to affect the integrity and character of its
management and its operation, but no action shall be taken until after a
hearing by the administrative hearing officer on notice to the licensee.
   (E)   Duplicate licenses. Duplicates of all original licenses under this
chapter may be issued by the City Clerk subject to approval by the Council,
upon licensee’s affidavit that the original has been lost, and upon payment of
a fee for issuance of the duplicate as set forth in the current city fee
schedule. All duplicate licenses shall be clearly marked “Duplicate.”
   (F)   Posting. All licensees shall conspicuously post their licenses in
their places of business.
   (G)   Resident manager or agent.
      (1)   Before a license is issued under this chapter to an individual who
is a nonresident of the state, to more than one individual whether or not they
are residents of the state, or to a corporation, company, partnership, or
association, the applicant or applicants shall appoint in writing a natural
person who is a resident of the state as its manager or agent.
      (2)   The resident manager or agent shall, by the terms of his or her
written consent:
         (a)   Take full responsibility for the conduct of the licensed
premises; and
         (b)   Serve as agent for service of notices and other process relating
to the license.
      (3)   The manager or agent must be a person who, by reason of age,
character, reputation, and other attributes, could qualify individually as a
licensee. If the manager or agent ceases to be a resident of the state or
ceases to act in that capacity for the licensee without appointment of a
successor, the license issued pursuant to the appointment shall be subject to
revocation or suspension.
   (H)   Persons disqualified.
      (1)   No license under this chapter may be issued to:
         (a)   A person not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien;
         (b)   A person who within five years of the license application has
been convicted of a willful violation of a federal or state law or local
ordinance governing the manufacture, sale, distribution, or possession for sale
or distribution of alcoholic beverages;
         (c)   A person who has had an alcoholic beverage license revoked
within five years of the license application, or to any person who at the time
of the violation owns any interest, whether as a holder of more than 5% of the
capital stock of a corporate licensee, as a partner or otherwise, in the
premises or in the business conducted thereon, or to a corporation,
partnership, association, enterprise, business, or firm in which any person is
in any manner interested;
         (d)   A person under the age of 21 years; or
         (e)   A person not of good moral character and repute.
      (2)   No person holding a license from the Commissioner as a
manufacturer, brewer or wholesaler may have a direct or indirect interest, in
whole or in part, in a business holding an alcoholic beverage license from the
city.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006)
§ 111.003 RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   Applications for renewal of all licenses under this chapter shall be made at
least 60 days prior to the date of expiration of the license and shall contain
information as is required by the city. This time requirement may be waived by
the Council for good and sufficient cause.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006)
§ 111.004 DELINQUENT TAXES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   No license under this chapter shall be granted for operation on any
premises upon which taxes, assessments, or installments thereof, or other
financial claims of the city, are owed by the applicant and are delinquent and
unpaid.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, APPLICANT includes persons and
related persons:
      (a)   Owning at least a 50% beneficial interest in the proposed license
or in the entity making the application; and
      (b)   At least an undivided 1/2 interest in the premises proposed to be
licensed, or at least a 50% beneficial interest in the entity owning the
premises.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006)
§ 111.005 LIMITATION ON OWNERSHIP.
   No person shall be granted an off-sale liquor license at more than one
location. For the purpose of this section, any person owning an interest of 5%
or more of the entity to which the license is issued, or if the ownership is by
a member of any immediate family living in the same household, as the licensee,
that person shall be deemed to be a licensee.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.006 CONDITIONAL LICENSES.
   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the Council may, upon
a finding of the necessity therefor, place special conditions and restrictions,
in addition to those stated in this chapter, upon any license as it, in its
discretion, may deem reasonable and justified.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006)
§ 111.007 PREMISES LICENSED.
   Unless expressly stated therein, a license issued under the provisions of
this chapter shall be valid only in the compact and contiguous building or
structure situated on the premises described in the license, and all
transactions relating to a sale under a license must take place within the
building or structure.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006)
§ 111.008 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Consumption. It is unlawful for any person to consume, or any licensee
to permit consumption of, beer, wine or liquor on licensed premises more than
20 minutes after the hour when a sale thereof can legally be made.
   (B)   Removal of containers. It is unlawful for any on-sale licensee to
permit any glass, bottle or other container, containing beer, wine or liquor in
any quantity, to remain upon any table, bar, stool or other place where
customers are served, more than 30 minutes after the hour when a sale thereof
can legally be made.
   (C)   Closing. It is unlawful for any person, other than an on-sale
licensee’s bona fide employee actually engaged in the performance of his or her
duties, to be on premises licensed under this chapter more than 30 minutes
after the legal time for making licensed sales.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.009 CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   Except as herein provided, every licensee under this chapter shall be
responsible for the conduct of his or her place of business and shall maintain
conditions of sobriety and order therein.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.010 SALE BY EMPLOYEE.
   Any sale of an alcoholic beverage in or from any premises licensed under
this chapter by any employee authorized to make a sale in or from the place is
the act of the employer as well as of the person actually making the sale; and
every employer is liable to all of the penalties, except criminal penalties,
provided by law for the sale, equally with the person actually making the sale.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.011 LICENSE CONDITION AND UNLAWFUL ACT.
   (A)   All premises licensed under this chapter shall at all times be open to
inspection by any police officer to determine whether or not this chapter and
all other laws are being observed. All persons, as a condition to being issued
a license, consent to the inspection by officers and without a warrant for
searches or seizures.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee, or agent or employee of a licensee,
to hinder or prevent a police officer from making an inspection.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.012 MINORS AS DEFINED IN§ 111.001 - UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Consumption. It is unlawful for any:
      (1)   Licensee to permit any minor to consume alcoholic beverages on
licensed premises; and
      (2)   Minor to consume alcoholic beverages except in the household of the
minor’s parent or guardian, and then only with the consent of the parent or
guardian.
   (B)   Purchasing. It is unlawful for any:
      (1)   Person to sell, barter, furnish, or give alcoholic beverages to a
minor unless the person is the parent or guardian of the minor, and then only
for consumption in the household of the parent or guardian;
      (2)   Minor to purchase or attempt to purchase any alcoholic beverage;
and
      (3)   Person to induce a minor to purchase or procure any alcoholic
beverage.
   (C)   Possession. It is unlawful for a minor to possess any alcoholic
beverage with the intent to consume it at a place other than the household of
the minor’s parent or guardian. Possession of an alcoholic beverage by a minor
at a place other than the household of the parent or guardian is prima facie
evidence of intent to consume it at a place other than the household of his or
her parent or guardian.
   (D)   Entering licensed premises.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any minor, as defined in this chapter, to enter
licensed premises for the purpose of purchasing or consuming any alcoholic
beverage.
      (2)   It is not unlawful for any person who has attained the age of 18
years to enter licensed premises for the following purposes:
         (a)   To perform work for the establishment, including the serving of
alcoholic beverages, unless otherwise prohibited by statute;
         (b)   To consume meals; and
         (c)   To attend social functions that are held in a portion of the
establishment where liquor is not sold.
      (3)   It is unlawful for a licensee to permit a person under the age of
18 years to enter licensed premises unless attending a social event at which
alcoholic beverages are not served or in the company of a parent or guardian.
   (E)   Misrepresentation of age. It is unlawful for a minor to misrepresent
his or her age for the purpose of purchasing an alcoholic beverage.
   (F)   Proof of age. Proof of age for purchasing or consuming alcoholic
beverages may be established only by a valid driver’s license or identification
card issued by this state, another state, or a province of Canada, and
including the photograph and date of birth of the licensed person, or by a
valid military identification card issued by the United States Department of
Defense or, in the case of a foreign national, from a nation other than Canada,
by a valid passport.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.013 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEES.
   (A)   Proof. No alcoholic beverage license shall be issued or renewed unless
and until the applicant has provided proof of financial responsibility imposed
by statutes, by filing with the city a certificate that there is in effect an
insurance policy or pool providing minimum coverages of:
      (1)   $50,000 because of bodily injury to any one person in any one
occurrence and, subject to the limit for one person, in the amount of $100,000
because of bodily injury to two or more persons in any one occurrence and in
the amount of $10,000 because of injury to or destruction of property of others
in any one occurrence; and
      (2)   $50,000 for loss of means of support of any one person in any one
occurrence, and, subject to the limit for one person, $100,000 for loss of
means of support of two or more persons in any one occurrence.
   (B)   Exception. This section does not apply to on-sale beer licensees with
sales of beer of less than $25,000 for the preceding year nor to off-sale beer
licensees with sales of beer of less than $50,000 for the preceding year nor
does it apply to holders of on-sale wine licenses with sales of wine of less
than $25,000 for the preceding year. An affidavit of the licensee shall be
required to establish the exemption under this division.
   (C)   Documents submitted to Commissioner. All proofs of financial
responsibility and exemption affidavits filed with the city under this section
shall be submitted by the city to the State Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.014 INSURANCE CERTIFICATES REQUIREMENTS.
   Whenever an insurance certificate is required by this chapter, the applicant
shall file with the city a certificate of insurance showing:
   (A)   The limits are at least as high as required;
   (B)   The coverage is effective for at least the license term approved; and
   (C)   The insurance will not be cancelled or terminated without 30-days’
written notice served upon the city. Cancellation or termination of the
coverage shall be grounds for license revocation.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.015 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any licensee to keep, possess, or operate or permit
the keeping, possession, or operation on licensed premises of dice or any other
gambling device or permit raffles to be conducted, except as are licensed by
the state gambling control board and then only except as it complies with the
established policy of the city.
   (B)   Pull-tab sales by a nonprofit organization may be conducted in an area
leased by an organization separate from the bar or service area. Pull-tab sales
shall be made by a member or employee of the gambling licensed organization
only or by employees of the alcohol license holder on behalf of the gambling
licensed organization.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006; Am. Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-14-2014)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 111.016 CONSUMPTION AND POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES ON STREETS, PUBLIC
PROPERTY AND PRIVATE PARKING LOTS TO WHICH THE PUBLIC HAS ACCESS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, it is unlawful for any person to
consume or possess in an unsealed container any alcoholic beverage on any:
      (1)   City park;
      (2)   Street;
      (3)   Public property; or
      (4)   Private parking lot to which the public has access, except on
premises when and where permission has been specifically granted or licensed by
the Council.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the possession of an unsealed
container in a motor vehicle when the container is kept in the trunk of the
vehicle, if it is equipped with a trunk, or kept in some other area of the
vehicle not normally occupied by the driver or passengers, if the motor vehicle
is not equipped with a trunk.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, a utility or glove compartment shall
be deemed to be within the area occupied by the driver or passengers.
   (D)   A non-profit corporation may apply for a temporary beer license for
consumption in city parks, with the exception of Stark Field where no alcohol
is allowed.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.017 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN CERTAIN BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.
   It is unlawful for any person to introduce upon or have in his or her
possession upon or in any public elementary or secondary school ground or any
public elementary or secondary school building any alcoholic beverage, except
for experiments in laboratories and except for those organizations who have
been issued temporary licenses to sell alcoholic beverages, and for any person
to possess alcoholic beverages as a result of a purchase from those
organizations holding temporary licenses.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.018 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION.
   No license to operate a business shall be issued by the city until the
applicant presents his or her employer’s tax identification number and
acceptable evidence of compliance with the workers’ compensation insurance
coverage requirements of Minnesota Statutes by providing the name of the
insurance company, the policy number, and dates of coverage, or the permit to
self insure.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006)
§ 111.019 CONFECTIONS CONTAINING ALCOHOL.
   It is unlawful for any person to sell a confection containing alcohol to any
person under the age of 21 years. For purposes of this section, CONFECTION
CONTAINING ALCOHOL does not include LIQUEUR-FILLED CANDY as herein defined.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
BEER
§ 111.030 BEER LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, on any pretense or by
any device, to sell, barter, keep for sale, or otherwise dispose of beer, as
part of a commercial transaction, without a license therefor from the city.
This section shall not apply to sales by manufacturers to wholesalers or to
sales by wholesalers to persons holding beer licenses from the city. Any person
licensed to sell liquor at on-sale shall not be required to obtain an on-sale
beer license, and may sell beer on-sale without an additional license. Any
person licensed to sell liquor off-sale shall not be required to obtain an off-
sale beer license, and may sell beer off-sale without an additional license.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.031 BEER LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The annual on-sale beer license fee shall be as set forth in the
current city fee schedule.
   (B)   The annual off-sale beer license fee shall be as set forth in the
current city fee schedule.
   (C)   The daily temporary on-sale beer license fee shall be as set forth in
the current city fee schedule.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006)
§ 111.032 TEMPORARY BEER LICENSE.
   (A)   Applicant. A club or charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization,
having its registered office or principal place of activity within the city,
shall qualify for a temporary on-sale beer license, for serving beer off school
grounds, and out of school buildings.
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   An application for a temporary license shall state the exact dates
and place of proposed temporary sale.
      (2)   No applicant shall qualify for a temporary license for more than a
total of six days in any calendar year.
      (3)   The application for and issuance of a temporary on-sale beer
license shall be subject to the regulations for temporary on-sale beer and
liquor licenses as set forth elsewhere in this chapter.
   (C)   Insurance required. The Council may, but at no time shall it be under
any obligation whatsoever to, grant a temporary beer license on premises owned
or controlled by the city. Any license may be conditioned, qualified, or
restricted as the Council sees fit. If the premises to be licensed are owned or
under the control of the city, the applicant shall file with the city, prior to
the issuance of the license, a certificate of liability insurance coverage in
at least the sum of $300,000 for injury to any one person, $600,000 for injury
to more than one person and $25,000 for property damage, naming the city as an
insured during the license period.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006)
§ 111.033 BEER LICENSE RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No licensee shall, during the effective period of the license, be the
owner or holder of a federal retail liquor dealer’s tax stamp for the sale of
intoxicating liquor, unless the owner or holder also holds a liquor license
from the city, and ownership or holding thereof shall be grounds for immediate
revocation, without a hearing.
   (B)   No license shall be granted to a wholesaler or manufacturer of beer or
to anyone holding a financial interest in the manufacture or wholesaling.
   (C)   No person who has not attained the age of 18 years shall be employed
to sell or serve beer in any on-sale establishment.
   (D)   (1)   No license shall be granted for any building within 300 feet of
any nursery, elementary or secondary school structure; daycare center
structure; or church structure, except as provided herein.
      (2)   A license may be granted for any building within 300 feet of any of
the above listed uses when the proposed license premises and listed uses are
located within the same zoning district and planned commercial development.
   (E)   On-sale licenses shall be granted only to bona fide clubs, traditional
or casual restaurants, golf courses/clubs, and hotels. Off-sale licenses may be
granted to liquor stores.
   (F)   Every license shall be granted subject to the provisions of this
chapter and all other applicable provisions of the city code and other laws
relating to the operation of licensee’s business.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.034 HOURS AND DAYS OF BEER SALES.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
111.054, no on-sale liquor sales shall be made between 2:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m.
on Sunday, nor between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Monday, nor
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Tuesday through Saturday.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.035 UNLAWFUL ACTS (BEER).
   It is unlawful for any:
   (A)   Person to knowingly induce another to make an illegal sale or purchase
of beer;
   (B)   Licensee to sell or serve beer to any person who is obviously
intoxicated;
   (C)   Licensee to sell beer on any day or during any hour when the sales are
not permitted by law;
   (D)   Licensee to allow consumption of beer on licensed premises on any day
when sales of beer are not permitted by law; and
   (E)   Person to purchase beer on any day or during any hour when sales of
beer are not permitted by law.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
LIQUOR
§ 111.050 LIQUOR LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, on any pretense
or by any device, to sell, barter, keep for sale, or otherwise dispose of
liquor, as part of a commercial transaction, without a license therefor from
the city.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to:
      (1)   Potable liquors as are intended for therapeutic purposes and not as
a beverage;
      (2)   Industrial alcohol and its compounds not prepared or used for
beverage purposes;
      (3)   Wine in the possession of a person duly licensed under this chapter
as an on-sale wine licensee;
      (4)   Sales by manufacturers to wholesalers duly licensed as that by the
Commissioner; or
      (5)   Sales by wholesalers to persons holding liquor licenses from the
city.
   (C)   Any person licensed to sell liquor at on-sale shall not be required to
obtain an on-sale beer license, and may sell beer on-sale without an additional
license.
   (D)   Any person licensed to sell liquor off-sale shall not be required to
obtain an off-sale beer license, and may sell beer off-sale without an
additional license.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.051 LIQUOR LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The annual on-sale liquor license fee shall be in an amount as set
forth in the current city fee schedule.
   (B)   The annual off-sale liquor license fee shall be as set forth in the
current city fee schedule.
   (C)   The annual Sunday liquor license fee shall be as set forth in the
current city fee schedule.
   (D)   The annual club on-sale liquor license fees for a club with a
membership of 40 or less shall be as set forth in the current city fee
schedule; for a club with a membership of more than 40 members shall be as set
forth in the current city fee schedule.
   (E)   The daily sports or convention facilities liquor license fee shall be
as set forth in the current city fee schedule. The annual sports or convention
facilities liquor license fee shall be as set forth in the current city fee
schedule.
   (F)   The temporary liquor license fee shall be as set forth in the current
city fee schedule.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006)
§ 111.052 LIQUOR LICENSE RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No license shall be effective until a permit shall be issued to a
licensee under the laws of the United States, if the permit be required under
the laws or the state.
   (B)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed upon premises or
in any rooms constituting the same, except that persons under the age of 18
years may be employed as musicians or to perform the duties of a busboy or
dishwashing services in a place defined as a restaurant or hotel.
   (C)   No licensee shall sell, offer for sale, or keep for sale liquor in any
original package which has been refilled or partly refilled.
   (D)   No licensee shall display liquor to the public during hours when the
sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   No license shall be granted for any building within 300 feet of any
nursery, elementary or secondary school structure; daycare center structure; or
church structure, except as provided herein. A license may be granted for any
building within 300 feet of any of the above listed uses when the proposed
license premises and listed uses are located within the same zoning district
and planned commercial development.
   (F)   On-sale licenses shall be granted only to hotels, traditional
restaurants and clubs. This section shall not apply to on-sale licenses that
were valid on the effective date of this chapter.
   (G)   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may
issue. However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter
is limited to the number of licenses which were issued as of the effective date
of this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council in its sound discretion may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger
number of licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum
held under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, Subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that is has available. There will be no more than
five off-sale liquor licenses available.
   (H)   (1)   Off-sale license applications will be reviewed by the Police
Department. If an off-sale license is not issued within nine months after
Council approval, the approval shall automatically lapse.
      (2)   Each applicant shall display to the city’s satisfaction that it has
at least an option on a specific site for the location of an off-sale store and
any other information as the city may require. The Council reserves the right
to determine specific compliance with this division.
      (3)   All off-sale licenses shall run from the date of issuance until
December 31 of that year. Fees shall be prorated if any off-sale license is
issued for less than a full calendar year.
   (I)   Every license shall be granted subject to the provisions of this
chapter and all other applicable provisions of the city code and other laws
relating to the operation of the licensed business.
   (J)   It is lawful for an off-sale licensee to provide samples of wine,
liqueurs, and cordials which the licensee currently has in stock and is
offering for sale to the general public without obtaining an additional
license, provided the wine, liqueur, and cordial samples are dispensed at no
charge and consumed on the licensed premises during the permitted hours of off-
sale in a quantity less than 50 milliliters of wine per variety per customer
and 25 milliliters of liqueur or cordial per variety per customer.
   (K)   Coin-operated amusement devices may not be located on premises
licensed for off-sale of liquor.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006; Am. Ord. 11.052, passed 10-18-2010)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 111.053 HOURS AND DAYS OF LIQUOR SALES.
   Except as otherwise provided in §
111.054, no on-sale liquor sales shall be made between 2:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m.
on Sunday, nor between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Monday, nor
between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Tuesday through Saturday.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.054 SUNDAY SALES.
   (A)   The electorate of the city having heretofore authorized the same, a
Sunday on-sale liquor license may be issued to hotels, motels, restaurants, or
clubs, as defined in this chapter, which have on-sale licenses and which also
have facilities for serving not less than 30 guests at one time.
   (B)   The hours of sales shall be from 11:00 a.m. on Sunday to 12:00 a.m. on
Monday in conjunction with the serving of food, provided that the licensed
establishment is in conformance with the Minnesota Clean Indoor Air Act.
   (C)   Should New Year’s Eve fall on a Sunday, the hours of sale shall be
from 11:00 a.m. on that Sunday to 2:00 a.m. the following Monday.
(Ord. 2004-6, passed 12-16-2004; Am. Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006; Am. Ord.
passed - -) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.055 UNLAWFUL ACTS (LIQUOR).
   It is unlawful for any:
   (A)   Person to knowingly induce another to make an illegal sale or purchase
of liquor;
   (B)   Licensee to sell liquor on any day or during any hour when sales of
liquor are not permitted by law;
   (C)   Person to purchase liquor on any day or during any hour when sales of
liquor are not permitted by law; and
   (D)   Licensee to sell or serve liquor to any person who is obviously
intoxicated.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.056 SPORTS OR CONVENTION FACILITY LICENSE.
   The Council may authorize any holder of an on-sale liquor license issued by
the city or by an adjacent municipality to sell liquor at any convention,
banquet, conference, meeting or social affair conducted on the premises of a
sports or convention facility owned by the city or instrumentality thereof
having independent policy-making and appropriating authority and located within
the city. The licensee must be engaged to sell liquor at an event by the person
or organization permitted to use the premises and may sell liquor only to
persons attending the event. The licensee shall not sell liquor to any person
attending or participating in any amateur athletic event. The sales may be
limited to designated areas of the facility. All sales shall be subject to all
laws relating thereto.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
TEMPORARY LICENSES
§ 111.070 TEMPORARY LIQUOR LICENSE.
   (A)   License authorized. Notwithstanding any provision of the city code to
the contrary, the Council may issue a license for the temporary on-sale of
liquor in connection with a social event sponsored by the licensee. The license
may provide that the licensee may contract with the holder of a full-year on-
sale license, issued by the city, for liquor catering services.
   (B)   Applicant. The applicant for a license under this section must be a
club or charitable, religious, or other nonprofit organization in existence for
at least three years.
   (C)   Terms and conditions of license.
      (1)   No license is valid until approved by the Commissioner.
      (2)   No license shall be issued for more than three consecutive days.
      (3)   All licenses and licensees are subject to all provisions of
statutes and the city code relating to liquor sale and licensing. The licensee
shall provide proof of financial responsibility coverage and, in the case of
catering by a full-year on-sale licensee, the caterer shall provide proof of
the extension of the coverage to the licensed premises.
      (4)   Licenses may authorize sales on premises other than those owned or
permanently occupied by the licensee.
      (5)   The application for and issuance of a temporary on-sale liquor
license shall be subject to the regulations for temporary on-sale beer and
liquor licenses as set forth elsewhere in this chapter.
   (D)   Insurance required. The Council may, but at no time shall it be under
any obligation whatsoever to, grant a temporary liquor license on premises
owned or controlled by the city. Any license may be conditioned, qualified or
restricted as the Council sees fit. If the premises to be licensed are owned or
under the control of the city, the applicant shall file with the city, prior to
issuance of the license, a certificate of liability insurance coverage in at
least the sum of $300,000 for injury to any one person, $600,000 for injury to
more than one person, and $25,000 for property damage, naming the city as an
insured during the license period.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.071 TEMPORARY ON-SALE BEER AND LIQUOR LICENSE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Application and scope. This section shall apply to any event for which
a temporary on-sale beer license or temporary on-sale liquor license has been
sought and issued in accordance with this chapter. Any applicant for or
licensee of a temporary on-sale beer or liquor license shall be subject to the
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Regulations. Any temporary on-sale beer and liquor license applied for
and issued under this chapter shall be subject to the following restrictions
and requirements.
      (1)   The application for a temporary license issued under this chapter
shall contain complete information as required on form prescribed by the City
Clerk and shall be filed, along with the license fee, with the City Clerk at
least 30 days prior to the first date for which the license is sought.
      (2)   The application shall include the street address of the property on
which the licensed activity shall occur.
      (3)   The application shall include a detailed site plan:
         (a)   Delineating the property or area of the property on which the
licensee’s event is to be located; and
         (b)   Delineating the location of the area in which the licensed
alcoholic beverages are to be sold and consumed, if the area is intended to be
within only a portion of the entire event area.
      (4)   The application shall identify all measures and methods to be
utilized to partition any area within the entire event area for sale and
consumption of the licensed alcoholic beverages, and shall state in detail its
security plan setting forth the licensee’s plan to enforce alcohol beverage
sale and consumption laws, crowd control and public safety and how the licensee
will check the ages and identification of attendees. The applicant’s security
plan shall be subject to the review, revision and approval of the County
Sheriff or his or her designee.
      (5)   The licensee shall comply with and implement all security
personnel, measures and methods as required by the County Sheriff.
      (6)   No alcohol shall be sold, served, and consumed outside the licensed
area, which is the area specifically delineated by the licensee on the site
plan filed with the application for license.
      (7)   No person under the age of 21 shall be sold or served or otherwise
permitted to consume alcoholic beverages of the licensee on the licensed event
premises. If the licensee has a designated licensed area, representing a
portion of the entire event area, no person under 21 years of age, unless with
a parent or legal guardian, shall be permitted within the licensed area, except
persons ages 18, 19 or 20 may be within the designated area, provided they are
performing work, including serving alcoholic beverages, for the licensee.
      (8)   All persons who consume, purchase or possess an alcoholic beverage
in the licensed area shall be issued and required to wear a wristband approved
by the County Sheriff and no alcoholic beverage shall be sold or otherwise
provided to a person who does not have a wristband as required by this
division.
      (9)   All persons who are issued a wristband in accordance with these
requirements shall be identified with a valid photograph identification as
otherwise required under this chapter.
      (10)   No person working for the licensee within the licensed area shall
be intoxicated or consume alcoholic beverages during his or her work shift.
      (11)   The licensee shall post signs at all entrances to the licensed
area notifying the public that sales to and consumption of alcoholic beverages
by persons under the age of 21 or to persons intoxicated is prohibited.
      (12)   The licensee shall provide paid or volunteer private security to
monitor the licensed area and the licensee shall be subject to any order by the
County Sheriff as to required security measures and personnel, including the
required security personnel numbers, permitted or required entrances and exits
from the designated area, as a condition of the license.
      (13)   The licensee shall pay to the city all fees incurred by the city
for any on-duty County Sheriff’s deputy assigned to patrol the licensed area as
ordered by the County Sheriff for necessary security and public safety and the
fee for each officer shall be as set forth in the city’s duly adopted fee
schedule.
      (14)   No alcoholic beverages shall be sold or consumed except during the
following hours:
         (a)   Monday through Saturday from 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.; and
         (b)   Sunday from 11:00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. Monday.
      (15)   No persons shall be within the licensed area, if the area is a
designated partitioned area from the entire event area, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale is permitted.
      (16)   The licensee shall designate an on-site manager of the licensed
area who shall be within the licensed designated area at all times during the
hours of sale. The on-site manager shall complete training in alcohol beverage
service and shall train any server and security personnel of the same. It is
unlawful for the licensee, any paid employee of or volunteer for the licensee
or any attendee of the licensee’s event to violate any of the foregoing
restrictions and regulations. Upon a violation of any of the foregoing
restrictions and regulations which may result in eminent danger to public
safety, the licensee’s temporary license may be immediately revoked and upon
order of a sheriff’s deputy, the licensee shall immediately cease from selling
or serving any alcoholic beverages.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
WINE
§ 111.085 ON-SALE WINE.
   (A)   On-sale wine license required.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to sell or keep or offer for sale any
wine without a license therefor from the city.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to:
         (a)   Possession or handling for sale or otherwise of sacramental wine
or any representative of any religious order or for use in connection with a
legitimate religious ceremony;
         (b)   Sales by manufacturers to wholesalers duly licensed as that by
the state;
         (c)   Sales by wholesalers to persons holding on-sale or off-sale
liquor licenses from the city; or
         (d)   Sales by wholesalers to persons holding on-sale wine licenses
from the city.
   (B)   On-sale wine license fee.
      (1)   The annual on-sale wine license fee as set forth in the current
city fee schedule.
      (2)   The annual Sunday on-sale wine license fee as set forth in the
current city fee schedule.
   (C)   On-sale wine license restrictions and regulations.
      (1)   No person under 18 years of age may be employed in a place where
liquor is sold for consumption on the premises, except persons under 18 years
of age may be employed as musicians or in bussing or washing dishes in a
restaurant or hotel that is licensed to sell liquor and may be employed as
waiters or waitresses at a restaurant or hotel where only wine is sold,
provided that the person under the age of 18 may not serve or sell any wine.
      (2)   No licensee shall display wine to the public on days or during
hours when the sale of wine is prohibited.
      (3)   No license shall be granted for any building within 300 feet of any
nursery, elementary or secondary school structure; daycare center structure; or
church structure, except as provided herein. A license may be granted for any
building within 300 feet of any of the above listed uses when the proposed
license premises and listed uses are located within the same zoning district
and planned commercial development.
      (4)   On-sale wine licenses shall be granted only to traditional or
casual restaurants.
      (5)   Every license shall be granted subject to the provisions of this
chapter and all other applicable provisions of the city code and other laws
relating to the operation of the licensed business.
      (6)   Persons who hold both an on-sale wine license and an on-sale beer
license and whose gross receipts are at least 50% attributable to the sale of
food may sell intoxicating malt liquor (strong beer) at on-sale without an
additional license.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.086 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALES BY ON-SALE WINE LICENSES.
   No on-sale of wine shall be made between 2:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. on Sunday
nor between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Monday, nor between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. through 8:00 a.m. on Tuesday through Saturday.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.087 UNLAWFUL ACTS (WINE).
   It is unlawful for any:
   (A)   Person to knowingly induce another to make an illegal sale or purchase
of wine;
   (B)   Licensee to sell wine on any day or during any hour when sales of wine
are not permitted by law;
   (C)   Person to purchase wine on any day or during any hour when sales of
wine are not permitted by law;
   (D)   Licensee to sell or serve wine to any person who is obviously
intoxicated; or
   (E)   Wine licenses may be issued, with the approval of the Commissioner of
Public Safety, only to restaurants having facilities for seating of at least 25
people at one time for the sale of wine not exceeding 14% alcohol by volume and
for consumption on the licensed premises only in conjunction with the sale of
food. The holder of a wine license who is also licensed to sell 3.2% malt
liquor on-sale and whose gross receipts are at least 50% attributable to the
sale of food, may also sell intoxicating malt liquors at on-sale without an
additional license.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
CONSUMPTION AND DISPLAY
§ 111.100 CONSUMPTION AND DISPLAY - ONE-DAY LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. Any nonprofit organization desiring to serve liquids
for the purpose of mixing with liquor and permitting the consumption and
display of liquor in conjunction with a social activity sponsored by it shall
first obtain a license therefor from the city. It is unlawful for any
organization to fail to obtain a license.
   (B)   Term. The term of the license shall be one day only.
   (C)   Limitation on number. No more than ten licenses shall be issued in any
calendar year.
   (D)   License fee. The fee for a one-day license shall be as set forth in
the current city fee schedule.
   (E)   Approval. In addition to Council approval, a license must be approved
by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.101 CONSUMPTION AND DISPLAY.
   (A)   Consumption and display license required. It is unlawful for any club
or business establishment which does not hold an on-sale liquor license to
directly or indirectly allow the consumption or display of liquor or the
serving of any liquid for the purpose of mixing with liquor, without a license
therefor from the city.
   (B)   Consumption and display license and license fee. The annual
consumption and display license fee shall be as set forth in the current city
fee schedule. The term of the annual license shall be effective from April 1
through March 31 of the following year.
   (C)   Consumption and display restrictions and regulations.
      (1)   Lockers. A business establishment or club to which a license is
issued under this section may allow members to bring and keep a personal supply
of liquor in lockers on the establishment’s premises. Every bottle, container
or other receptacle containing liquor stored by a member shall attach to it a
label signed by the member, shall be kept in a locker designated to the use of
the member, and no other liquor shall be on the premises.
      (2)   Person under 21. It is unlawful for any person under 21 years of
age to be assigned a locker for the storage of liquor or to consume or display
or keep a supply of liquor on the establishment’s premises.
      (3)   Restrictions. No licensee may permit a person to consume or display
liquor or no person may consume or display liquor, between 2:00 a.m. and 12:00
noon on Sundays, and between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on Monday through
Saturday.
      (4)   Issuance of licenses. The city may issue a license under this
section only to:
         (a)   An applicant who has not, within five years prior to the
application, been convicted of a felony or of violating any provision of M.S,
Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or of violating any
provision of this chapter;
         (b)   A restaurant;
         (c)   A hotel;
         (d)    An establishment holding a beer license issued under this
chapter;
         (e)   A resort as defined by Minnesota Statutes; and
         (f)   A club, as defined by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time, or an unincorporated club otherwise meeting the definition
of club, provided the club does not hold an on-sale liquor license.
      (5)   Sale of liquor on licensed premises. It is unlawful to sell liquor
on premises licensed under this section.
      (6)   Issuance of consumption and display license. No consumption and
display license may be issued by the city unless the business establishment or
club seeking a license hereunder holds a consumption and display permit from
the Commissioner. It is unlawful for any person, business establishment or
club, directly or indirectly, to allow the consumption or display of liquor or
the serving of any liquid for the purpose of mixing with liquor, without first
having obtained a permit therefor from the Commissioner.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006) Penalty, see §
10.99
NUDITY OR OBSCENITY
§ 111.115 NUDITY OR OBSCENITY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area,
buttocks, or anus with less than a fully opaque covering; the showing of the
female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple;
the exposure of any device, costume, or covering which gives the appearance of
or simulates the genitals, pubic hair, natal cleft, perineum anal region or
pubic hair region; or the exposure of any device worn as a cover over the
nipples and/or areola of the female breast, which device simulates and gives
the realistic appearance of nipples and/or areola; or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
      OBSCENE PERFORMANCE. A play, motion picture, dance, show or other
presentation, whether pictured, animated or live, performed before an audience
and which in whole or in part depicts or reveals nudity, sexual conduct, sexual
excitement or sadomasochistic abuse or which includes obscenities or explicit
verbal descriptions or narrative accounts of sexual conduct.
      OBSCENITIES. Those slang words, currently generally rejected for regular
use in mixed society, that are used to refer to genitals, female breasts,
sexual conduct or excretory functions or products, either that have no other
meaning or that in context are clearly used for their bodily, sexual or
excretory meaning.
      SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person who is
nude or clad in undergarments or in revealing or bizarre costume, or the
condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained on the
part of one so clothed.
      SEXUAL CONDUCT. Human masturbation, sexual intercourse or any touching of
the genitals, pubic areas or buttocks of the human male or female or the
breasts of the female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite
sex or between humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or
gratification.
      SEXUAL EXCITEMENT. The condition of human male or female genitals or the
breasts of the female when in a state of sexual stimulation, or the sensual
experiences of humans engaging in or witnessing sexual conduct or nudity.
   (B)   Unlawful act. It is unlawful for any person issued a license provided
for in this chapter to permit upon licensed premises any nudity, obscene
performance or continued use of obscenities by any agent, employee, patron or
other person.
(Ord. 2006-4-2, passed 4-24-2006; Am. Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-8-2010; Am. Ord.
2012-04, passed 4-9-2012)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: TOBACCO REGULATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose and intent
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License
   
112.04   Fees
   
112.05   Basis for denial of license
   
112.06   Prohibited sales
   
112.07   Vending machines
   
112.08   Self-service sales
   
112.09   Responsibility
   
112.10   Compliance checks and inspections
   
112.11   Other illegal acts
   
112.12   Exceptions and defenses
 
   
112.99   Violations and penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Because the city recognizes that many persons under the age of 18 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products, and
tobacco related devices, and the sales, possession, and use are violations of
both state and federal laws; and because studies, which the city hereby accepts
and adopts, have shown that most smokers begin smoking before they have reached
the age of 18 years and that those persons who reach the age of 18 years
without having started smoking are significantly less likely to begin smoking;
and because smoking has been shown to be the cause of several serious health
problems which subsequently place a financial burden on all levels of
government; this chapter shall be intended to regulate the sale, possession and
use of tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices for the purpose
of enforcing and furthering existing laws, to protect minors against the
serious effects associated with the illegal use of tobacco, tobacco products,
and tobacco related devices, and to further the official public policy of the
state in regard to preventing young people from starting to smoke as stated in
M.S. § 144.391, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLIANCE CHECKS. The system the city uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices
are following and complying with the requirements of this chapter. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS shall involve the use of minors as authorized by this chapter.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS shall also mean the use of minors who attempt to purchase
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices for educational, research
and training purposes as authorized by state and federal laws. COMPLIANCE
CHECKS may also be conducted by other units of government for the purpose of
enforcing appropriate federal, state or local laws and regulations relating to
tobacco, tobacco products, and tobacco related devices.
   INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED. The practice of selling any tobacco or tobacco
product wrapped individually for sale. Individually wrapped tobacco and tobacco
products shall include but not be limited to single cigarette packs, single
bags or cans of loose tobacco in any form, and single cans or other packaging
of snuff or chewing tobacco. Cartons or other packaging containing more than a
single pack or other container as described in this definition shall not be
considered individually packaged.
   LOOSIES. The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigarette.
   MINOR. Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of 18 years.
   MOVEABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. Any form of business operated out of a truck,
van, automobile or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
   RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT. Any place of business where tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco related devices are available for sale to the general public. The
phrase shall include but not be limited to grocery stores, convenience stores
and restaurants.
   SALE. Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter or other consideration.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. Open displays of tobacco, tobacco products or
tobacco related devices in any manner where any person shall have access to the
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices, without the assistance
or intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee. The assistance or
intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco
product, or tobacco related device between the customer and the licensee or
employee. The phrase shall not include vending machines. Self-service sales are
interpreted as being any sale where there is not an actual physical exchange of
the tobacco between the clerk and the customer.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCTS. Any substance or item containing tobacco leaf,
including but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, pipe tobacco, snuff, fine cut
or other chewing tobacco, cheroots, stogies, perique, granulated, plug cut,
crimp cut, ready-rubbed, and other smoking tobacco, snuff flowers, cavendish,
shorts, plug and twist tobaccos, dipping tobaccos, refuse scraps, clippings,
cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco, and other kinds and forms of tobacco leaf
prepared in a manner as to be suitable for chewing, sniffing or smoking.
   TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES. Any tobacco product as well as a pipe, rolling
papers or other device intentionally designed or intended to be used in a
manner which enables the chewing, sniffing or smoking of tobacco or tobacco
products.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related devices
upon the insertion of money, tokens or other form of payment directly into the
machine by the person seeking to purchase the tobacco, tobacco product or
tobacco related device.
§ 112.03 LICENSE.
   (A)   License required. No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco,
tobacco products, or tobacco related device without first having obtained a
license to do so from the city.
   (B)   Application. An application for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco
products, or tobacco related devices shall be made on a form provided by the
city. The application shall contain the full name of the applicant, the
applicant's residential and business addresses and telephone numbers, the name
of the business for which the license is sought, and any additional information
the city deems necessary. Upon receipt of a completed application, the City
Clerk shall forward the application to the City Council for action at its next
regularly scheduled City Council meeting. If the City Clerk shall determine
that an application is incomplete, he or she shall return the application to
the applicant with notice of the information necessary to make the application
complete.
   (C)   Action. The City Council may either approve or deny the license, or it
may delay action for a reasonable period of time as necessary to complete any
investigation of the application or the applicant it deems necessary. If the
City Council shall approve the license, the City Clerk shall issue the license
to the applicant. If the City Council denies the license, notice of the denial
shall be given to the applicant along with notice of the applicant's right to
appeal the City Council's decision.
   (D)   Term. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid for one
calendar year from the date of issue.
   (E)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended as provided in §
112.99.
   (F)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this chapter shall be valid only
on the premises for which the license was issued and only for the person to
whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another location or
person shall be valid without the prior approval of the City Council.
   (G)   Moveable place of business. No license shall be issued to a moveable
place of business. Only fixed location businesses shall be eligible to be
licensed under this chapter.
   (H)   Display. All licenses shall be posted and displayed in plain view of
the general public on the licensed premise.
   (I)   Renewals. The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be
handled in the same manner as the original application. The request for a
renewal shall be made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the
expiration of the current license.
   (J)   Issuance as privilege and not a right. The issuance of a license
issued under this chapter shall be considered a privilege and not an absolute
right of the applicant and shall not entitle the holder to an automatic renewal
of the license.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 FEES.
   No license shall be issued under this chapter until the appropriate license
fee shall be paid in full. The fee for a license under this chapter shall be
established from time to time by the City Council.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license under this
chapter includes but is not limited to the following:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 18 years.
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted within the past five years of any
violation of a federal, state, or local law, ordinance provision, or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco products, or tobacco related devices.
      (3)   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products,
or tobacco related devices revoked within the preceding 12 months of the date
of application.
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information.
      (5)   The applicant is prohibited by federal, state, or other local law,
ordinance, or other regulation from holding a license.
   (B)   However, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the existence of
any particular ground for denial does not mean that the city must deny the
license.
   (C)   If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it shall be
revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the license under
this chapter.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.06 PROHIBITED SALES.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to
sell any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related device:
   (A)   To any person under the age of 18 years.
   (B)   By means of any type of vending machine, except as may otherwise be
provided in §
112.07.
   (C)   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
a make a verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premise in
order to receive the tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related device and
whereby the there is not a physical exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product,
or tobacco related device between the licensee, or the licensee's employee, and
the customer.
   (D)   By means of loosies as defined in §
112.02.
   (E)   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the
intention of this provision to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes
or other tobacco products.
   (F)   By any other means, to any other person, on in any other manner or
form prohibited by federal, state or other local law, ordinance provision, or
other regulation.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.07 VENDING MACHINES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person licensed under this chapter to allow the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices by the means of a
vending machine unless minors are at all times prohibited from entering the
licensed establishment.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.08 SELF-SERVICE SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee under this chapter to allow the sale of
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices by any means where by the
customer may have access to those items without having to request the item from
the licensee or the licensee's employee and whereby there is not a physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, or the tobacco related device between
the licensee or his or her clerk and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco
products, and tobacco related devices shall either be stored behind a counter
or other area not freely accessible to customers, or in a case or other storage
unit not left open and accessible to the general public. Any retailer selling
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices at the time this chapter
is adopted shall comply with this section within 90 days following the
effective date of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.09 RESPONSIBILITY.
   All licensees under this chapter shall be responsible for the actions of
their employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco
related devices on the licensed premises, and the sale of an item by an
employee shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this
section shall be construed as prohibiting the city from also subjecting the
clerk to whatever penalties are appropriate under this chapter, state or
federal law, or other applicable law or regulation.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.10 COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS.
   All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the city police or
other authorized city official during regular business hours. From time to
time, but at least once per year, the city shall conduct compliance checks by
engaging, with the written consent of their parents or guardians, minors over
the age of 15 years but less than 18 years to enter the licensed premise to
attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices.
Minors used for the purpose of compliance checks shall be supervised by city
designated law enforcement officers or other designated city personnel. Minors
used for compliance checks shall not be guilty of unlawful possession of
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices when those items are
obtained as a part of the compliance check. No minor used in compliance checks
shall attempt to use a false identification misrepresenting the minor's age,
and all minors lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all
questions about the minor's age asked by the licensee or his or her employee
and shall produce any identification, if any exists, for which he or she is
asked. Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by
state or federal laws for educational, research, or training purposes, or
required for the enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.11 OTHER ILLEGAL ACTS.
   Unless otherwise provided, the following acts shall be a violation of this
chapter:
   (A)   Illegal sales. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person
to sell or otherwise provide any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related
device to any minor.
   (B)   Illegal possession. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to have in his or her possession any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco
related device. This division (B) shall not apply to minors lawfully involved
in a compliance check.
   (C)   Illegal use. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any minor to
smoke, chew, snuff or otherwise use any tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco
related device.
   (D)   Illegal procurement. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any
minor to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any tobacco,
tobacco product or tobacco related device, and it shall be a violation of this
chapter for any person to purchase or otherwise obtain those items on behalf of
a minor. It shall further be a violation for any person to coerce or attempt to
coerce a minor to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any tobacco,
tobacco product, or tobacco related device. This division (D) shall not apply
to minors lawfully involved in a compliance check.
   (E)   Use of false identification. It shall be a violation of this chapter
for any minor to attempt to disguise his or her true age by the use of a false
form of identification, whether the identification is that of another person or
one on which the age of the person has been modified or tampered with to
represent an age older than the actual age of the person.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.12 EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the providing of tobacco, tobacco
products, or tobacco related devices to a minor as part of a lawfully
recognized religious, spiritual, or cultural ceremony. It shall be an
affirmative defense to the violation of this chapter for a person to have
reasonably relied on proof of age as described by state law.
§ 112.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations.
      (1)   Notice. Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged
violator shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets
forth the alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his
or her right to be heard on the accusation.
      (2)   Hearings. If a person accused of violating this chapter so
requests, a hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be
published and provided to the accused violator.
      (3)   Hearing Officer. The city official designated by the City Council
shall serve as the hearing officer.
      (4)   Decision. If the hearing officer determines that a violation of
this chapter did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officer's reasons
for finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under division (B) of
this section, shall be recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided
to the accused violator. Likewise, if the hearing officer finds that no
violation occurred or finds grounds for not imposing any penalty, those
findings shall be recorded and a copy provided to the acquitted accused
violator.
      (5)   Appeals. Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer shall
be filed in the district court for the city in which the alleged violation
occurred.
      (6)   Misdemeanor prosecution. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the
city from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any alleged violation of
this ordinance.
      (7)   Continued violation. Each violation, and every day in which a
violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Administrative penalties.
      (1)   Licensees. Any licensee found to have violated this chapter, or
whose employee shall have violated this chapter, shall be charged an
administrative fine of $75 for a first violation of this chapter; $200 for a
second offense at the same licensed premises within a 24-month period; and $250
for a third or subsequent offense at the same location within a 24-month
period. In addition, after the third offense, the license shall be suspended
for not less than seven days.
      (2)   Other individuals. Other individuals, other than minors regulated
by division (B)(3) of this section, found to be in violation of this chapter
shall be charged an administrative fine of $50.
      (3)   Minors. Minors found in unlawful possession of or who unlawfully
purchase or attempt to purchase, tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related
devices, shall be subject to an administrative fine, or may be subject to
tobacco related education classes, diversion programs, community services, or
another penalty that the city believes will be appropriate and effective. The
administrative fine or other penalty shall be established by City Council
ordinance upon the City Council's consultation with interested parties of the
courts, educators, parents and children to determine an appropriate penalty for
minors in the city. This administrative fine or other penalty may also be
established from time to time by the City Council and adopted pursuant to §
36.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Misdemeanor. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the city from
seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for any violation of this chapter.
      (5)   Statutory penalties. If the administrative penalties authorized to
be imposed by M.S. § 461.12, as it may be amended from time to time, differ
from those established in this section, then the statutory penalties shall
prevail.
CHAPTER 113: REGULATION OF PUBLIC DANCES AND SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
Public Dances
   
113.01   Regulation of public dances
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Permit required
   
113.04   Application for permit
   
113.05   Insurance
   
113.06   Location
   
113.07   Permit to be posted
   
113.08   Liquor license required
   
113.09   Licensed police officer presence
   
113.10   Hours
   
113.11   Minors prohibited
   
113.12   Certain behavior prohibited
   
113.13   Lighting
   
113.14   Noise
Special Events
   
113.20   Purpose and findings
   
113.21   Definitions
   
113.22   Permit required
   
113.23   Application for permit
   
113.24   Issuance of permit, conditions and posting
   
113.25   Exceptions to the permit
 
   
113.99   Penalty
PUBLIC DANCES
§ 113.01 REGULATION OF PUBLIC DANCES.
   All public dances held in this city shall be conducted in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms stated below shall have the following meanings:
   PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance where the general public may participate, whether or
not a charge for admission for dancing is made.
   PUBLIC DANCING PLACE. Any room or space or other area, whether indoors or
outside, which is open to the general public for the purpose of participating
in public dancing.
§ 113.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall conduct a public dance in this city unless a permit has been
obtained from the City Clerk prior to the holding of the dance. The fees for a
permit shall be as established from time to time by the City Council. In
addition to this fee, the applicant shall pay the cost to the city of providing
a licensed peace officer or officers to be present at the dance. The City
Council shall establish criteria for determining the number of licensed peace
officers required to be present at any dance. No permit shall be issued until
the fee and the cost for providing the peace officer or officers has been paid.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.04 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Any person desiring a permit to hold a public dance in this city shall
submit an application for a permit on the form provided by the City Clerk,
submitted to the City Clerk at least ten days before the date of the proposed
dance. The application shall set forth the name and address of the applicant,
who shall be the person responsible for conducting the public dance, and any
business, committee or organization sponsoring the dance, the place where the
dance is to be held, the date of the dance and the time of its beginning and
end. Proof of all insurance required by this chapter shall be submitted with
the application and no permit shall be issued until proof of insurance has been
received. A request for any use of a city building or other city property shall
be included with the permit application, and no permit shall be issued until
the fees for the use of the city building or other city property have also been
paid.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 INSURANCE.
   All insurance policies required for the event, including any insurance
required by law for the sale of alcoholic beverages, shall list the city as a
named insured and provide a provision to defend, indemnify and hold harmless
the city and any of its employees from any claims arising from the event.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.06 LOCATION.
   The applicant shall make sure that adequate parking is available for the
persons wishing to attend the dance and make sure that the location is safe and
accessible. This information shall also be provided to the City Clerk before a
permit shall be issued.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.07 PERMIT TO BE POSTED.
   When a permit is issued, the holder of the permit shall post the permit in a
prominent location on the premises on which the dance is to be held during the
time the dance is occurring. The applicant shall be present at all times while
the dance is occurring.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.08 LIQUOR LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall give, hold, conduct or permit any public dance where liquor
will be served, as defined in M.S. Ch. 340A, without obtaining a license from
the city.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.09 LICENSED PEACE OFFICER PRESENCE.
   No public dance shall occur without at least one licensed peace officer or
more, if more are required under the criteria established by the City Council,
who shall be present at the public dancing place during the duration of the
dance and after the dance, until all of the participants have left the public
dancing place.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.10 HOURS.
   No public dance shall occur between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.11 MINORS PROHIBITED.
   No person under the age of 21 shall be allowed to be present by the permit
holder or any peace officer at a public dance where alcohol is sold or
consumed, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.12 CERTAIN BEHAVIOR PROHIBITED.
   No person present at any public dance shall engage in any disorderly
conduct, as defined by M.S. § 609.72, as it may be amended from time to time,
and any disorderly person shall be immediately removed from the dance by the
peace officer present at the public dancing place. Should a substantial number
of persons at the public dance engage in disorderly conduct, the peace officer
present shall terminate the dance and remove all persons from the public
dancing place.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.13 LIGHTING.
   In order to protect the safety of persons attending a public dance, public
dancing places shall be adequately illuminated and dancing therein while lights
are extinguished, dimmed or turned low so as to give inadequate or imperfect
illumination is hereby prohibited. All exit areas shall be illuminated at all
times during the public dance with light having intensity of not less than one
footcandle at floor level. Illumination of less than 0.5 foot-candles in any
area where dancing is occurring, permitted or encouraged is prohibited.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.14 NOISE.
   All public dances shall be subject to the provisions of this code regulating
noise.
Penalty, see §
113.99
SPECIAL EVENTS
§ 113.20 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and welfare of
the citizens of this city by regulating the time, place and manner of conduct
of special events and by establishing permit requirements for conducting
special events as such are herein defined. The City Council finds that special
events often exceed the city's capacity to provide usual city services. These
city services include, but are not limited to sanitary, fire, police and
utility services. The City Council also finds these regulations necessary to
ensure that such events are conducted with sufficient consideration given to
public safety issues, including, among other things, the impact of these events
on parking and vehicular traffic within the city.
§ 113.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. A natural person, association, organization, club, group formed for
a common purpose, partnership of any kind, limited liability company,
corporation or any other legal entity.
   SPECIAL EVENTS. An outdoor gathering of at least 25 individuals, whether on
public or private property, assembled with a common purpose for a period of one
hour or longer. SPECIAL EVENTS include, but are not limited to concerts, fairs,
carnivals, circuses, parades, flea markets, marathons, walkathons, festivals,
races, bicycle events, celebrations or any other gathering or events of similar
nature. SPECIAL EVENTS do not include noncommercial events held on private
property, such as graduation parties or social parties.
§ 113.22 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall hold, conduct or participate in a special event within the
city, unless a permit has been issued for such event upon timely written
application made to the city.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.23 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Written application for special event permits must be made at least 30 days
in advance of the event's proposed date in a form prescribed by the City
Council. This application period shall not begin to run until a complete
application has been filed with the city. Application forms shall be made
available in the office of the City Administrator. A fee, in the amount
established from time to time by the City Council, shall be paid to the city
along with the completed application form. In addition to the fee, the
applicant shall pay all additional costs incurred by the city as a direct
result of the special event. Failure to provide a complete application or to
pay the fee, as herein required, is sufficient reason to deny the special event
permit.
§ 113.24 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT, CONDITIONS AND POSTING.
   (A)   Special event permits will be issued upon City Council approval. The
Council may attach reasonable conditions to the permit as are deemed necessary
to protect the health, safety and welfare. Such conditions may pertain to any
of the following:
      (1)   Location and hours during which the event may be held;
      (2)   Sanitation/availability of potable water;
      (3)   Security/crowd management;
      (4)   Parking and traffic issues;
      (5)   Emergency and medical services;
      (6)   Clean-up of premises and surrounding area/trash disposal;
      (7)   Insurance;
      (8)   Lighting;
      (9)   Fire service/safety;
      (10)   Temporary construction, barricades/fencing;
      (11)   Removal of advertising/promotional materials;
      (12)   Noise levels;
      (13)   Alcohol consumption;
      (14)   Any other conditions which the Council deems necessary.
   (B)   Upon Council approval, the City Clerk shall issue a permit to the
person(s) named in the permit application. The permit shall clearly state the
conditions, if any, imposed by the Council. Copies of the permit shall be
posted in three prominent locations during the special event.
Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.25 EXCEPTIONS TO THE PERMIT.
   The permit requirement contained in this chapter does not apply to the
following:
   (A)   Special events sponsored and managed by the city;
   (B)   Funerals and funeral processions;
   (C)   The grounds of any school, playground, place of worship, hotel
conference center, stadium, athletic field, arena, auditorium or similar
permanent place of assembly when used for regularly established assembly
purposes.
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any permit holder violating any of the provisions of this chapter
relating to public dances shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished as
provided in §
10.99, and their public dance permit is suspended immediately at the time of
any arrest or citation for violating this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates any condition of a special event permit
or any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as
prescribed by §
10.99.
      (2)   Enforcement of this division may, at the Council's discretion, take
any of the following forms:
         (a)   Citation/criminal prosecution;
         (b)   Injunctions, declaratory judgements or other civil remedies;
         (c)   Permit revocation;
         (d)   Disbursement of persons gathered.
CHAPTER 114: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
114.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
114.04   License ineligibility
   
114.05   License suspension and revocation
   
114.06   License transferability
   
114.07   Registration
   
114.08   Prohibited activities
   
114.09   Exclusion by placard
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
HAWKER.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the City Hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for
more than 14 consecutive days.
§ 114.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
PEDDLER, SOLICITOR, and TRANSIENT MERCHANT shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold by
the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes initial
contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, and TRANSIENT MERCHANTS,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or restrict
door-to-door advocacy. Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be
required to register as solicitors under §
114.07. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
§ 114.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S.
Chapter 329 as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a
license for the activity.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need
not be licensed, but are still required to register pursuant to §
114.07.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for a
license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the City Clerk. All applications shall be signed by the
applicant. All applications shall include the following information.
      (1)   Applicant’s full legal name.
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers.
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like).
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence.
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence.
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent.
      (7)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business (if any).
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant.
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license.
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license.
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive days).
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business.
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses.
      (14)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant.
      (15)   Proof of any requested county license.
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant.
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided.
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council.
      (19)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification.
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the fee schedule, §
36.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk, within two regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk
determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk must inform the
applicant of the required necessary information that is missing. If the
application is complete, the City Clerk must order any investigation, including
background checks, necessary to verify the information provided with the
application. Within ten regular business days of receiving a complete
application, the City Clerk must issue the license unless there exist grounds
for denying the license under §
114.04, in which case the Clerk must deny the license. If the City Clerk denies
the license, the applicant must be notified in writing of the decision, the
reason for denial, and of the applicant’s right to appeal the denial by
requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing
before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days
of the date of the request. The decision of the City Council following the
public hearing can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals
for a writ of certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted under
this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person’s
state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press,
religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person’s
exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fund raisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license.
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application.
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person’s
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not be limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person.
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or
transient merchant.
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Attorney General’s Office, or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints
filed against the applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 114.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or incorrect statements on the application
form.
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statements made during the course
of the licensed activity.
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under §
114.05.
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C) of
this section, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If
no request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk within ten regular
business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with
the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall
be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be
scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.07 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements
of this chapter under §
114.03, shall be required to register with the city.
   (B)   Persons engaging in door-to-door advocacy shall not be required to
register. The term DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCACY includes door-to-door canvassing and
pamphleteering as vehicles for the dissemination of religious, political and
other ideas.
   (C)   Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license
application, but no fee shall be required.
   (D)   Immediately upon completion of the registration form, the City Clerk
shall issue to the registrant a certificate of registration as proof of the
registration.
   (E)   Certificates of registration shall be non-transferable.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.08 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall conduct business in any of
the following manners.
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure.
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public right-of-way.
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public.
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person.
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person.
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.09 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors or Transient Merchants,” or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient
Merchants Prohibited,” or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface or otherwise tamper with any sign
or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 115: FIREWORKS
Section
   
115.01   License required
   
115.02   Application
   
115.03   Fee
§ 115.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall use or explode any fireworks as defined in M.S. § 624.20, as
it may be amended from time to time, without a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 303.07.1) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.02 APPLICATION.
   Every application for a license shall be made in writing to the Clerk at
least 15 days in advance of the date of the display. The application shall be
promptly referred to the Fire Marshal, who shall make an investigation to
determine whether the operator of the display is competent and whether the
display is of a character and is to be so located, discharged, or fired that it
will not be hazardous to property or endanger any person. The Fire Marshal
shall report his or her findings of this investigation to the Clerk and if he
or she reports that in his or her opinion the operator is competent and that
the display as planned will conform to safety requirements, including the rules
and regulations of the State Fire Marshal, the Clerk shall issue a license for
the display.
(Prior Code, § 303.07.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.03 FEE.
    The license shall not be issued until a fee, as set forth in the current
city fee schedule, is paid for each day of display.
(Prior Code, § 303.07.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 116: EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   License required
   
116.03   Permit required
   
116.04   Application
   
116.05   Affirmation
   
116.06   Issuance of a license or permit to certain persons prohibited
   
116.07   Transfer
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXPLOSIVE. Any compound or mixture, the primary or common purpose of which
is to function by explosion; that is, with substantially instantaneous release
of gas and heat; but shall not mean or include the components for hand loading
rifle, pistol and shotgun ammunition, black powder, primers, and fuses when
used for ammunition and components for antique or replica muzzle loading
rifles, pistols, muskets, shotguns and cannons, or fireworks as defined in M.S.
§ 624.20, as it shall be amended from time to time, nor shall it include any
fertilizer product possessed, used, or sold solely for a legitimate
agricultural, forestry, conservation or horticultural purposes, or petroleum
products used in internal combustion engines.
   EXPLOSIVE DEVICE. Any device so articulated that an ignition by fire, by
friction, by concussion, or by detonation of any part thereof may cause the
sudden generation of highly heated gases that the resultant gaseous pressures
are capable of producing destructive effect, but shall not mean or include the
components for hand loading rifles, pistols and shotguns ammunition and/or
rifles, pistols and shotguns and cannons, or fireworks as defined in M.S. §
624.20, as it shall be amended from time to time, nor shall it include any
fertilizer product possessed, used or sold solely for legitimate agricultural,
forestry, conservation, or horticultural purposes.
   INCENDIARY DEVICE. Any device so articulated that the ignition by fire,
friction, concussion, detonation, or other method may produce destructive
effects primarily through combustion rather than explosion, but shall not mean
or include a manufactured device or article in common use by the general public
which is designed to produce combustion for a lawful purpose, including but not
limited to matches, lighters, flares, and petroleum derivatives, nor shall it
include any fertilizer product possessed, used or sold solely for legitimate
agricultural, forestry, conservation, or horticultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 303.09.1)
§ 116.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall manufacture, assemble, warehouse or store explosives for
purposes of wholesale or retail sale, or for any other purpose other than for
ultimate consumption without being licensed to do so by the State Fire Marshal.
(Prior Code, § 303.09.2) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall have in his or her possession explosives, unless the person
shall have obtained a valid permit for the use of explosives as hereinafter
provided. The transportation of an explosive by a common carrier, for hire,
shall not be deemed to be possession of an explosive for purposes of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 303.09.3) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.04 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring to possess explosives, other than a person
licensed as provided herein, shall make application for a permit for the use of
explosives to the Chief of the Fire Department.
   (B)   The application shall require the applicant’s name, address, purpose
for acquiring explosives, place of intended acquisition, quantity required,
place and time of intended use, place and means of storage until the use and
whether the applicant is a person to whom no permit may be issued pursuant to §
116.06 hereunder. Any person aggrieved by the denial of a permit may request a
hearing before the State Fire Marshal. The provisions of M.S. Chapter 14, as
they shall be amended from time to time, shall apply to the hearings and
subsequent proceedings, if any.
(Prior Code, § 303.09.4) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.05 AFFIRMATION.
   (A)   (1)   A license or an explosives use permit shall have printed thereon
a statement underlined that the applicant affirms under penalty of perjury that
the information provided hereon is true to the best of his or her knowledge and
belief.
      (2)   No license or permit shall be issued unless the applicant signs the
application.
   (B)   (1)   Each license or permit issued pursuant to this act shall be
designated by number and shall otherwise be sufficient to identify the licensee
or permitee.
      (2)   A duplicate of the license or permit shall be retained by the
issuing authority.
      (3)   A license or permit shall not be issued for a period of time
greater than one year, but may be issued for shorter periods.
(Prior Code, § 303.09.5) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.06 ISSUANCE OF A LICENSE OR PERMIT TO CERTAIN PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   The following persons shall not be entitled to receive an explosives license
or permit.
   (A)   Any person who within the past five years has been convicted of a
felony or gross misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, is on parole or
probation therefor, or is currently under indictment for any similar crime.
   (B)   Any mentally ill person or any mentally deficient person as defined in
M.S. § 2534.02, as it may be amended from time to time, who has been confined
or committed in Minnesota or elsewhere for a mental disorder or defect in any
hospital, mental institution or sanitarium, or who has been certified by a
medical doctor as being mentally ill or mentally deficient, unless he or she
possesses a certificate of a medical doctor or psychiatrist licensed to
practice in this state, or other satisfactory proof that he or she is no longer
suffering from this disability.
   (C)   Any person who is or has been hospitalized or committed for treatment
for the habitual use of a narcotic drug, as defined in M.S. Chapter 152, as it
may be amended from time to time, or a depressant or stimulant drug, as defined
in the M.S. §§ 152.01 and 152.02, as they may be amended from time to time, or
who has been certified by a medical doctor as being addicted to narcotic drugs
or depressant or stimulant drugs, unless he or she possesses a certificate of a
medical doctor or psychiatrist licensed to practice in this state, or other
satisfactory proof, that he or she is no longer suffering from this disability.
   (D)   Any person who, by reason of the habitual and excessive use of
intoxicating liquors is incapable of managing himself or herself or his or her
affairs or who has been confined or committed to any hospital, mental
institution or sanitarium in this state or elsewhere as an “inebriate person”
as defined in M.S. § 253B.02, as it may be amended from time to time, or who
has been certified by a medical doctor as being addicted to alcohol unless he
or she possesses a certificate of a medical doctor or psychiatrist licensed to
practice in this state, or other satisfactory proof that he or she is no longer
suffering from this disability.
   (E)   Any person under the age of 21 years.
(Prior Code, § 303.09.6) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.07 TRANSFER.
   No person shall transfer explosives to another unless the transferee shall
display to the transferror a copy of a valid license or use permit and proper
identification, and unless the transferee shall present to the transferror a
signed standardized form provided by the Commissioner of Public Safety,
acknowledging receipt of the quantity of explosives transferred, the
identifying numbers.
(Prior Code, § 303.09.7) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 117: ADULT ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
117.01   Findings and purpose
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   Location
   
117.04   Licensing of existing establishments
   
117.05   License required
   
117.06   Sign restrictions
   
117.07   State law
   
117.08   Exception for theatrical performances
 
   
117.99   Penalty
§ 117.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   Studies conducted by the Minnesota Attorney General and the Texas City
Attorneys' Association, as well as the cities of St. Paul, Alexandria, and
Rochester, Minnesota; Indianapolis, Indiana; Phoenix, Arizona; Los Angeles,
California; Seattle, Washington; St. Croix County, Wisconsin; Adams County and
the City of Denver, Colorado, have examined the impact that adult
establishments have on their respective communities. These studies concluded
that adult establishments have an adverse impact on surrounding neighborhoods.
Those impacts include increased crime rates, lower property values, increased
transiency, neighborhood blight and potential health risks. The City Council of
the City of Harris is relying on the studies, many of which were conducted in
larger cities, recognizing that the same or similar adverse impacts could occur
in a small city such as the City of Harris. Based on these studies, the City
Council makes the following findings regarding the need to regulate adult
establishments:
   (A)   The public health, safety, morals and general welfare will be promoted
by the city adopting regulations governing adult establishments.
   (B)   Adult establishments have adverse secondary impacts of the types set
forth above.
   (C)   The adverse impacts caused by adult establishments tend to diminish if
adult establishments are governed by location requirements, licensing
requirements and health requirements.
   (D)   It is not the intent to prohibit adult establishments from having a
reasonable opportunity to locate in the city.
   (E)   Many members of the public perceive areas within which adult
establishments are located as less safe than other areas that do not have such
uses.
   (F)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to place
the burden of reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators of the
adult establishment. A licensing procedure will place an incentive on the
operators to see that the adult establishment is run in a manner consistent
with the health, safety and welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as
the citizens of the city. It is appropriate to require reasonable assurances
that the licensee is the actual operator of the sexually-oriented business,
fully in possession and control of the premises and activities occurring
therein.
   (G)   The fact that an applicant for an adult use license has been convicted
of a sexually-related crime leads to the rational assumption that the applicant
may engage in that conduct in contravention of this chapter.
   (H)   The barring of individuals with sexually-related criminal convictions
from the management of adult establishments for a period of years serves as a
deterrent to and prevents conduct which may lead to the transmission of
sexually-transmitted diseases.
   (I)   The general health, safety, and welfare of the community is promoted
by prohibiting nudity in adult establishments. This prohibition is based on
concerns of potential adverse effects such as prostitution, the transmission of
sexually transmitted diseases, exposure to minors, obscenity and unsanitary
conditions in public places.
   (J)   Small cities experience many of the same adverse impacts of adult
establishments present in larger communities.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. Any business that:
      (1)   Devotes a substantial or significant portion of its inventory,
stock-in-trade, or publicly-displayed merchandise, or devotes a substantial or
significant portion of its floor area (not including storerooms, stock areas,
bathrooms, basements, or any portion of the business not open to the public)
to, or derives a substantial or significant portion of its gross revenues from
items, merchandise, devices or other materials distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on material depicting, exposing, simulating, describing, or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Engages in any adult use as defined in this section.
   ADULT USE. Any of the activities and businesses described below:
      (1)   ADULT BOOKSTORE OR VIDEOSTORE. An establishment or business used
for the barter, rental, or sale of items consisting of printed matter,
pictures, slides, records, audio tape, videotape, movies, or motion picture
film if a substantial or significant portion of its inventory, stock-in- trade,
or publicly-displayed merchandise consists of, or if a substantial or
significant portion of its floor area (not including storerooms, stock areas,
bathrooms, basements, or any portion of the business not open to the public) is
devoted to, or if substantial or significant portion of its gross revenues is
derived from items, merchandise, devices or materials that are distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on material depicting, exposing, simulating,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
      (2)   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT CENTER. A business or establishment that
provides dancing or other live entertainment distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on the presentation, display, or depiction of "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      (3)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A business or establishment that
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion between an employee of the establishment and a customer, if such
service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual
activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      (4)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A business or establishment that
provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or
discussion, if such service is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
"specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      (5)   ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club, which is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities"
or "specified anatomical areas."
      (6)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel wherein material is
presented which is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to "specified sexual activities" or
"specified anatomical areas."
      (7)   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
which provides the services of massage, if such service is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified
anatomical areas."
      (8)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A motion picture theater that as a
prevailing practice presents movies distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas" for
observation by patrons.
      (9)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. An establishment whose major business is the
provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided with the intent
of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such customers and
who engage in "specified sexual activities" or display "specified anatomical
areas" while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted by such customers.
      (10)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited wherein coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors or other image-producing devices are maintained to show
images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the
images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
depicting or describing "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical
areas."
      (11)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has as a principal
activity the sale of devices which stimulate human genitals or devices which
are designed for sexual stimulation.
      (12)   ADULT SAUNA. A sauna that provides a steam bath or heat bathing
room used for the purpose of bathing, relaxation or reducing, utilizing steam
or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided
by the sauna is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on "specified
sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
      (13)   ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, utilizing steam or hot
air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent if the service provided by the
steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis
on "specified sexual activities" or "specified anatomical areas."
   NUDE or SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   The showing of the human male or female genitals, pubic area, or
anus with less than a fully opaque covering; the showing of the female breast
with less than a fully opaque covering of any part of the nipple; the exposure
of any device, costume, or covering which gives the appearance of or simulates
the genitals, pubic hair, natal cleft, perineum anal region or pubic hair
region; or the exposure of any device worn as a cover over the nipples and/or
areola of the female breast, which device simulates and gives the realistic
appearance of nipples and/or areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals, flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship, or the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship, and any of the following sexually-oriented acts or conduct:
anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus, fellatio,
necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, zooerasty; or
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence; or
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus
or masturbation; or
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic region, buttocks
or female breast; or
      (5)   Situations involving a person or person, any of whom are nude, clad
in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, and who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such person; or
      (6)   Actual or simulated erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other
sexually-oriented contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation.
   SUBSTANTIAL or SIGNIFICANT PORTION. Twenty percent or more.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-8-2010; Am. Ord. 2011-02, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 117.03 LOCATION.
   Adult establishments may only be located as permitted in §
154.14(G) of this code.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-8-2010) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.04 LICENSING OF EXISTING ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Adult establishments operating before the effective date of this chapter
shall be subject to all of the licensing requirements in this chapter, except
that such pre-existing establishments may continue to operate with any
intoxicating liquor, beer or wine license obtained before the effective date of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-8-2010) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm or corporation shall own or operate an adult establishment
without having first secured a license as provided for in this chapter.
   (A)   Applications. The application for an adult establishment license shall
be submitted on a form provided by the city and shall include:
      (1)   The name, residence, phone number and birth date of the applicant,
if an individual; and if a corporation or partnership, the names, residences,
phone number and birth dates of each partner and all officers, directors, and
controlling stockholders for the business;
      (2)   The name, address, phone number and birth date of the manager of
such operation, if different from the owners;
      (3)   Whether the applicant has ever used or has been known by a name
other than the applicant's name, and if so, the name or names used and
information concerning dates and places where used;
      (4)   The address and legal description of the premises where the adult
establishment is to be located;
      (5)   A statement detailing each gross misdemeanor or felony relating to
a sex offense, obscenity offense or offense related to the operation of adult
uses and related activities of which the applicant, or in the case of a
corporation or partnership, the owners, partners, officers, directors and
controlling stockholders have been convicted, and whether or not the applicant
has ever applied for or held a license to operate a similar type of business in
other communities;
      (6)   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
      (7)   The hours of operation, which shall be limited to Monday through
Saturday, 10:00 a.m. through 12:00 midnight;
      (8)   The provisions made to restrict access by minors; and
      (9)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations
and activities.
   (B)   License fees.
      (1)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt
from the city for payment in full of the required fee for the license. All fees
shall be paid into the general fund of the municipality. Upon rejection of any
applications for a license, the Finance Director shall refund the amount paid.
      (2)   All licenses shall expire on the last day of December in each year.
Each license shall be issued for a period of one year, except that if a portion
of the license year has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be
issued for the remainder of the year for a pro rated fee. In computing such
fee, any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one month.
      (3)   The annual license fee for adult establishments shall be in the
amount as set forth in the current city fee schedule.
      (4)   No part of the fee paid for any license shall be refunded except in
the following instances upon application to the City Council within 30 days
from the happening of the event. There shall be refunded a pro rata portion of
the fee for the unexpired period of the license, computed on a monthly basis,
when operation of the licensed business ceases not less than one month before
expiration of the license because of:
         (a)   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
         (b)   The licensee's illness;
         (c)   The licensee's death; or
         (d)   A change in the legal status making it unlawful for the licensed
business to continue.
   (C)   Granting of license.
      (1)   The city council, or such persons as they designate, must complete
their investigation within 30 days after the city council administrator
receives a complete application and all license and investigative fees.
      (2)   If the application is for a renewal, the applicant shall be allowed
to continue business until the City Council has determined to renew or refuse
to renew a license.
      (3)   If, after such investigation, it appears that the applicant and the
place proposed for the business are eligible for a license under the criteria
set forth in this subsection, then the license shall be issued by the City
Council within 30 days after the investigation is completed. Otherwise the
license shall be denied.
      (4)   Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and shall not be
transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only for the
premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to another
premise without the approval of the City Council. If the licensee is a
partnership or a corporation, a change in identity of any of the principals of
the partnership or corporation shall be deemed a transfer of the license. All
adult establishments existing at the time of the adoption of this division
shall be required to obtain an annual license.
      (5)   An applicant for any license under this section shall deposit with
the city at the time an original application is submitted, an amount as set
forth in the current city fee schedule to cover the costs involved in verifying
the license application and to cover the expense of any investigation needed to
assure compliance with this section. If the investigation and verification
process is conducted outside the State of Minnesota, the city may require the
actual investigation costs not exceeding the amount set fort in the current
city fee schedule.
   (D)   Persons ineligible for license. No license shall be granted to or held
by any person:
      (1)   Under 18 years old;
      (2)   Who has been convicted of a felony or of violating any federal law,
state law or local ordinance relating to sex offenses, obscenity offenses or
adult establishments, unless the applicant can show competent evidence of
sufficient rehabilitation under M.S. § 364.05, Subd. 3;
      (3)   Who is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the
license is issued;
      (4)   Who has failed to supply all of the information requested on the
license application;
      (5)   Who gives false, fraudulent, or untruthful information on the
license application;
      (6)   Who has not paid the required license fee;
      (7)   Who has been denied a license by the city or any other Minnesota
municipal corporation to operate an adult establishment, or such license has
been suspended or revoked, within the preceding 12 months.
   (E)   Places ineligible for license.
      (1)   No license shall be granted for adult establishments on any
premises where the owner or the applicant has been convicted of a violation of
this chapter, or where any license hereunder has been revoked for cause, until
one year has elapsed after such conviction or revocation.
      (2)   Except for uses lawfully existing at the time of this ordinance
adoption, no license shall be granted for any adult establishment which is not
in compliance with the city's zoning regulations or applicable building code.
      (3)   Establishments holding an intoxicating liquor, beer or wine license
are ineligible for a license.
      (4)   No license shall be granted for operation on any premises upon
which taxes, assessment, or installments thereof, or other financial claims of
the city, are owed by the applicant and are delinquent and unpaid.
   (F)   Conditions of license.
      (1)   Every license shall be granted subject to the following conditions
and all other provisions of this chapter, and of any applicable sections of the
code of the city, state law, or federal law, which ever is more restrictive.
      (2)   All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a
conspicuous place at all times.
      (3)   No minor shall be permitted on the licensed premises.
      (4)   Any designated inspection officer of the city shall have the
unqualified right to enter, inspect and search the premises of a licensee
during business hours.
      (5)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his or her
place of business and shall maintain conditions of order.
      (6)   An adult establishment shall not sell or dispense non-intoxicating
or intoxicating liquors nor shall it be located in a building which contains a
business that sells or dispenses non-intoxicating or intoxicating liquors.
   (G)   Additional conditions for adult entertainment centers. In addition to
all other conditions set forth in this chapter, the following conditions apply
to adult entertainment centers.
      (1)   No owner, operator or manager of an adult entertainment center
shall permit or allow any dancer or other live entertainer to perform nude.
      (2)   No dancer, live entertainer, patron or any other person may be nude
in an adult entertainment center.
      (3)   No dancer, live entertainer or performer shall be under 18 years
old.
      (4)   All dancing or live entertainment shall occur on a platform
intended for that purpose and which is raised at least two feet from the level
of the floor.
      (5)   No dancer or performer shall fondle, touch, or caress any patron
and no patron shall fondle, touch, or caress any dancer or performer.
      (6)   No patron shall pay or give any gratuity directly to any dancer or
performer.
      (7)   No dancer or performer shall solicit any pay or gratuity from any
patron.
      (8)   Partitions facilitating sexual activity. A licensee under this
section shall not allow any partition between a subdivision, portion, or part
of the licensed premises having any aperture which is designed or constructed
to facilitate sexual intercourse, sodomy, or fondling or other erotic touching
of human genitals, pubic region or pubic hair, buttocks, or female breast
between persons on either side of the partition.
      (9)   Restrictions on booths, stalls, and partitions. A licensee under
this section shall not allow or have on the licensed premises or adjoining
areas any booths, stalls, or partitions used for the viewing of motion pictures
or other forms of entertainment, including but not limited to live
entertainment that have doors, curtains, or portal partitions, unless such
booths, stalls, or partitions have at least one side open to an adjacent public
room so that the area inside is visible to persons in the adjacent public room.
Such areas shall be lighted in a manner that the persons in the area used for
viewing motion pictures or other forms of entertainment are visible from the
adjacent public rooms. No reclining surfaces inside any booths, stalls, or
partitions used for the viewing of motion pictures or other forms of
entertainment including but not limited to live entertainment shall be
permitted.
   (H)   Suspension and revocation.
      (1)   Any violation of this chapter shall be a basis for the suspension
or revocation of any license granted hereunder. In the event that the City
Council proposes to revoke or suspend the license, the licensee shall be
notified in writing of the basis for such proposed revocation or suspension.
The Council shall hold a hearing for the purpose of determining whether to
revoke or suspend the license, which hearing shall be within 30 days of the
notice.
      (2)   The City Council shall determine whether to suspend or revoke a
license within 30 days after the close of the hearing or within 60 days of the
date of the notice, whichever is sooner, and shall notify the licensee of its
decision within that period.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-8-2010) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.06 SIGN RESTRICTIONS.
   In order to protect children from exposure to lurid signs and materials and
in order to preserve the value of property surrounding sexually oriented
businesses, the sign regulations contained in §
153.106 shall apply to all establishments subject to this chapter, in addition
to all other regulations contained in §§
153.090 through
153.106.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-8-2010) Penalty, see §
117.99
§ 117.07 STATE LAW.
   M.S. § 617.242 shall not apply in the city.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-8-2010)
§ 117.08 EXCEPTION FOR THEATRICAL PERFORMANCES.
   This chapter does not apply to theaters, concert halls, art centers,
museums, or similar venues that are primarily devoted to the arts or theatrical
performances.
(Ord. 2011-02, passed 1-10-2011)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more than the maximum
penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
(Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-8-2010)
CHAPTER 118: GAMBLING
Section
   
118.01   Purpose
   
118.02   Adoption of state statutes and rules
   
118.03   Permit approval required
   
118.04   Applications
   
118.05   Regulations and restrictions
   
118.06   City fund contribution
   
118.07   Permit denial or revocation
 
   
118.99   Penalty
§ 118.01 PURPOSE.
   To ensure that charitable gambling in the city is conducted by organizations
licensed or exempt from licensing under Minnesota Statutes and that the
proceeds from such gambling are used primarily for the betterment of the
residents and businesses of the community. These restrictions shall be no less
restrictive than Minnesota Statutes or regulations and shall apply to all forms
of lawful gambling.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 118.02 ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES AND RULES.
   The provisions of M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.23, and rules adopted pursuant
to the authority contained in such statutes, are hereby adopted by reference
and are incorporated in this chapter as completely as if set out in full.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 118.03 PERMIT APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any organization to conduct lawful gambling in the city
without a permit approved annually by the city council.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 118.04 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications to conduct lawful gambling shall be considered and
approved by the council at regular meetings.
   (B)   Only applications submitted by eligible organizations will be
considered for approval by the Council.
   (C)   An investigative fee may be required in accordance with M.S. § 349.16,
Subd 8. The fee shall be in the amount set forth in the current city fee
schedule.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 118.05 REGULATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   In addition to regulations imposed by the state, all information and reports
required to be submitted to the state shall also be submitted to the city, both
with the application and on an annual basis.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 118.06 CITY FUND CONTRIBUTION.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 349.213, Subd 1(f)(2), organizations conducting lawful
gambling within the city must contribute 10% of their net profits derived from
lawful gambling conducted at premises within the city to a fund administered
and regulated by the city without costs to such fund, for disbursement by the
city of the receipts for lawful purposes, or police, fire, and other emergency
or public safety related services, equipment and training, excluding pension
obligations, pursuant to M.S. § 349.12, Subd. 7a, as it may be amended from
time to time. For purposes of this section, net profits are gross profits less
amounts expended for allowable expenses and paid in taxes assessed on lawful
gambling. Payment under this section shall be made on the last day of each
month.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 118.07 PERMIT DENIAL OR REVOCATION.
   The Council may, for any reasonable cause, refuse to grant any application
or revoke any permit. No permit shall be granted to a person of questionable
moral character or business reputation. Before revocation of any permit, the
Council shall give notice to the permit holder and grant such permit holder
opportunity to be heard. Notice to be given and the exact time of hearing shall
be stated in the resolution calling for such hearing.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-14-2014)
§ 118.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter or the statutes or rules
adopted by reference in this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished in accordance with §
10.99.
(Ord. 2014-02, passed 4-14-2014)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
         
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
         
133.   RESIDENCY OF PREDATORY OFFENDERS
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
130.01   Adoption by reference of provisions of Minnesota Criminal Code
   
130.02   Copy to be filed in office of City Clerk
§ 130.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE OF PROVISIONS OF MINNESOTA CRIMINAL CODE.
   The following provisions of the Minnesota Criminal Code, being M.S. Chapter
609, as it may be amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference
and the provisions thereof thus incorporated shall be as much a part of this
code as if they had been set forth in full herein.
M.S. Code Section Violation
M.S. Code Section Violation
609.221 et seq.   Assault
609.27            Coercion
609.34            Fornication
609.475           Impersonating an officer
609.485           Escape from custody
609.50            Obstructing legal process
609.505           Falsely reporting crime
609.51            Simulating legal process
609.52            Theft where the value of the property or service is $100 or
                  less
609.53            Receiving stolen property
609.535           Dishonored checks
609.545           Misusing credit card to secure service
609.565 et seq.   Simple arson, except the penalty is limited to a misdemeanor
609.57 et seq.    Attempted arson, limited to a misdemeanor
609.575 et seq.   Negligent fires
609.595           Damage to property, except that the penalty is limited to a
                  misdemeanor
609.605           Trespass
609.6055          Trespass on critical service facility; utility; or pipeline
609.615           Defeating security on realty
609.621           Proof of concealment of property by obligator of secured
                  property
609.66            Dangerous weapons
609.675           Exposure of unused refrigerator or container to children
609.68            Unlawful deposit of garbage litter
609.705           Unlawful assembly
609.715           Presence at an unlawful assembly
609.72            Disorderly conduct
609.74            Public nuisance
609.744 et seq.   Fraudulent long distance telephone calls
609.744 et seq.   Making anonymous telephone calls
609.755           Acts of or relating to gambling
 
(Prior Code, § 402.01)
§ 130.02 COPY TO BE FILED IN OFFICE OF CITY CLERK.
   One copy of the Criminal Code shall be marked by the City Clerk as an
official copy and filed for use and examination by the public in the office of
the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 402.02)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
131.01   Trespass
   
131.02   Unnecessary acceleration
Firearms
   
131.15   Minors
   
131.16   [Reserved]
   
131.17   Concealed weapons
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 131.01 TRESPASS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter upon the premises of another if
he or she has been given oral or written notice not to, or if the premises are
clearly marked with “no trespassing” signs posted so as to be in plain view
along all routes of access to the premises, unless the entry is upon official
business of government agency or public utility.
(Prior Code, § 402.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.02 UNNECESSARY ACCELERATION.
   (A)   No person shall start or accelerate any motor vehicle with an
unnecessary exhibition of speed on any public or private way within the city
limits.
   (B)   Prima facie evidence of an unnecessary exhibition of speed shall be
unreasonable squealing or screeching sounds omitted by the tires or the
throwing of sand and gravel by the tires of the vehicle, or both.
(Prior Code, § 402.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
FIREARMS
§ 131.15 MINORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 14 years of age to
handle, or have in his or her possession or under his or her control, except
while accompanied by or under the immediate charge of his or her parents or
guardian, any firearm, air gun or B.B. gun of any kind for hunting or target,
practice or any other purpose, within the city.
   (B)   Any person aiding or knowingly permitting any minor, as mentioned
above, violate the same, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 402.04) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.16 [RESERVED].
§ 131.17 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   No person shall carry or otherwise have in his or her immediate possession a
firearm which is in any manner concealed from view, provided, that this section
shall not apply to persons authorized or otherwise legally permitted to do so.
(Prior Code, § 402.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
132.01   Possession, purchase and/or deliver of barbiturates and other
prohibited drugs
   
132.02   Indecent exposure
   
132.03   Curfew for minors
§ 132.01 POSSESSION, PURCHASE AND/OR DELIVER OF BARBITURATES AND OTHER
PROHIBITED DRUGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DELIVER. Sale, offer for sale, barter, exchange, administering,
dispensing, giving away, distributing, or supplying in any other manner. The
term DELIVER as herein defined shall include the attempt to do acts as well as
the actual completed commission thereof.
      MANUFACTURER. Persons other than pharmacists who prepare drugs in dosage
form by mixing, compounding, encapsulating, entableting, or other process.
      PATIENT. As the case may be, the individual for whom a prohibited drug is
prescribed or to whom a prohibited drug is administered, or the owner or the
agent of the owner of any animal for which a prohibited drug is prescribed or
to which a prohibited drug is administered.
      PERSON. Includes individual, corporation, partnership and association.
      PHARMACIST. A person duly licensed and registered with the Minnesota
State Board of Pharmacy as a registered pharmacist.
      PRACTITIONER. A person licensed by law to prescribe and administer any of
the prohibited drugs as defined above.
      PRESCRIPTION. A written or oral order by a practitioner to a pharmacist
for a prohibited drug or stimulant for a particular patient, which specifies
the date of its issue, the name and address of the practitioner, the name and
address of the patient (and, if the barbiturate or stimulant is prescribed for
an animal, the species of the animal), the name and quantity of the prohibited
drug prescribed, the directions for use of the drug, and in the case of a
written order the signature of the practitioner. An oral order by a
practitioner for a prohibited drug must be promptly reduced to writing by the
pharmacist.
      PROHIBITED DRUG. As used herein, the term prohibited drug means:
         (a)   Barbital and any derivative thereof including but not limited to
the following: diethylbarbituric acid; any alkyl, aryl, metallic or halogenated
derivative of barbituric acid; varonal (barbitone); proponal, ipral, dial;
neonal (soneryl); sandoptal; amytal; phenobarbital (luminal); Phandorn; noctal;
allonal (which contains allylisoprophyl-barbituric acid in combination with
amidopyrine) medianl; or any preparation, mixture or other substance
containing, any of the foregoing substances;
         (b)   Amphetamine and any derivatives thereof including but not
limited to substances as follows: desoxyephedrine (methamphetamine),
mephentermine, pipradol, phenmetrazine, methylphenidate or any salt mixture or
optical isomer thereof which salt mixture or optical isomer has a stimulating
effect on the central nervous system;
         (c)   Chloral hydrate (chloral); chlordiazepoxide and its salts
(librium); diazepam (valium); etchlorvynol (placidyl); ethinamate (valmid);
glutethimide (doriden); meprobamate (miltown, equanil, meprospan, meprotabs);
methyprylon (noludar); paraldehyde, codeine or any of its salts; or
         (d)   MARIJUANA means all parts of the plant Cannabis Sativa L.,
including all agronomical varieties, whether growing or not; the seeds thereof;
the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound,
manufacture, salt derivative, mixture, or preparation of the plant, its seeds
or resin, but shall not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber from
stalks, oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound,
manufacture, salt derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks,
except the resin extracted therefrom, fiber, oil, or cake, or the sterilized
seed of the plant which is incapable of germination.
      SMALL AMOUNT. As applied to marijuana means 1.5 ounces or less. This
provision shall not apply to the resinous form of marijuana.
      WHOLESALER. Persons engaged in the business of distributing prohibited
drugs to persons included in any of the classes named in division (C) hereof.
      WAREHOUSEMAN. Persons who store prohibited drugs for others and who have
no control over the disposition of prohibited drugs or stimulants except for
the purpose of storage.
   (B)   Unlawful possession, deliver or purchase. It is unlawful for any
person to grow, have in possession, purchase, or to deliver as herein defined
any prohibited drug as defined in division (A) hereof, including a small amount
of marijuana, except on a lawful prescription by a practitioner.
   (C)   Excepted lawful businesses and professions.
      (1)   Division (B) of this section shall not apply to the following in
the ordinary course of their trade, their business, or profession provided,
however, this exception shall not be a defense to the doing of the acts
prohibited in divisions (B) and (D) hereof:
         (a)   Practitioners;
         (b)   Pharmacists;
         (c)   Manufacturers;
         (d)   Pharmacists as manufacturers;
         (e)   Wholesalers; and
         (f)   Warehousemen.
      (2)   Persons engaged in transporting prohibited drugs as agent or
employee of a practitioner, pharmacist, manufacturer, warehouseman, wholesaler,
or common carrier.
      (3)   Public officers or public employees in the performance of official
duties requiring possession or control of prohibited drugs, or persons aiding
the officers or employees in the performance of the duties.
      (4)   Any patient as herein defined with respect to procuring, possession
and use of a prohibited drug in accordance with the terms of a prescription and
prescribed treatment.
      (5)   Persons who procure, possess or use drugs for the purpose of lawful
research, teaching or testing, and not for sale.
      (6)   Lawfully licensed and registered hospitals or bonafide institutions
wherein sick or injured persons are cared for and treated or bona fide
hospitals for the treatment of animals.
   (D)   Unlawful procuring, purchase, delivery or possession. No person shall
possess or have in his or her control or possession or purchase, or deliver a
prohibited drug, or attempt to do so, by fraud, deceit, misrepresentation or
subterfuge, or by the forgery or alteration of a prescription, or by the
concealment of a material fact, or by the use of a false name or the giving of
a false address, or by making a false statement in any prescription, order,
report, or record relative to a prohibited drug, or by falsely assuming the
title of, or falsely representing any person to be, a manufacturer, wholesaler,
warehouseman, pharmacist, practitioner, or other person described in division
(A) hereof, or by making, issuing or uttering any false or forged prescription.
   (E)   Confiscation and disposition. Any prohibited drugs found in the
possession of any person convicted of a violation of this section shall be
confiscated and shall be forfeited to the Chief of Police, who shall make
proper and timely disposition thereof by destroying them.
   (F)   Use of original containers and labels required. All patients having
possession of any prohibited drugs, by lawful prescription of practitioner
while prohibited drugs are lawfully in the person’s possession, shall keep the
prohibited drugs in the original container in which they were delivered until
used in accordance with the prescription, and shall not remove the pharmacist’s
original label identifying the prescription from the original container.
   (G)   Penalty. Any person violating the provisions of this ordinance shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 402.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   (A)   Every person who shall expose the private parts of his or her person
in any public place or in any place where other persons are present other then
the spouse of the person so exposing, or shall procure or in any manner
compensate another to so expose himself or herself, and every person who shall
engage in open or gross lewdness or lascivious behavior, or other public
indecency, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, private parts shall mean the male and
female reproductive organs or any part thereof and the hirsute area surrounding
same.
(Prior Code, § 402.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)   To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT or REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work.
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor.
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew.
      (6)   To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion.
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city’s designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence.
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or other
adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one of the
exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (I)   Duty of law enforcement officer. A law enforcement officer must look
into whether a minor has an affirmative defense before making an arrest.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: RESIDENCY OF PREDATORY OFFENDERS
Section
   
133.01   Title
   
133.02   Findings and purpose
   
133.03   Definitions
   
133.04   Prohibited locations of residences for designated offenders
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and referenced as the Predatory Offender
Residency Restriction Ordinance.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 133.02 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Offenders who have committed certain statutorily designated sexual
offenses and other identified offenses are required by state statutes to
register their addresses, secondary addresses, work locations and vehicles with
the state Department of Corrections.
   (B)   Offenders who have committed the designated sexual and predatory
offenses and are confined in state correctional facilities or treatment
facilities are subject to provisions set forth in M.S. § 244.052. An offender
is subject to review by an End of Confinement Review Committee (ECRC)
established by the state Commissioner of Corrections. The ECRC is required to
assess, review, and assign a risk level before the offender is released from
confinement, pursuant to M.S. § 244.052. The offender is entitled to notice of
the ECRC meeting and has the right to be present and be heard at the meeting.
   (C)   Offenders who, upon release from confinement, are assigned a risk
level III are those who score a high risk to re-offend and represent the
greatest risk to other residents of the city.
   (D)   Research indicates the measurement of individual characteristics are
the best predictors of likelihood of re-offending and the end of confinement
review process sets forth the procedures identified in M.S. § 244.052 resulting
in the assigned risk level.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 133.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHILD or CHILDREN. Any person or persons under 18 years of age.
   DESIGNATED OFFENDER. Any person:
      (1)   Who has been convicted of an offense identified under M.S. §
243.166, Subd. 1b requiring the offender to register with the Department of
Corrections;
      (2)   Who has been confined in a correctional or treatment facility under
the direction or control of the Department of Correction or the state
Department of Human Services and has been assigned a risk level of III
(referred to as a Level III predatory offender);
      (3)   DESIGNATED OFFENDER also includes any person who has been convicted
of a similar law of another state, as identified under M.S. § 243.166, Subd.
1b.
   DESIGNATED SCHOOL BUS STOP. Any intersection or address identified by a
school as a location where students are scheduled to be picked up or dropped
off as part of a regular route or schedule, and identified as such by a school
at the time the designated offender is released from a facility.
   LEVEL III PREDATORY OFFENDER. Any person who has committed an offense
identified in M.S. § 243.166, or similar offense of another state; has been
confined in a state correctional or treatment facility, or similar facility of
another state; and has been assigned a risk level III at the offender’s end of
confinement review meeting.
   LICENSED CHILD CARE FACILITY. Any facility, center, home or institution
licensed by the state, pursuant to M.S. § 245A and shall specifically include
an individual home, center, or facility where children are cared for pursuant
to the requirements of a license issued by the state Department of Human
Services.
   PREDATORY OFFENDER. Offenders convicted of sexual offense designated in M.S.
§ 243.166, Subd. 1b, or a same or similar provision of another state.
   PUBLIC PARK. An area owned and controlled by a local government for
recreational use and/or preservation of natural space.
   RESIDENCE. The place where the person abides, lodges, or resides for 14
days.
   SCHOOL. Any public school or school building defined per M.S. § 120A.05 or
any non-public school or educational institution, per M.S. § 123B.41, providing
instruction to children, and shall include any structure, land, or facility
owned, leased or used for operation of the school or school activities.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 133.04 PROHIBITED LOCATIONS OF RESIDENCES FOR DESIGNATED OFFENDERS.
   (A)   Prohibited residence of level III predatory offenders. It is unlawful
for any predatory offender to establish a residence within 2,000 feet of any
school, licensed childcare facility, public park, or designated school bus
stop.
   (B)   For the purposes of determining the minimum distance of separation
between the residence and the school, licensed child care facility, public
park, or designated school bus stop, the distance shall be measured following a
straight line from the outer property line of the permanent residence to the
nearest outer property line of a school, licensed child care facility, public
park, or designated school bus stop. The city shall maintain a list of the
identified schools, licensed childcare facilities, public parks, and designated
school bus stops and shall update the list and corresponding map at least
yearly.
   (C)   Exceptions. A level III predatory offender residing within a
prohibited area does not commit a violation of this section if any of the
following apply:
      (1)   The offender established the residence and reported and registered
the residence pursuant to M.S. § 243.166-167 or successor statute, prior to
November 1, 2020;
      (2)   The school, licensed child care facility, public park, or
designated school bus stop within 2,000 feet of the level III predatory
offender residence was established, opened, created or licensed after the level
III predatory offender reported and registered the residence pursuant to M.S. §
243.166-167;
      (3)   The residence is also the primary residence of the level III
predatory offender’s parent(s), grandparent(s), sibling(s), spouse, or child
(ren).
   (D)   Nothing in this section shall require any person or level III
predatory offender to sell or otherwise dispose of any real property acquired
or owned prior to the conviction restricting residency under this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates this chapter may be punished by a fine up to $1,000
and/or confinement for a term of up to 90 days, or both. Each day a person
maintains a residence in violation of this chapter may constitute a separate
violation.
(Ord. 2020-05, passed 10-19-2020)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   ADOPTION OF STANDARDS AND CODES
         
151.   FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS
         
152.   CITY SHORELINE MANAGEMENT
         
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
154.   ZONING
         
155.   MINERAL EXTRACTION
CHAPTER 150: ADOPTION OF STANDARDS AND CODES
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Application, administration and enforcement
   
150.02   Authority to issue permits and collect fees
   
150.03   Building Code adopted
   
150.04   Building permit fees
Fire Code
   
150.15   Fire codes adopted
   
150.16   Definitions
   
150.17   Enforcement
 
   
150.99   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The application, administration, and enforcement of the Building Code
shall be in accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter 1300. The code shall be
enforced within the extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 16B.62, Subd.
1, as it may be amended from time to time, when so established by this chapter.
   (B)   This Building Code shall be enforced by the Minnesota certified
building official designated by this municipality to administer the code, M.S.
§ 16B.65, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 8-7-2003) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE PERMITS AND COLLECT FEES.
   (A)   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized in M.S. § 16B.62, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this Building Code
in accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the municipality in §
36.01. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued
for work governed by this code in accordance with M.S. § 16B.70, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 8-7-2003)
§ 150.03 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   The Minnesota State Building Code, established pursuant to M.S. §§ 16B.59 to
16B.75, as they may be amended from time to time is hereby adopted as the
building code for this municipality. The code is hereby incorporated in this
chapter as if fully set out herein.
   (A)   The Minnesota State Building Code includes the following chapters of
Minnesota Rules:
      (1)   1300, Administration of the Minnesota State Building Code;
      (2)   1301, Building Official Certification;
      (3)   1302, State Building Code Construction Approvals;
      (4)   1303, Minnesota Provisions;
      (5)   1305, Adoption of the 2006 International Building Code;
      (6)   1306, Special Fire Protection Systems;
      (7)   1307, Elevators and Related Devices;
      (8)   1309, Adoption of the 2006 International Residential Code;
      (9)   1311, Adoption of the 2000 Guidelines for the Rehabilitation of
Existing Buildings;
      (10)   1315, Adoption of the 2005 National Electrical Code;
      (11)   1325, Solar Energy Systems;
      (12)   1330, Fallout Shelters;
      (13)   1335, Floodproofing Regulations;
      (14)   1341, Minnesota Accessibility Code;
      (15)   1346, Adoption of the Minnesota State Mechanical Code;
      (16)   1350, Manufactured Homes;
      (17)   1360, Prefabricated Structures;
      (18)   1361, Industrialized/Modular Buildings;
      (19)   1370, Storm Shelters (Manufactured Home Parks);
      (20)   4715, Minnesota Plumbing Code; and
      (21)   7670, 7672, 7674, 7676 and 7678, Minnesota Energy Code.
   (B)   The City of Harris hereby adopts by reference Chapter 1335,
Floodproofing Regulations, parts 1335.0600 to 1335.1200.
   (C)   The City of Harris hereby adopts by reference Appendix Chapter K
(Grading) of the 2002 Supplement to the 2000 International Building Code.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 8-7-2003)
§ 150.04 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Generally. The City of Harris pursuant to M.S. § 16B.62, Subd. 1, as
it may be amended from time to time, shall collect from each applicant a
building permit fee. These fees are located in the fee schedule in §
36.01.
(Ord. 2003-02, passed 8-7-2003)
   (B)   Additional or supplemental permit fees. The fees for building
inspections are hereby adopted by the city and are located in the fee schedule
in §
36.01. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued
for work governed by this code in accordance with M.S. § 16B.70, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (C)   Building valuation. The building inspector shall utilize the Minnesota
Department of Administration Building Valuation Data distributed annually in
May of each year.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 8-7-2003)
FIRE CODE
§ 150.15 FIRE CODES ADOPTED.
   (A)   The 2007 Minnesota State Fire Code, which adopts the 2006
International Fire Code, including Appendix H, is hereby adopted by reference
as the Fire Code for the City of Harris, except such portions as are modified
or amended by this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever the 2006 International Fire Code or the 2006 International
Fire Code Standards or any part of this subchapter conflict with the Minnesota
State Building Code, or are less restrictive than the Minnesota State Fire
Code, the Minnesota State Building Code and the Minnesota State Fire Code,
whichever is applicable shall prevail.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed - -)
§ 150.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
whenever the following terms are used in the codes adopted pursuant to this
subchapter unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CORPORATION COUNSEL or MUNICIPAL COUNSEL or CITY COUNSEL. Shall be held to
mean the City Attorney.
   FIRE CHIEF. Shall be held to mean the Fire Chief of the City of Harris.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT. Shall be held to mean the Fire Department, City of Harris.
   JURISDICTION. When used in the 2007 Minnesota State Fire Code, it shall mean
the City of Harris.
   MUNICIPALITY. Shall be held to mean the City of Harris.
   THIS CODE. When used in the 2007 Minnesota State Fire Code or this
subchapter, it shall mean the code adopted pursuant to this subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed - -)
§ 150.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   The chief of the fire department is authorized to enforce the provisions of
the Minnesota State Fire Code and this subchapter. The chief of the fire
department may detail such members of the fire department as may be necessary
to administer and enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department provisions, see
Chapter 34
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of the Building Code is a misdemeanor under M.S. § 16B.69,
as it may be amended from time to time, and Minnesota Rules Chapter 1300, plus
in either case, the costs of prosecution. The penalty may be imposed in
addition to any other legal or equitable remedies available to the city.
(Ord. 2003-01, passed 8-7-2003)
   (B)   A person who violates the provisions of the Minnesota State Fire Code,
or §§
150.15 through
150.17 of this chapter, after being given written notice shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day’s violation after notice thereof shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Ord. 2008-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 151: FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Definitions
   
151.03   General provisions
   
151.04   Jurisdiction
   
151.05   Use regulation
   
151.06   Special permit uses
   
151.07   Subdivisions
   
151.08   Procedures for special use permits and subdivision plat approval
   
151.09   Variances to zoning regulations and modifications in subdivision
standards
   
151.10   Certificates of zoning compliance
   
151.11   Nonconforming uses
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Portions of the lands within the regulatory jurisdiction of the city
are subject to recurrent flooding by overflow of streams and other watercourses
causing hazard to life and property, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, unsanitary conditions, and, the interruption of transportation and
communications, all of which are detrimental to the health, safety, welfare and
property of the occupants of flood plain areas and the people.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety
and general welfare by minimizing the losses resulting from flooding,
preventing fraud and victimization for the sale of floodprone properties to
innocent purchasers and qualifying the city for flood insurance.
   (C)   The city intends to conduct or aid in the conduct, within a reasonable
time, of studies which will permit more detailed delineation and regulation of
flood plain areas.
(Prior Code, § 1101.01)
§ 151.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING CODE. The building code of the city.
   CHANNEL. A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct flowing water either continuously
or periodically.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of Natural Resources.
   ENCROACHMENT LINES. The lateral limits of lines drawn along each side and
parallel to a stream or another body of water, which delineates the floodways
and within which the flood carrying capacity of the stream or other body of
water is to be preserved. Their location, if along a stream, should be so that
the floodway between them will effectively carry and discharge a flood not less
than the regional flood.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
encroachment lines so that floodplains lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows. This is determined
by considering the effect of encroachment on the hydraulic efficiency of the
flood plain along both sides of a stream for a significant reach.
   FLOOD. A temporary rise in stream flow or stage which results in inundation
of the areas adjacent to the channel.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The average frequency, statistically determined, for which
it is expected that a specific flood stage of discharge may be equaled or
exceeded. By strict definition, these terms are designated EXCEEDENCE FREQUENCY
but in practical terms FREQUENCY is used. The frequency of a particular stage
or discharge is usually expressed as having a probability of occurring once
within a specified number of years. See also RECREANCE INTERVAL.
   FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the flood plain outside of the floodway.
   FLOOD PEAK. The highest value of stage or discharge attained during a flood
event, thus peak stage or peak discharge.
   FLOOD PLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse which have been or hereafter
may be covered by the regional flood.
   FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT. The full range of public policies and actions
necessary or incidental to the ensuring of wise use of the floodplains, and
shall include, but not be limited to, the collection and dissemination of flood
control information, actual acquisition of flood plain lands, construction of
flood control measures and enactment and administration of codes, ordinances
and statutes regulating flood plain land use.
   FLOOD PLAIN REGULATIONS. The full range of codes, ordinances and other
regulations relating to the use of land and construction within flood plain
limits. The term encompasses zoning regulations, subdivision regulations,
lakeshore management, sanitary and building codes.
   FLOOD PROFILE. A graph or a longitudinal plot of water surface elevations of
a flood event along the reach of a stream or river.
   FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties or structures subject to flooding primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages to properties, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and contents of buildings in flood hazard areas.
   FLOOD STAGE. As commonly used by the U.S. Weather Bureau and others, that
stage, at a particular river gauge, where overflow of the natural banks of the
stream results in significant flood damage in any portion of the reach for
which the gauge is a representational index.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
floodplains which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the regional
flood.
   REACH. The hydraulic engineering term used to describe the longitudinal
segments of a stream or river influenced by a natural or manmade obstruction.
In an urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive
bridge crossings would typically constitute a reach.
   RECREANCE INTERVAL. The average interval of time, based on statistical
analysis of actual or representative stream flow records, which can be expected
to elapse between floods equal to or greater than a specified stage or
discharge. The RECREANCE INTERVAL is generally expressed in years. See also
FLOOD FREQUENCY.
   REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods known to
have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on on average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval.
   RURAL AREAS. The portion of the city lying outside of the platted area
thereof.
   STANDARD PROJECT FLOOD. The flood that may be expected from the most severe
combination of meteorological and hydrological conditions that is considered
reasonably characteristic of the geographical area in which the drainage basin
is located, excluding extremely rare combinations. The floods are intended as
practicable expressions of the degree of protection that should be sought in
the design of flood control works, the failure of which might be disastrous.
   URBAN AREAS. The platted area within the corporate limits of the city.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs either continuously
or intermittently in a definite direction. The term applies to either natural
or artificially constructed channels.
   ZONING REGULATIONS. The city’s zoning regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1101.02)
§ 151.03 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Compliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be used, no land
shall be subdivided, and no structure shall be located, extended, converted or
structurally altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations including shoreland regulations, which apply to
uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter.
   (B)   Abrogation and greater restriction. It is not intended by this chapter
to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provision of this chapter shall prevail. This chapter shall take precedence
over and repeal other inconsistent ordinances to the extent that it imposes
additional restrictions upon land use.
(Prior Code, § 1101.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.04 JURISDICTION.
   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all lands within the
regulatory jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1101.04)
§ 151.05 USE REGULATION.
   Open space uses specified below shall be permitted within the jurisdiction
of this chapter to the extent they are not prohibited by any other regulations
and provided that they do not require structures, fill or storage of materials
or equipment:
   (A)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, grazing, horticulture,
forestry and wild crop harvesting;
   (B)   Industrial-commercial uses such as loading areas, parking areas,
airport landing strips and public utility transmission facilities;
   (C)   Private and public recreational uses such as golf courses, tennis
courts, driving ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching sites, swimming areas,
parks, wildlife and nature preserves, target ranges, game farms, fish
hatcheries, shooting preserves, hunting and fishing areas, hiking and horseback
riding trails; and
   (D)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas and play areas.
All other uses will require a special permit pursuant to §
151.06 of this chapter. All subdivision plats must be approved pursuant to §
151.07 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 1101.05)
§ 151.06 SPECIAL PERMIT USES.
   All proposed special permit uses within the jurisdiction of this chapter
shall be subject to a flood hazard evaluation in accordance with procedures
outlined in §
151.08 herein. Any proposed new construction or substantial improvement
(including prefabricated and mobile homes) within those areas that are subject
to flooding, as determined in accordance with procedures outlined in §
151.08 herein, shall comply with standards for flood land uses established by
Minnesota Regulations NR 05-93 and must:
   (A)   Be designed (or modified) and anchored to prevent floatation, collapse
or lateral movement of the structure;
   (B)   Use construction materials and utility equipment that are resistant to
flood damage;
   (C)   Use construction methods and practices that will minimize flood
damage;
   (D)   Provide flood protection to the flood protection elevation;
   (E)   Provide that new or replacement water supplies and/or sanitary sewage
systems be designed and used to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood
waters and require on-site waste disposal systems to be located so as to avoid
impairment of them or contamination from them during flooding. All private
sewage and waste disposal systems must comply to applicable standards,
criteria, rules and regulations in terms of size, construction and maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 1101.06)
§ 151.07 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   No floodprone land shall be subdivided which is found unsuitable for
its intended use by reasons of flooding, inadequate drainage, soil and rock
formations with severe limitations for development, susceptibility for mud
slides or earth slides, severe erosion potential, unfavorable topography,
inadequate water supply or sewage disposal capacities or any other feature
harmful to health, safety or welfare of the future residents of the community.
However, the city may approve the preliminary and finals plats if the
subdivider improves the land through fill or other techniques to provide
building sites free from flooding, design roads to provide safe access during
times of flood, and locate or design public facilities, such as gas, electrical
and water systems to provide protection from the regional flood and undertake
other measures to overcome development limitations and thereby render the land
unsuitable for its intended use. The city may approve preliminary and final
plats if the subdivider agrees to make suitable improvements and places a sum
in escrow sufficient to guarantee performance of this agreement. Land
subdivisions shall not be approved if the cost of providing governmental
services will impose an unreasonable economic burden on the city.
   (B)   All plats must meet the requirements of the M.S. Chapter 505, as it
may be amended from time to time. In addition, flood hazard areas shall be
clearly labeled on the plat.
   (C)   Restrictive deed covenants shall be filed with the final plat and
shall provide that the flood plain areas be left essentially in the state shown
on the plat, establish finished elevations of buildings, structures and private
streets and roads, and require that additions or modifications to these
facilities will not violate any provisions of the flood plain zoning
regulations or supplemental regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1101.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.08 PROCEDURES FOR SPECIAL USE PERMITS AND SUBDIVISION PLAT APPROVAL.
   (A)   Application for special use permits shall be made to the zoning
administrator on forms furnished by him or her and shall include the following
where applicable:
      (1)   Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location,
dimensions and elevations of the lot;
      (2)   Existing or proposed structure, fill or storage materials; and
      (3)   The location of the foregoing in relation to an adjacent water
body.
   (B)   The zoning administrator shall determine, based upon existing data
sources including topographic maps and soil maps, whether the proposed
development may be subject to flooding by the regulatory flood.
   (C)   If there is no reasonable possibility that the proposed development is
subject to flooding, the zoning administrator may grant the permit subject to
the standards and procedures of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (D)   If there is a reasonable possibility that the site is subject to
flooding, the zoning administrator shall transmit the application to the Board
of Adjustment for its determinations. The zoning administrator shall also
provide the Commissioner of Natural Resources with a copy of any application
for a special use permit, where a hearing is to be held to consider the
application, not less than ten days before the date of the hearing.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may require the applicant to furnish
additional materials including, but not limited to:
      (1)   A typical valley cross-section showing the channel of the stream,
elevation of the land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross-sectional
areas to be occupied by the proposed development, and high water information;
and
      (2)   A profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel of flow
line of the stream for at least 500 feet in either direction from the proposed
development.
   (F)   The Board of Adjustment may transmit the assembled information to a
designated engineer or other expert person or agency for technical assistance
to determine if the proposed use is in fact within the area subject to
inundation by the regulatory flood, whether the use is located in a floodway of
flood fringe area determined consistent with the standards of Minnesota
Regulations NR 87(d), the seriousness of flood damage to the use, the adequacy
of the plans for protection and other technical matters. Based on these
technical determinations, the Board of Adjustment shall determine the
compliance of the proposed use with the standards established by §
151.06 of this chapter, Minnesota Regulations NR 85-93, and all other codes and
regulations. The Board of Adjustment may deny, conditionally permit or permit
the proposed use. A copy of all decisions granting a special use permit shall
be forwarded to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of the
action.
   (G)   A subdivider shall submit copies of a preliminary sketch plan for any
plat to the city. The sketch plans shall include topographic information deemed
necessary by the city; zoning classification; acreage to be subdivided; lot
number and boundaries; location of rivers, streams, creeks, lakes and ponds;
highest known water elevation, if available; property lines; existing end
proposed service facilities such as roads, sewage disposal systems, water
supply, drainage facilities, lands to be reserved or dedicated or reserved for
open space use; and draft of proposed restrictive covenants, if any, to be
imposed. The city shall determine, based upon existing data sources, whether
the proposed development may be subject to flooding by the regulatory flood. If
there is reasonable possibility of flooding, the city shall make more precise
evaluations of flooding threats similar to those specified for special use
permits above and determine compliance of the proposed subdivision with
standards established by this chapter. The city shall approve, deny or
conditionally approve the preliminary plat within 30 days.
   (H)   The final plat must conform substantially to the preliminary plat as
approved. The final plat must show “as built” conditions except in instances
where a subdivider is permitted to post a bond in lieu of installing
improvements. The plat shall conform to the provisions of M.S. § 505.08, as it
may be amended from time to time and shall include all information shown on the
preliminary plat except contour lines, shall show flood data specified in §
151.07 of this chapter, and shall include plans for sanitary sewers, drainage
systems, water supply systems, flood protective works, roads, parks and other
facilities, and shall show parks, roads and other areas dedicated to the
public. No plat may be approved until a public hearing has been held, after due
notice has been given for the hearing. The city shall approve, deny or
conditionally approve the proposed final plat within 30 days of submission.
   (I)   When duly signed, witnessed, certified and acknowledged, as provided
in M.S. § 505.03, as it may be amended from time to time, the plat shall be
filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 1101.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.09 VARIANCES TO ZONING REGULATIONS AND MODIFICATIONS IN SUBDIVISION
STANDARDS.
   The Board of Adjustment may issue variances to the zoning regulations and
the city may permit modifications in the subdivision regulations when all of
the following conditions are met.
   (A)   Because of the unique topography or other conditions of land involved,
literal application of the provisions of this chapter would impose undue
hardship.
   (B)   Conditions are attached to variances or plat approval that assure
compliance with the requirements of this chapter insofar as practical.
   (C)   The purpose and intent of this chapter are observed.
   (D)   There is no increase in the flood hazard or flood damage potential.
The Commissioner of Natural Resources shall be provided with a copy of any
application for a variance, where a hearing is to be held to consider the
application, not less than ten days before the hearing. A copy of all decisions
granting a variance shall be forwarded to the Commissioner within ten days of
the action.
(Prior Code, § 1101.09)
§ 151.10 CERTIFICATES OF ZONING COMPLIANCE.
   Upon completion of any work or project pursuant to a special use permit or
variance granted pursuant to this chapter, and prior to the use or occupancy of
the land or structures permitted by the special use permit or variance, a
certificate of zoning compliance shall be issued therefor by the zoning
administrator stating that the use of the land or structure conforms to the
requirements of this chapter. Prior to the issuance of the certificate, the
applicant shall submit a certification by a registered professional engineer or
land surveyor, as appropriate, or other qualified person designated by the
governing body, that the finished fill and building floor elevations,
floodproofings and other flood protection measures have been completed in
compliance with the information given to the city in connection with the
application for the special permit or variance.
(Prior Code, § 1101.10)
§ 151.11 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premise which was lawful
before passage of this chapter, but does not comply with the provisions of this
chapter, may be continued but shall not be rebuilt, expanded, changed, enlarged
or altered to increase its nonconformity.
   (B)   If any nonconforming use of a building is discontinued for more than
12 consecutive months, any future use of the building premises shall conform to
the chapter. No nonconforming use shall be reconstructed after total or partial
destruction of 50% of its value at the time of its becoming a nonconforming use
unless the structure is changed permanently to a conforming use.
(Prior Code, § 1101.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 152: CITY SHORELINE MANAGEMENT
Section
   
152.01   Objective
   
152.02   General objectives
   
152.03   Designation of types of land use
   
152.04   Land use zoning districts
   
152.05   Sanitary provisions
   
152.06   Zoning provisions
   
152.07   Subdivision regulations
   
152.08   Dedications
   
152.09   Procedures for submitting a plat
   
152.10   Cluster development
   
152.11   Nonconforming and substandard uses
   
152.12   Livestock feedlots and intensive poultry farming
   
152.13   Variances
   
152.14   Enforcement
   
152.15   Date of effect
§ 152.01 OBJECTIVE.
   (A)   The uncontrolled use of shoreland in the city affects the public
health, safety and general welfare, not only contributing to pollution of
public waters, but also by impairing the local tax base. Therefore, it is in
the best interest of the city to provide for the wise development of shorelands
of public waters. The Legislature of Minnesota has delegated the responsibility
to the cities of the state to regulate subdivision, use and development of the
shorelands of public waters located in incorporated areas and thus preserve and
enhance the quality of surface waters, preserve the economic and natural
environmental values of shorelands, and provide for the wise utilization of
waters and related land resources.
   (B)   To achieve these objectives, and to provide additional appropriate
requirements for the use of shorelands over and above the provisions contained
in the existing city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 152.02 GENERAL OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Short title. This chapter shall be referred to as the City Shoreline
Management Chapter.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all
incorporated areas in the city.
   (C)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements, shall be
liberally construed in favor of the city, and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted to the city by Minnesota Statutes.
   (D)   Severability. The provisions of this chapter shall be severable, and
the finding of invalidity of any section, division or clause thereof shall not
render void or invalid any other section, division or clause thereof.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions.
      (1)   This chapter supercedes all provisions of any city zoning
regulations that relate to shorelands. However, the provisions of the existing
city zoning regulations and map are hereby incorporated by reference and shall,
to the extent of greater restrictions contained therein, be made as much a part
of this chapter as if the matter described were fully set out herein.
      (2)   This chapter shall not require the approval or be subject to
disapproval of the City Council. However, this section does not prohibit the
city from adopting or continuing in force regulations which are more
restrictive than those required by this chapter.
      (3)   It is not otherwise intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate or
impair any existing deed restrictions or ordinances other than zoning to the
extent specified in this section; however, where this chapter imposes greater
restrictions, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
   (F)   Compliance.
      (1)   The use of any shoreland of public waters, including the size and
shape of lots, the use, size, type and location of structures on lots, the
installation and maintenance of water supply and waste disposal facilities; the
filling, grading, lagooning, or dredging of any shoreland area; the cutting of
shoreland vegetation; and the subdivision of lots, shall be in full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
      (2)   Construction of buildings, private water supply and sewage systems
and the erection of signs shall require a permit unless otherwise expressly
excluded by the requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Administration. The city zoning administrator shall have the
responsibility of the administration of this chapter.
   (H)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUILDING LINE. The line measured across the width of the lot at the point
where the main structure is placed in accordance with the setback provisions.
      CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A pattern of subdivision development which places
housing units into compact groupings while providing a network of commonly
owned or dedicated open spaces.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A use of shoreland which is permitted within a zoning
district only when approved by the Council after a public hearing, if certain
conditions are met which eliminate or minimize the incomparability of the use
with other permitted uses of the district.
      DISTANCE. All distances shall be measured horizontally, unless otherwise
specified.
      NONCONFORMING USE. Any use of land established prior to the effective
date of the chapter which does not conform to the use restrictions or the
ordinances applicable to district within which the land is located.
      NORMAL HIGH WATER MARK. A mark delineating the highest water level which
has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape. The NORMAL HIGH WATER MARK is commonly that point where the natural
vegetation changes from predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial.
      PUBLIC WATER. A body of water capable of substantial beneficial public
use. For the purpose of this chapter, this shall be construed to mean any lake,
pond or flowage of 25 acres or more, or any river or stream with a total
drainage area of two square miles or more, which has the potential to support
any type of recreation pursuit or water supply purpose. A body of water created
by a private user where there was no previous shoreland as defined herein, for
a designated use authorized by the Commissioner of Conservation shall be exempt
from the provisions of this chapter.
         (a)   The official determination of the size and physical limits of
lakes, ponds or flowages shall be the areas listed in the Division of Waters,
Soils and Minerals, Bulletin No. 25, “An Inventory of Minnesota Lakes.”
         (b)   The official determination of the size and physical limits of
drainage areas of rivers and streams shall be the records of the Division of
Waters, Soils and Minerals.
      SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure and the
normal high watermark or between a structure and a road or highway.
      SHALL. Is mandatory, not permissive.
      SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public
waters:
         (a)   One thousand feet from the normal high water mark of a lake,
pond, or flowage; or
         (b)   Three hundred feet from a river or stream, or the landward
extent of a flood plain designated by regulations on a river or stream,
whichever is greater, except where the limits are designated on the official
zoning map of the city.
      STRUCTURE. Any building or appurtenances thereto, except aerial or
underground utility lines, such as sewer, electric, telephone, telegraph, or
gas lines, including towers, poles and other supporting appurtenances.
      SUBDIVISION. Improved or unimproved land or lands which are divided for
the purpose of ready sale or lease, into two or more lots or parcels,
contiguous in area, which are under common ownership or control.
      SUBSTANDARD USE. Any use of shorelands existing prior to the date of
enactment of any city ordinances which is permitted within the applicable
zoning district but which does not meet the minimum lot area and length of
water frontage, structure setbacks or other dimensional standards of the
regulations.
      UNINCORPORATED AREA. The area outside the city.
      VARIANCE. A modification of, or a deviation from the provisions of this
chapter where it is determined that, by reason of exceptional circumstances,
the strict enforcement of any provision of this chapter would cause unnecessary
hardship, would nullify the intent and purpose of this chapter, or would be
unreasonable, impractical or infeasible under the circumstances.
      WATER SUPPLY PURPOSE. Includes any uses of water for domestic, commercial
industrial, or agricultural purposes.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 152.03 DESIGNATION OF TYPES OF LAND USE.
   (A)   Generally. In order to guide the wise development and utilization of
shorelands of public waters for the preservation of water quality, natural
characteristics, economic values and the general health, safety and welfare,
all public waters in the unincorporated areas of the city have been given a
public waters classification; and uses of shorelands in these classes are
hereby designated by land use districts, based on the compatibility of the
designated type of land use with the public waters classification.
   (B)   Public waters classification system. The public waters of the city
have been classified by the Commissioner of Conservation as follows.
      (1)   Natural environment, lakes and streams.
         (a)   13-67 Mud
         (b)   13-63 Chain
      (2)   Recreational development lakes. None.
      (3)   General development lakes and streams. 13-68 Fish.
      (4)   Critical lakes and streams. These lakes and streams are, at
present, subject to the standards specified for natural environment lakes and
streams. As further studies are completed, more restrictive standards may be
specified for each to reflect their special problems.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 152.04 LAND USE ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The following land use zoning districts have been established in
accordance with their compatibility with the public waters classification. The
shoreline zone surrounding each lake or stream shall be within the district
corresponding to the public waters classification of the respective lake or
stream, unless otherwise designated, and shall be bounded by the boundaries
indicated on the official Chisago County shoreline map.
   (B)   The shorelands of Chisago County, Minnesota, are hereby divided into
the following districts, in this city.
      (1)   Natural Environment District.
      (2)   Recreational Development District.
      (3)   General Development District.
      (4)   Special Protection District.
   (C)   All shoreland districts are overlying districts and are subject to all
uses and restrictions provided for in the underlying district which are more
restrictive or govern uses other than those found herein.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 152.05 SANITARY PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Water supply.
      (1)   Any public or private supply of water for domestic purposes must
conform to Minnesota Department of Health standards for water quality.
      (2)   Public water supplies shall be used where available and where
feasible.
      (3)   Permits.
         (a)   No person, firm or corporation shall install, alter, repair, or
extend, or initiate the commencement of any work, without first obtaining a
permit therefor from the city zoning administrator.
         (b)   Applications for a permit shall be made in writing upon printed
forms obtainable from the city zoning administrator and shall be signed by the
applicant.
         (c)   Each application for permits shall have thereon the correct
legal description of the property upon which the proposed installation,
alteration, repair, or extension is to take place. Each application for a
permit shall be accompanied by a plan of the site, drawn to scale, showing: the
location of any proposed or existing buildings on the property and the relation
of same to the boundary lines of the property; complete plans of the proposed
water supply system, including the location, size and design of all parts of
the well to be installed, altered, repaired, or extended; and the present or
proposed location of the sewage disposal system, including the design and
dimensions of the components of the system. The application shall also contain
the name and address of the person, firm or corporation who is to perform the
work on the system, and shall provide further information as may be required by
the city zoning administrator.
         (d)   Private wells shall be so located and constructed that they will
not be contaminated by any existing or future sewage disposal systems. They
shall also be constructed to minimize the possible contamination from all
possible sources within the geological strata surrounding the well.
         (e)   Private wells shall be located in a manner to be free from
flooding and the top shall be so constructed and located as to be above all
possible sources of pollution. Wells already in existence in areas subject to
flooding shall be floodproofed.
   (B)   Waste disposal.
      (1)   The disposal of sewage, industrial or other wastes as defined in
M.S. Chapter 115, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be subject to
the standards, criteria, rules and regulations of the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency and applicable county ordinances.
      (2)   No rubbish or trash of any sort shall be thrown or discarded in any
manner into any public water or into any watercourse leading to a public water.
      (3)   No solid waste disposal site shall be located within the
jurisdiction of this chapter unless approved by the Pollution Control Agency.
   (C)   Sewage disposal.
      (1)   Any premises intended for human occupancy in whatever manner shall
be provided with adequate sewage disposal, installed, extended, repaired, and
maintained in accordance with the provisions of the Chisago County Sewage
Disposal Ordinance, as adopted by this city.
      (2)   Public or municipal collection and treatment facilities shall be
used where available and where feasible.
   (D)   Agricultural waste disposal. Any agricultural waste disposal operation
in shoreland areas must conform to the standards, criteria, rules and
regulations of the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 152.06 ZONING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lot sizes.
      (1)    Lots newly platted or created by metes and bounds. For lots newly
platted or created by metes and bounds descriptions.
         (a)   For Natural Environment Districts, the minimum lot size shall be
80,000 square feet and not less than 200 feet in width at the building line and
not less than 200 feet in width at the water line for lots abutting a public
water.
         (b)   For Recreational Development Districts, the minimum lot size
shall be 40,000 square feet and not less than 150 feet in width at the building
line, and not less than 150 feet in width at the water line for lots abutting a
public water.
         (c)   For General Development Districts, the minimum lot size shall be
20,000 square feet and not less than 100 feet in width at the building line,
and not less than 100 feet in width at the water line for lots abutting a
public water.
         (d)   In addition to the minimum requirements of this division, the
minimum lot size shall be increased so that the total area of all structures,
existing or proposed, on a lot will not equal more than 30% of the lot area.
      (2)   Substandard lots.
         (a)   Lots of record in the office of the Chisago County Register of
Deeds prior to the date of enactment of this chapter which do not meet the
requirements for minimum lot sizes set forth immediately above may be allowed
as building sites, provided the use is permitted in the zoning district, the
lot is in separate ownership from abutting lands, and all sanitary and
dimensional requirements of applicable city regulations are complied with
insofar as is practical.
         (b)   In no event shall the minimum size lot or the minimum width of
building line or water line be less than 60% of the requirements for newly
platted lots, except for approved cluster developments, as provided
hereinafter.
   (B)   Placement of structures on lots.
      (1)   Setbacks. All structures, except boathouses, piers and docks, shall
be setback the following horizontal distances.
         (a)   On natural environment lakes, at least 200 feet from the normal
high water mark.
         (b)   On recreational development lakes, at least 100 feet from the
normal high water mark.
         (c)   On general development lakes, at least 75 feet from the normal
high water mark.
         (d)   Outside of a floodway as defined in M.S. § 103F.111, as it may
be amended from time to time.
      (2)   High water elevation.
         (a)   For lakes, ponds or flowages. No structure, except boathouses,
piers and docks, shall be placed at an elevation so that the lowest floor,
including basement floors, is less than three feet above the highest known
water level. In those instances where sufficient data on known high water
levels are not available, the elevation of the line of permanent shoreland
vegetation shall be used as the estimated high water elevation. When fill is
utilized to achieve the required elevation, the fill shall be allowed to
stabilize, and construction shall not begin until the property has been
inspected and approved by the city zoning administrator.
         (b)   For rivers or streams. Placement of structures shall be in
conformance with any applicable local flood plan regulations or ordinances.
Where no ordinances exist, the elevation of structures shall be determined
after an evaluation of available flood information.
      (3)   Erosion and sedimentation control. No structure shall be placed in
any area which will require grading and/or filling which will result in
impairment of public waters by reason of erosion and sedimentation, violate
provisions of statewide standards and criteria for management of flood plain
areas of Minnesota, or result in impairment of fish or aquatic life.
      (4)   Location of structures in relation to side lot lines and roads.
         (a)   There shall be not less than ten feet between any structure and
side lot lines.
         (b)   No structure shall be placed closer than 50 feet from the right-
of-way line of any federal, state, or county trunk highway, or 40 feet from any
town road, public street, or other road not classified.
      (5)   Boathouses. Boathouses shall be permitted to be located up to the
normal high water mark subject to the issuance of a conditional use permit by
the city zoning administrator, provided they shall not be used for habitation
and they shall not contain sanitary facilities.
      (6)   Variances. Variances to the setback requirements may be granted
under the following circumstances by the City Planning Commission, in
accordance with the procedure set forth in the city zoning regulations,
provided the property is not within a floodway:
         (a)   In areas where development exists on both sides of a proposed
building site, water and road setbacks may be varied to conform to the existing
established setbacks;
         (b)   In areas of unusual topography or substantial elevation above
the water level, the water setback may be varied to allow a riparian owner
reasonable use and enjoyment of his or her property; or
         (c)   Where homes incorporate a method of sewage disposal other than
an on-site soil absorption system, water setbacks may be reduced by 1/3.
      (7)   Locations of signs and structural appurtences thereto. All
commercial advertising signs shall be of a size, shape and location so as not
be unduly prominent in their surroundings. The regulations of signs hereunder
are in addition to the provisions of M.S. Chapter 173, as it may be amended
from time to time, and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.
         (a)   Signs intended to be read from the water shall be set back to
the established structure setback from the normal high water mark, shall be
attached to a building, and shall not exceed 30 square feet in gross area.
         (b)   All signs shall require a permit to be erected, except the
following, when they do not exceed six square feet in gross area.
            1.   Signs advertizing a customary home occupation.
            2.   Temporary signs advertising the sale, rent or lease of
property.
            3.   Recreation directory signs.
         (c)   Prohibited signs are those which:
            1.   Interfere with the visibility of drivers or obstruct traffic
signs;
            2.   Are illuminated by a flashing light or by any light directed
toward a neighboring residence or toward the water, except emergency or warning
signs;
            3.   Are composed of any conspicuous animated part; and/or
            4.   Are mounted on a dock or float.
   (C)   Shoreland alterations.
      (1)   Removal of natural vegetation. The removal of natural vegetation
shall be restricted to prevent erosion into public waters, to consume nutrients
in the soil, and to preserve shoreland esthetics. Removal shall be restricted
within a strip paralleling the water line and extending inland a specified
distance from the normal high water mark. The specified distance is determined
by the lake class, and is as follows:
         (a)   Natural environment lakes and streams. 100 feet from the normal
high water mark.
         (b)   Recreational development lakes and streams. 50 feet from the
normal high water mark.
         (c)   General development lakes and streams. 35 feet from the normal
high water mark.
         (d)   To allow a view corridor to the water, 25% of the length of this
strip may be cleared to the depth of the strip. In the remaining 75% of this
strip, cutting shall leave sufficient cover to screen cars, dwellings, and
other structures, except boathouses, piers docks and marinas, from view from
the lake.
         (e)   This division shall not apply to permitted uses which normally
require the removal of the natural vegetation.
      (2)   Grading and filling.
         (a)   Grading and filling in shoreland areas or any alterations of the
natural topography where the slope of the land is toward a public water or a
watercourse leading to a public water must be approved by the city zoning
administrator, and a permit obtained prior to the commencement of any work
thereon.
         (b)   The permit may be granted, subject to the conditions that:
            1.   The smallest area of bare ground is exposed for as short a
time as feasible;
            2.   Temporary ground cover, such as mulch, is used and permanent
ground cover, such as sod, is planted; and
            3.   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment are employed; and
            4.   Fill is stabilized to accepted engineering standards.
      (3)   Channeling. Excavations on shorelands where the intended purpose is
connection to a public water shall require a permit from the city zoning
administrator before construction is begun. The permit may be obtainable only
after the Commissioner of Conservation has issued a permit for work in the beds
of public waters.
      (4)   Violation. Restore to original condition.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 152.07 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Land suitability.
      (1)   No land shall be subdivided which is held unsuitable for the
proposed use by the City Council by reason of flooding, inadequate drainage,
soil or rock formations with severe limitations for development, severe erosion
potential, unfavorable topography, inadequate water supply or sewage disposal
capabilities or other features likely to be harmful to the health, safety, or
welfare of the future residents of the proposed subdivision or of the
community.
      (2)   The City Council in applying the provisions of this section shall
in writing recite the particular facts upon which it bases its conclusions that
the land is not suitable for the proposed use and afford the subdivider an
opportunity to present evidence regarding the suitability at a public hearing.
      (3)   Thereafter the City Council may affirm, modify, or withdraw its
determination of unsuitability.
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   Generally. All subdivision layouts shall be developed in proper
relation to existing and proposed streets, topography, surface water,
vegetation cover, other natural features, and the most advantageous development
of adjoining areas.
      (2)   Lot size.
         (a)   Lots within a plat shall be of a size and shape to satisfy the
requirements of §
152.06(A)(1) and (2).
         (b)   The shape of individual lots may render portions unusuable for
installing private sewage disposal systems or providing adequate separating
distances between them and watercourses or water wells. Therefore, any part of
a lot less than 30 feet wide shall not be used in computing the minimum lot
area.
      (3)   Public streets.
         (a)   Public streets shall be designed and located to take into
account:
            1.   Existing and planned streets;
            2.   Topographic conditions including the bearing capacity and
erosion potential of the soil;
            3.   Public convenience and safety, including facilitating fire
protection, snow plowing, and pedestrian traffic;
            4.   Requirements of public facilities;
            5.   The proposed uses of land to be served;
            6.   Anticipated traffic volumes; and
            7.   Further resubdivision possibilities.
         (b)   Width. Public streets shall be of the right-of-way and surface
width specified by the city engineer and approved by the City Council.
         (c)   Construction standards. Where there are no local road standards,
the minimum standards of the Minnesota Department of Highways shall apply. The
subdivider shall grade the roadbeds in the roadway width to subgrade and shall
surface all roadways to the width prescribed by the regulations.
         (d)   Sale of lands abutting on private way. No person shall sell any
parcel of land in a subdivision located in shoreland areas if it abuts on a
road which has not been accepted as a public road unless the seller informs the
purchaser in writing of the fact that the road is not a public road and is not
required to be maintained by the town or county.
      (4)   Storm drainage.
         (a)   Storm drainage facilities, where required, shall be designed to
permit the unimpeded flow of natural watercourses; ensure the drainage of all
points along the line of streets; and provide positive drainage away from on-
site sewage disposal systems.
         (b)   In designing storm drainage facilities, special consideration
shall be given to protection against shoreland erosion and siltation of surface
waters and preventing excess run-off adjacent property.
      (5)   Water supply facilities. Where there is an existing public water
supply system on or near the subdivision, the local municipality furnishing the
service and the City Council shall determine the feasibility of service and the
requirements to be followed by the subdivider in connection to the system.
Where there is no existing public water supply, individual water supply systems
will be permitted in accordance with the minimum standards and regulations of
the Department of Health.
      (6)   Sanitary sewerage.
         (a)   In areas that have a sanitary sewage system on or near the
proposed subdivision, the local municipality furnishing this service and the
City Council shall determine the feasibility of service and the procedures to
be followed by the subdivider in joining the system.
         (b)   In areas that are not to be served by sewage systems, on-site
sewer disposal systems utilizing septic tank and soil absorption fields will be
permitted only where soil borings and percolation tests indicate the systems
will function adequately and safely. Disposal systems shall be constructed to
meet the requirements of the city sewage disposal regulations, and any state
and local requirements. The subdivider shall carry out sufficient soil borings
and percolation tests to adequately portray the character of the soil, ground
water levels, and depth of bedrock. Each lot shall have at least 50% of its
area free of all of the limiting conditions set forth in §
53.060 et seq. of the city sewage disposal regulations.
         (c)   The City Council may prohibit the installation of sewage
disposal facilities utilizing septic tanks and soil absorption fields where the
systems would impair water quality, and the City Council may require
alternative methods of waste treatment and disposal including, but not limited
to, biological and/or tertiary treatment plants, or incinerator or chemical
toilets.
         (d)   Plans for private sewage disposal systems not utilizing septic
tank and soil absorption fields, as specified in division (B)(6)(c) above,
shall be approved in writing by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency or
Minnesota Department of Health. The subdivider shall clearly indicate on the
face of the plat and in any deed of conveyance that septic tank and soil
absorption fields are not to be used.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.08 DEDICATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council may require that suitable sites in the subdivision be
dedicated or reserved for future public use, such as schools, parks,
playgrounds, public access and open spaces as needed by the subdivision.
   (B)   Any part of a street or other public way which is indicated on a
comprehensive plan or plan component shall conform to the arrangement, width
and location indicated, and shall be offered for dedication to the county or
town.
   (C)   The City Council may require that easements for drainage ways of width
sufficient to accommodate anticipated storm water runoff be provided.
   (D)   The City Council may require that easements for public utilities be
provided.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 152.09 PROCEDURES FOR SUBMITTING A PLAT.
   (A)   All plats, replats, or any modifications thereof shall be submitted
and processed in the manner set forth in M.S. Chapter 505, as it may be amended
from time to time, and the applicable sections of the city subdivision chapter.
   (B)   Any proposed plat in shoreland areas which is inconsistent with the
provisions of this chapter shall be approved by the Commissioner of
Conservation.
   (C)   The subdivider shall install survey monuments in accordance with the
requirements of M.S. § 505.02, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.10 CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT.
   Smaller lots may be allowed for planned cluster developments provided:
   (A)   Preliminary plans are first approved by the Commissioner of
Conservation;
   (B)   Central sewage facilities are installed which meet the standards,
criteria, rules and regulations of the Minnesota Department of Health;
   (C)   Open spaces are preserved;
   (D)   There is not more than one centralized boat launching facility for
each cluster; and
    (E)   Any attached conditions are met, such as limits on overall density,
minimum size of the cluster development, restriction to residential uses, or
minimum length of water frontage.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.11 NONCONFORMING AND SUBSTANDARD USES.
   (A)   Nonconforming uses.
      (1)   Any uses in existence prior to the date of enactment of this
chapter which do not conform to the use restrictions of the established zoning
district are nonconforming uses. All sanitary facilities inconsistent with the
requirements of the city sewage chapter shall be brought into conformity
according to the provisions of that chapter.
      (2)   All other nonconforming uses shall be subject to the following
conditions.
         (a)   No use shall be expanded or enlarged except in conformity with
the provisions of this or other applicable regulations.
         (b)   No structural alteration, addition, or repair to any
nonconforming structure over the life of the structure shall exceed 50% of its
assessed value at the time of its becoming a nonconforming use unless
permanently changed to a conforming use.
         (c)   If the use is discontinued for 12 consecutive months, any future
use of the building or premises shall conform to this chapter. The county
assessor shall notify the city zoning administrator in writing of instances of
nonconforming uses which have been discontinued for a period of 12 consecutive
months.
   (B)   Substandard uses. Any uses of shorelands in existence prior to the
date of enactment of this chapter which are permitted within the applicable
zoning district, but do not meet the minimum lot area setback, or other
dimensional requirements of this chapter are substandard uses. Substandard
uses, including substandard sanitary facilities, shall be allowed to continue.
However, any structural alteration or addition to a substandard use which will
increase the substandard dimensions shall not be allowed.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.12 LIVESTOCK FEEDLOTS AND INTENSIVE POULTRY FARMING.
   Livestock feedlots and intensive poultry farming shall be prohibited within
660 feet of the high water mark, or in those areas where surface run-off could
carry waste materials from same into the body of water adjacent thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.13 VARIANCES.
   In any case where, upon the application of any responsible and interested
parties, it appears that by reason of exceptional circumstances, the strict
enforcement of any provision of this chapter would cause unnecessary hardship,
or that strict conformity would be unreasonable, impractical, or infeasible
under the circumstances, the City Planning Commission may permit a variance
therefrom upon the conditions as it may prescribe for management of shorelands
consistent with the general purposes of this chapter and the intent of this and
all other applicable state and local regulations and laws, provided that:
   (A)   The condition causing the hardship is unique to that property;
   (B)   The variance is proved necessary in order to secure for the applicant
a right or rights that are enjoyed by other owners in the same area or
district;
   (C)   The granting of the variance will not be contrary to the public
interest or damaging to the rights of other persons or property in the area;
   (D)   The granting of the variance will not be contrary to management
policies of the area or district; and
   (E)   No variance shall be granted simply because there are no objections or
because those who do not object out number those who do; nor for any other
reason than a proven hardship.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 152.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the city zoning
administrator, who is hereby designated the enforcing officer.
   (B)   In the event of a violation or a threatened violation of this chapter,
the City Council or any member thereof, in addition to other remedies, may
institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent, restrain, correct or
abate the violations, or threatened violations, and it shall be the duty of the
duty of the City Council to institute an action.
   (C)   Any taxpayer or taxpayers of the city may institute mandamus
proceedings in the court to compel specific performance by the proper official
or officials of any duty required by this chapter.
   (D)   Except as provided otherwise, any person, firm or corporation who
shall violate any of the provisions hereof or who shall fail to comply with any
of the provisions hereof or who shall make any false statement in any document
required to be submitted under the provisions hereof, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
§ 152.15 DATE OF EFFECT.
   This chapter shall be in full force and effect from and after its passage
and approval, as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 1001.01)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Purposes
   
153.003   Statutory authorization
   
153.004   Jurisdiction
   
153.005   Enactment
   
153.006   Reservation and repeals
   
153.007   Amendments
   
153.008   Interpretation, conflict and separability
   
153.009   Saving provision
   
153.010   Variances to the regulations
   
153.011   Enforcement
   
153.012   Fees
Definitions
   
153.025   Usage
   
153.026   Words and terms defined
Subdivision Application Procedure and Approval Process
   
153.040   General procedures for subdivisions
   
153.041   Pre-application procedure
   
153.042   Metes and bounds survey
   
153.043   Sketch plat
   
153.044   Environmental review
   
153.045   Preliminary plat procedure
   
153.046   Amendments to preliminary plat
   
153.047   Final plat procedure
   
153.048   Signing and recording of subdivision plat
   
153.049   Vested rights
   
153.050   Appeals to City Council
   
153.051   Vacation of plats, rights-of-way and public easements
   
153.052   Resubdivisions of land
   
153.053   Lot reconfigurations
Assurance for Completion and Maintenance of Improvements
   
153.065   Improvements and developer’s agreement
   
153.066   Inspection of improvements
   
153.067   Acceptance of land dedications and public improvements
   
153.068   Deferral or waiver of required improvements
Requirements for Improvements, Reservations and Design
   
153.080   General design philosophy
   
153.081   Blocks and lots
   
153.082   Monuments
   
153.083   Highways, streets and alleys
   
153.084   Grading, drainage and stormwater facilities
   
153.085   Sanitary sewer
   
153.086   Water supply
   
153.087   Utilities
   
153.088   Public sites, parks and open space
   
153.089   Trails and sidewalks
   
153.090   Street lights and signs
   
153.091   Street trees
   
153.092   Solar access
   
153.093   Non-residential subdivisions
   
153.094   Wetland delineations, wetland buffers, wetland structure setbacks
Submittal Requirements
   
153.105   Sketch plat
   
153.106   Preliminary plat
   
153.107   Final plat
   
153.108   Construction plans
   
153.109   Title work
   
153.110   Recording documents
   
153.111   Mapping documents
   
153.112   Metes and bounds survey
 
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   These regulations shall officially be known, cited, and referred to as the
subdivision regulations of Harris, Minnesota (hereinafter “regulations”).
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.002 PURPOSES.
   These regulations are adopted for the following purposes.
   (A)   To protect and provide for the public health, safety and general
welfare of the municipality.
   (B)   To guide the future growth and development of the municipality in
accordance with the comprehensive plan.
   (C)   To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land, and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land.
   (D)   To ensure that public facilities and services are available concurrent
with development and will have a sufficient capacity to serve the proposed
subdivision. In addition, the community will be required to bear no more than
its fair share of the cost of providing facilities and services through
requiring the developer to pay fees, furnish land, or establish mitigation
measures to ensure that the development provides its fair share of capital
facilities needs generated by the development.
   (E)   To encourage the orderly development of the community through
appropriate growth management techniques assuring the timing and sequencing of
development, promotion of infill development in existing neighborhoods and
nonresidential areas with adequate public facilities, and to protect
environmentally critical areas and areas premature for urban development.
   (F)   To provide the most beneficial relationship between the uses of land
and buildings and the circulation of traffic throughout the municipality,
having particular regard to the avoidance of congestion in the streets and
highways and the pedestrian traffic movements appropriate to the various uses
of land and buildings. To provide for the proper location and width of streets
and building lines.
   (G)   To prevent the pollution of air and water resources including ground
water; to assure the adequacy of drainage facilities; and to encourage the wise
use and management of natural resources throughout the municipality in order to
preserve the integrity, stability, and beauty of the community and the value of
the land.
   (H)   To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and
layout of the land.
   (I)   To ensure that land is subdivided only when subdivision is necessary
to provide for uses of land for which market demand exists and which are in the
public interest.
   (J)   To remedy the problems associated with inappropriately subdivided
lands, including premature subdivision, excess subdivision, partial or
incomplete subdivision, scattered and low-grade subdivision.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.003 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority contained in M.S. §§
462.351 to 462.365, and Chapter 505, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.004 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   These regulations apply to all subdivision of land, as defined in §
153.026 located within the corporate limits of the municipality or outside the
corporate limits as provided by law.
   (B)   Exceptions. These regulations shall not apply to the following (other
city or county ordinances and state laws may apply):
      (1)   Subdivisions creating cemetery lots;
      (2)   Transfers of small parcels in case of encroachments, road right-of-
way, or utility easements; or
      (3)   Subdivisions resulting from court orders.
   (C)   No creation or conveyance of land shall be permitted by metes and
bounds description or by reference to an unapproved registered land survey made
after April 21, 1961, or to any unapproved plat, except if the land described:
      (1)   Was a separate parcel of record April 1, 1945, or the date of
adoption of subdivision regulations under Laws 1945, Chapter 287, which ever is
later;
      (2)   Was the subject of a written agreement to convey entered into prior
to that time;
      (3)   Was a separate parcel of not less than 2-1/2 acres in area and 150
in width on January 1, 1966;
      (4)   Was a separate parcel of not less than five acres in area and 300
feet in width on July 1, 1980;
      (5)   Is a single parcel of residential or agricultural land of not less
than 20 acres and having a width of not less than 500 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into two or more lots or parcels,
any one of which is not less than 20 acres and having a width of not less than
500 feet.
   (D)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of the land located in
a proposed subdivision shall transfer, lease, or sell any part of the parcel
before a final plat or a certified land survey of the subdivision has been
approved by the city in accordance with the provisions of these regulations
filed with the Chisago County recorder.
   (E)   No land described in this section shall be subdivided or sold, leased,
transferred or developed until each of the following conditions has occurred in
accordance with these regulations:
      (1)   The subdivider or agent has submitted the required plats and
supporting documentation to the zoning administrator;
      (2)   The subdivider or agent has obtained approval of a metes and bounds
survey or a sketch plat, a preliminary plat, a final plat, developers agreement
and other supporting documents from the City Council; and
      (3)   The subdivider or agent files the approved plats with the Chisago
County recorder.
   (F)   No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any
parcel or plat of land created by subdivision after the effective date of, and
not in substantial conformity with, the provisions of these subdivision
regulations. Further, no excavation of land or construction of any public or
private improvements shall take place or be commenced except in conformity with
these regulations.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.005 ENACTMENT.
   In order that land may be subdivided in accordance with these purposes and
policies, these subdivision regulations are hereby adopted and made effective
as of (the effective date of these regulations). All applications for
subdivision approval, including final plats, pending on the effective date of
these regulations shall be reviewed under these regulations. These regulations
will not apply if preliminary plat approval was obtained prior to the effective
date of these regulations and the subdivider has constructed subdivision
improvements prior to submission of the final plat as required by the
municipality.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.006 RESERVATION AND REPEALS.
   Upon the adoption of these regulations according to law, the subdivision
regulations of the City of Harris adopted __________, as amended, are hereby
repealed, except as to those sections expressly retained in these regulations.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.007 AMENDMENTS.
   For the purpose of protecting the public health, safety, and general
welfare, the Planning Commission may from time to time propose amendments to
these regulations which shall then be approved or disapproved by the City
Council at a public meeting following public notice.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.008 INTERPRETATION, CONFLICT AND SEPARABILITY.
   (A)   Interpretation. In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum requirements
for the promotion of the public health, safety, and general welfare. These
regulations shall be construed broadly to promote the purposes for which they
are adopted.
   (B)   Public provisions. These regulations are not intended to interfere
with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, rule or regulation, statute, or
other provision of law except as provided in these regulations. Where any
provision of these regulations imposes restrictions different from those
imposed by any other provision of these regulations or any other ordinance,
rule or regulation, or other provision of law, the provision which is more
restrictive or imposes higher standards shall control.
   (C)   Private provisions. These regulations are not intended to abrogate any
easement, covenant or any other private agreement or restriction, provided that
where the provisions of these regulations are more restrictive than the
easement, covenant, or other private agreement or restriction, the requirements
of these regulations shall govern. Where the provisions of the easement,
covenant, or private agreement impose duties and obligations more restrictive
than these regulations, and the private provisions are not inconsistent with
these regulations, then the private provisions shall be operative and
supplemental to these regulations and the determinations made under the
regulations.
   (D)   Separability. If any part or provision of these regulations or the
application of these regulations to any person or circumstances is adjudged
invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, the judgment shall be confined
in its operation to the part, provision, or application directly involved in
the controversy in which the judgment shall be rendered. It shall not affect or
impair the validity of the remainder of these regulations or the application of
them to other persons or circumstances. The governing body hereby declares that
it would have enacted the remainder of these regulations even without any part,
provision, or application which is judged to be invalid.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.009 SAVING PROVISION.
   These regulations shall not be construed as abating any action now pending
under, or by virtue of, prior existing subdivision regulations, or as
discontinuing, abating, modifying, or altering any penalty accruing or about to
accrue, or as affecting the liability of any person, firm, or corporation, or
as waiving any right of the municipality under any section or provision
existing at the time of adoption of these regulations, or as vacating or
annulling any rights obtained by any person, firm, or corporation by lawful
action of the municipality except as shall be expressly provided for in these
regulations.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.010 VARIANCES TO THE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   General. Where the City Council finds that extraordinary hardships or
practical difficulties may result from strict compliance with these
regulations, or the community may be served to a greater extent by an
alternative proposal, it may approve variances to these subdivision regulations
provided that substantial justice is done and the public interest is secured. A
variance shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of
these regulations. The City Council shall not approve variances unless it makes
findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case that:
      (1)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
safety, health, or welfare or injurious to other property;
      (2)   The conditions upon which the request is based are unique to the
property for which the relief is sought and are not applicable generally to
other property;
      (3)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations is carried out; and
      (4)   The relief sought will not in any manner vary the provisions of the
zoning regulations, official map, building codes or comprehensive plan except
that those documents may be amended in the manner prescribed by law.
   (B)   Conditions. In approving variances, the City Council may require
additional conditions that will, in its judgment, secure substantially the
purposes described in §
153.002.
   (C)   Procedure. An application for a variance to the subdivision
regulations shall be submitted by the subdivider at the time when the
preliminary plat is filed for the consideration by the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission shall consider the application and give its written
recommendations to the City Council within time frame set for preliminary plats
in §§
153.040 et seq. The application shall include a cover letter that states fully
the grounds for the request and all of the facts relied upon by the applicant.
The zoning administrator will provide an application form. The subdivider will
pay the fee as established in the city’s fee schedule.
   (D)   Planned unit developments. If a subdivider is proposing a planned unit
development concurrent with a subdivision, any variances to these regulations
or variances to the regulations in the zoning regulations will be addressed in
the planned unit development review process.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.011 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the zoning administrator to enforce these
regulations and to bring to the attention of the City Council and city attorney
any violations of these regulations.
   (B)   No owner, or agent of the owner, of any parcel of the land located in
a proposed subdivision shall transfer or sell any part of the parcel before a
final plat of the subdivision has been approved by the City Council in
accordance with the provisions of the regulations filed with the Chisago County
recorder.
   (C)   The subdivision of any lot or any parcel of land by the use of metes
and bounds description for the purpose of sale, transfer, lease, or development
is prohibited except as provided in this chapter.
   (D)   No building permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure relocated on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in
violation of the provisions of these regulations, nor shall the municipality
have any obligation to issue certificates of occupancy or to extend utility
services to any parcel created in violation of these regulations.
   (E)   No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be granted or
issued if a developer or its authorized agent has violated any federal, state
or local law pertaining to:
      (1)   Consumer protection;
      (2)   Real estate land sales, promotion, or practices; or
      (3)   Any applicable conflicts-of-interest legislation with respect to
the lot or parcel of land which is the subject of the permit or certificate
until a court of competent jurisdiction so orders.
   (F)   With respect to any lot or parcel of land described in the immediately
preceding section, if a building permit or certificate of occupancy has been
granted or issued, it may be revoked by the municipality until a court of
competent jurisdiction orders otherwise, provided that in no event shall the
rights of intervening innocent third parties in possession of a certificate of
occupancy be prejudiced by any revocation.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.012 FEES.
   The City Council shall establish reasonable fees for the administration of
this chapter, which are contained in §
36.01 of the Harris City Code.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001; Am. Ord. 2005-3, passed 6-27-2005)
DEFINITIONS
§ 153.025 USAGE.
   (A)   For the purposes of these regulations, certain numbers, abbreviations,
terms, and words shall be used, interpreted, and defined as set forth in this
section.
   (B)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in
the present tense include the future tense and words used in the plural include
the singular.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.026 WORDS AND TERMS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE PUBLIC FACILITIES. Facilities determined to be capable of
supporting and servicing the physical area and designated intensity of the
proposed subdivision as determined by the City Council based upon specific
levels of service.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on some other street.
   APPLICANT. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or its representative
who shall have express written authority to act on behalf of the owner. Consent
shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.
   ARTERIAL STREET. A street or highway, as designated in the comprehensive
plan, that is intended to move through traffic to and from major attractors
such as central business districts, regional shopping centers, colleges and/or
universities, military installations, major industrial areas, and similar
traffic generators within the governmental unit; and/or as a route for traffic
between communities or large areas and/or which carries high volumes of
traffic.
   BLOCK. A tract of land bounded by streets, or by a combination of streets
and public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-way, shorelines of waterways,
or boundary lines of municipalities.
   BOND. Any form of a surety bond in an amount and form satisfactory to the
City Council. All BONDS shall be approved by the City Council whenever a bond
is required by these regulations.
   BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line and
property line.
   BUFFER. A naturally vegetated area or vegetated area along the exterior
boundaries of an entire development processed in accordance with a multiphase
or phased subdivision application which is landscaped and maintained as open
space in order to eliminate or minimize conflicts between the development and
adjacent land uses.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter, or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels, or movable property of any kind.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT. A public facility with a life expectancy of three or
more years, to be owned and operated by or on behalf of the municipality.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM. An itemized program for typically a five-year
prospective period that sets the schedule, timing and details of specific
capital improvements by year together with an estimated cost, the need for each
improvement, and potential financial resources for the project. The program is
reviewed annually or biennially with specific recommendations made to the
community’s capital budget.
   CENTRAL SEWER SYSTEM. A private sewer system including collection and
treatment facilities established by the developer to serve a new subdivision in
an outlying area.
   CENTRAL WATER SYSTEM. A private water company formed by a developer to serve
new subdivision in an outlying area. It includes water treatment and
distribution facilities.
   CERTIFY. Whenever these regulations require that an agency or official
certify the existence of some fact or circumstance, the municipality by
administrative rule may require that the certification be made in any manner,
oral or written, which provides reasonable assurance of the accuracy of the
certification.
   CITY ATTORNEY. The attorney or legal firm appointed or engaged by the City
Council to represent the city on questions arising under this chapter. The
licensed attorney designated by the City Council to furnish legal assistance
for the administration of these regulations.
   CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR. The person designated by the municipality to
enforce the building code.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Harris, Minnesota. The
authorized body of the municipality having the power to approve subdivisions
and adopt ordinances regulating the subdivision of land in the city.
   CITY ENGINEER. The engineer or engineering firm appointed or engaged by the
City Council to represent the city on questions arising under this chapter. The
licensed engineer designated by the City Council to furnish engineering
assistance for the administration of these regulations.
   CITY PLANNER. The planner or planning firm appointed or engaged by the City
Council to represent the city on questions arising under this chapter.
   CITY ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The city staff person designated by the city to
enforce the subdivision regulations and the zoning regulations.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT ZONING. A technique which allows lots to be reduced in
size and buildings sited closer together provided the total development density
does not exceed that which could be constructed on the site under conventional
zoning and the remaining land is utilized for open space or public purposes.
   COLLECTOR STREETS. A street, as designated in the city’s comprehensive plan,
intended to move traffic from local streets to arterial streets. Typically, a
COLLECTOR STREET serves a neighborhood or large subdivision and should be
designed so that no residential properties face onto it.
   COMMON OWNERSHIP. Ownership by the same person, corporation, firm, entity,
partnership, or unincorporated association; or ownership by different
corporations, firms, partnerships, entities, or unincorporated associations, in
which a stockbroker, partner, associate, and/or family member together own a
controlling interest in a corporation, firm, partnership, entity, or
unincorporated association.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A plan adopted by the City Council for development of
the community and includes any part of the plan separately adopted and any
amendment to the plan, or parts thereof.
   CONDOMINIUM. A unit available for sale in fee simple contained in a multi-
occupancy project subject to covenants and restrictions placing control over
the common facilities in an elected board.
   CONSTRUCTION PLAN. The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat and
showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in the
subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the Planning Commission as a
condition of the approval of the plat.
   CONTIGUOUS. Lots are CONTIGUOUS when at least one boundary line of one lot
touches a boundary line or lines of another lot.
   COOPERATIVE. An entire project which is under the common ownership of a
Board of Directors with units leased and stock sold to individual cooperators.
   CORE SERVICE AREA. The area as designated in the comprehensive plan for
public water and sewer services.
   COUNTY. Chisago County, Minnesota.
   CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A local street with only one outlet that terminates in a
vehicular turnaround.
   DESIGN CRITERIA. Standards that set forth specific improvement requirements.
   DEVELOPER. The owner of land proposed to be subdivided or its representative
who is responsible for any undertaking that requires review and/or approval
under these regulations. See SUBDIVIDER.
   DEVELOPER’S AGREEMENT. A consensual agreement between the City Council and a
developer conditioning approval of a plat upon the construction and
installation of, and/or the payment for designated improvements, facilities
and/or amenities.
   EASEMENT. Authorization by a property owner for another party to use the
owner’s property for a specified purpose. PRIVATE EASEMENTS are authorizations
between private parties and not available to the general public. PUBLIC
EASEMENTS are authorizations between a private landowner and the public.
   ESCROW. A deposit of cash with the city or escrow agent to secure the
promise to perform some act.
   FINAL PLAT. The map of a subdivision to be recorded after approval by the
City Council and any accompanying material as described in these regulations.
   FRONTAGE. That side of a lot abutting on a street or way and ordinarily
regarded as the front of the lot; but it shall not be considered as the
ordinary side of a corner lot.
   GRADE. The slope of a road, street, or other public way specified in
percentage terms.
   HEALTH, SAFETY, OR GENERAL WELFARE. The purpose for which municipalities may
adopt and enforce land use regulations for the prevention of harm or promotion
of public benefit to the community; commonly referred to as police power.
   HIGHWAY, LIMITED ACCESS. A freeway or expressway providing a trafficway for
through traffic, in respect to which owners or occupants of abutting property
on lands and other persons have no legal right to access to or from the same,
except at points and in a manner as may be determined by the public authority
having jurisdiction over the trafficway.
   HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION. See PROPERTY OWNERS ASSOCIATION.
   IMPROVEMENTS. See LOT IMPROVEMENT or PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.
   INDIVIDUAL SEWER TREATMENT SYSTEM (ISTS). An on-site sanitary sewer
treatment system or any other approved sewage treatment device.
   INFILL DEVELOPMENT. Development designed to occupy scattered or vacant
parcels of land which remain after the majority of development has occurred in
an area.
   LANDSCAPING. Acting with the purpose of meeting specific criteria regarding
uses of outside space, including ground cover, buffers, and shade trees.
   LOCAL STREET. A road, as designated in the comprehensive plan, whose
function is to provide access to abutting properties and to other roads from
individual properties and to provide right-of-way beneath it for sanitary
sewer, water, and storm sewer lines, street trees, sidewalks and trails and
other public purposes as approved by the City Council.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision intended as a unit for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, of transfer of ownership, or possession, or for building
development.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intersection of two streets, the interior
angle of that intersection not exceeding 135 degrees.
   LOT IMPROVEMENT. Any building, structure, place, work of art, or other
object situated on a lot.
   LOT WIDTH. The dimension of a lot measured at the building setback line or
as further established by in the zoning regulations.
   MAJOR SUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION, MAJOR.
   MARKET VALUE. The fair market value of a designated unit at the time the
value is determined by the City Council.
   METES AND BOUNDS SUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION, METES AND BOUNDS.
    MINIMUM DESIGN STANDARDS. The guidelines, principles and specifications for
the design and layout of subdivisions indicating among other things, the
minimum and maximum dimensions of the various elements set forth in the
preliminary and final plats.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION, MINOR.
   MODEL HOME. A dwelling unit used initially for display purposes which
typifies the type of units that will be constructed in the subdivision and
which will not be permanently occupied during its use as a model.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Harris, Minnesota.
   NEW DEVELOPMENT. A project involving the construction, reconstruction,
redevelopment, conversion, structural alteration, relocation, or enlargement of
any structure; or any use or extension of land; any of which has the effect of
increasing the requirements for capital improvements, measured by number of
service units to be generated by activity, and which requires either the
approval of a plat pursuant to the city’s subdivision regulations, the issuance
of a building permit, or connection to the city’s water or sanitary sewer
system.
   NONRESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or industrial.
   OFF-SITE. Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the common ownership of the applicant for
subdivision approval.
   OFFICIAL MAP. The map established by the City Council pursuant to state law
that lay out new streets, street widenings or extensions, parks, public sites
and other public facilities The OFFICIAL MAP and any amendments or additions,
are adopted by the City Council.
   ORDINANCE. Any legislative action, however denominated, of the municipality
which has the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any ordinance.
   OWNER. The record owners of the fee or a vendee in possession, including any
person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations, or any
other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient proprietary interest in
the land sought to be subdivided under the definition of SAME OWNERSHIP.
   PERIMETER STREET. Any existing street to which the parcel of land to be
subdivided abuts on only one side.
   PERSON. Any individual or group of individuals, or any corporation, general
or limited partnership, joint venture, unincorporated association, or
governmental or quasi-governmental entity.
   PHASED SUBDIVISION APPLICATION. An application for subdivision approval
submitted pursuant to a master preliminary plat, or at the option of the
subdivider, pursuant to a specific plan in which the applicant proposes to
immediately subdivide the property but will develop in one or more individual
phase(s) over a period of time. A PHASED SUBDIVISION APPLICATION may include an
application for approval of, or conversion to, horizontal or vertical
condominiums, nonresidential development projects, planned unit developments,
mixed-use projects, and residential developments.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A development constructed on a tract of
minimum size under single ownership planned and developed as an integral unit
and consisting of a combination of residential and/or nonresidential uses on
the land.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The City of Harris Planning Commission as established
in accordance with law.
   POLICE POWER. Inherent, delegated, or authorized legislative power for
purposes of regulation to secure health, safety, and general welfare.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be
submitted to the Planning Commission and City Council for approval.
   PRIVATE COVENANTS. Contracts entered into between private parties and
constituting a restriction on the use of private property within a subdivision
for the benefit of the property owners to provide mutual protection against
undesirable aspects of development which would tend to impair stability of
values.
   PRIVATE STREET. A privately owned street.
   PROPERTY OWNERS ASSOCIATION. An association or organization, whether or not
incorporated, which operates under and pursuant to recorded covenants or deed
restrictions, through which each owner of a portion of a subdivision, be it a
lot, parcel site, unit plot, condominium, or any other interest, is
automatically a member as a condition of ownership and each member is subject
to a charge or assessment for a pro-rated share of expense of the association
which may become a lien against the lot, parcel, unit, condominium, or other
interest of the member.
   PUBLIC HEARING. An adjudicatory proceeding held by the Planning Commission
preceded by published notice and actual notice to certain persons and at which
certain persons, including the applicant, may call witnesses and introduce
evidence for the purpose of demonstrating that plat approval should or should
not be granted. The rules of civil procedure binding on the courts shall not,
however, bind the Planning Commission.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, sidewalk,
pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-street parking area, lot improvement, or other
facility for which the municipality may ultimately assume the responsibility
for maintenance and operation, or which may effect an improvement for which
municipality responsibility is established.
   PUBLIC MEETING. A meeting of the Planning Commission or City Council
preceded by notice, open to the public and at which the public may, at the
discretion of the body holding the public meeting, be heard.
   REGISTERED ENGINEER. An engineer properly licensed and registered in the
state.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR. A land surveyor properly licensed and registered
in the state.
   RESUBDIVISION. Any change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision
plat that affects any street layout on the map or area reserved thereon for
public use or any lot line, or that affects any map or plan legally recorded
prior to the adoption of any regulations controlling subdivisions.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or for any
other special use. The usage of the term RIGHT-OF-WAY for land platting
purposes shall mean that every right-of-way hereafter established and shown on
a final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining
the right-of-way and not included within the dimensions or areas of the lots or
parcels. RIGHTS-OF-WAY intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, sanitary
sewers, storm drains, shade trees, or any other use involving maintenance by a
public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on
which the right-of-way is established as determined by the City Council.
   ROAD, CLASSIFICATION. For the purpose of providing for the development of
the streets, highways, roads and rights-of-way in the governmental unit, and
for their future improvement, reconstruction, realignment, and necessary
widening, including provision for curbs and sidewalks, each existing street,
highway, road, and right-of-way, and those located on approved and filed plats,
have been designated in the comprehensive plan of the municipality and
classified therein The classification of each street, highway, road, and right-
of-way is based upon its location in the respective zoning districts of the
municipality and its present and estimated future traffic volume and its
relative importance and function as specified in the comprehensive plan of the
municipality.
   ROAD, DEAD-END. A road or a portion of a road with only one vehicular-
traffic outlet.
   ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH. The distance between property lines measured at
right angles to the centerline of the street.
   RURAL SERVICE AREA. The area in the city, as designated in the comprehensive
plan, outside of the core service area and these areas are not available to
public water and sewer services.
   SALE or LEASE. Any immediate or future transfer of ownership, or any
possessory interest in land, including contract of sale, lease, devise,
interstate succession, or other transfer of an interest in a subdivision or
part thereof, whether by metes and bounds or lot and block description.
   SCREENING. Either:
      (1)   A strip at least ten feet wide of densely planted (or having
equivalent natural growth) shrubs or trees at least four feet high at the time
of planting, of a type that will form a year-round dense screen at least six
feet high; or
      (2)   An opaque wall or barrier or uniformly painted fence at least six
feet high.
   SECURITY. The letter of credit or cash escrow provided by the applicant to
secure its promises in the subdivision improvement agreement.
   SETBACK. The distance between a building and the property line.
   SHADE TREE. A tree in a public place, street, special easement, or right-of-
way adjoining a street as provided in these regulations.
   SKETCH PLAT. A sketch preparatory to the preliminary plat (or final plat in
the case of minor subdivisions) to enable the subdivider to save time and
expense in reaching general agreement with the Planning Commission as to the
form of the plat and the objectives of these regulations.
   STREET. A public way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a street,
highway, thoroughfare, arterial, parkway, throughway, road, avenue, lane, place
or however otherwise designated.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right-
of-way of a street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected.
   SUBDIVIDE. The act or process of creating a subdivision.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any person who:
       (1)   Having an interest in land, causes it, directly or indirectly, to
be divided into a subdivision;
       (2)   Who directly or indirectly, sells, leases, or develops, or offers
to sell, lease, or develop, or advertises to sell, lease, or develop, any
interest, lot, parcel site, unit, or plat in a subdivision;
      (3)   Who engages directly or through an agent in the business of
selling, leasing, developing, or offering for sale, lease, or development a
subdivision or any interest, lot, parcel site, unit, or plat in a subdivision;
and
      (4)   Who is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under direct or
indirect common control with any of the foregoing.
   SUBDIVISION. Any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed to
be divided into two or more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, condominiums,
tracts, or interests for the purpose of offer, sale, lease, or development
whether immediate or future, either on the installment plan or upon any and all
other plans, terms, and conditions. SUBDIVISION includes the division or
development of residentially and nonresidentially zoned land, whether by deed,
metes and bounds description, devise, intestacy, lease, map, plat, or other
recorded instrument. SUBDIVISION includes metes and bounds subdivision, minor
subdivision, major subdivision, resubdivision, and condominium creation or
conversion.
   SUBDIVISION AGENT. Any person who represents, or acts for or on behalf of, a
subdivider or developer, in selling, leasing, or developing, or offering to
sell, lease, or develop any interest, lot, parcel, unit, site, or plat in a
subdivision, except an attorney-at-law whose representation of another person
consists solely of rendering legal services.
   SUBDIVISION, MAJOR. All subdivisions not classified as minor subdivisions,
including but not limited to any size subdivision requiring any new street or
extension of the public improvements or facilities, located in sensitive areas
such as floodplains or shorelands or the dedication of any public rights-of-
way.
   SUBDIVISION, METES AND BOUNDS. A subdivision created by a metes and bounds
survey which describes the land by measure of length (metes) and boundary lines
(bounds).
   SUBDIVISION, MINOR.
      (1)   Subdivisions where:
         (a)   A platted recorded lot is being split into a maximum of five
lots; or
         (b)   A maximum of five lots are being combined into four or fewer
lots. All resulting lots must meet the minimum lot size and area requirements
listed in the applicable zoning district regulations.
      (2)   The minor subdivision process shall not be allowed in the following
situations:
         (a)   Any lot within an approved planned unit development (PUD);
         (b)   Any unplatted lands;
         (c)   Where the subdivision includes the dedication of additional
right-of-way or private or public easements, or a change in existing streets,
alleys, water mains, sewer mains or other major public improvements; and
         (d)   Where new streets, utilities, or other public improvements will
be needed other than to directly serve the lots created and to provide a direct
connection to an existing and approved system.
   TEMPORARY IMPROVEMENT. Improvements built and maintained by a subdivider
during construction of the subdivision and prior to release of the performance
bond.
   TRACT. A lot. The term TRACT is used interchangeably with the term LOT,
particularly in the context or subdivision, where a TRACT is subdivided into
several lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, condominiums, tracts, or interests.
   TRANSFER OF DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS. The conveyance of development rights by
deed, easement, or other legal instrument, authorized by ordinance or
regulation, to another parcel of land and the recording of that conveyance.
   VESTED RIGHTS. Right to initiate or continue the establishment of a use
which will be contrary to a restriction or regulation coming into effect when
the project associated with the use is completed.
   ZONING CODE. The zoning regulations controlling the use of land in the City
of Harris as adopted by the City Council,
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION PROCEDURE AND APPROVAL PROCESS
§ 153.040 GENERAL PROCEDURES FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Classification of subdivisions. Before any land is subdivided, the
owner of the property proposed to be subdivided or authorized agent, shall
apply for and secure approval of the proposed subdivision in accordance with
the procedures established in this chapter and as defined in §
153.026.
Metes and Bounds Subdivision
Metes and Bounds Subdivision
Metes and Bounds Survey
Minor Subdivision
Sketch Plat
Final Plat
Major Subdivision
Sketch Plat
Preliminary Plat
Final Plat
 
   (B)   Determination of subdivision classification. The zoning administrator
shall determine the type of subdivision classification a proposed project is at
the time of the pre-application meeting or application submittal as defined in
the following table.
 
Table 1
Subdivision Classifications
               Minimum Size of Maximum Number  Improvements     Shoreland and
Classification Original Parcel of Lots Allowed Requirements or  Sensitive Areas
                                               ROW
               Ten acres in R-
               2; no minimum   two lots
Metes and      lot size in                     None required
Bounds         other zones                     except road      Not allowed
Subdivision    15 acres or                     easements
               more            three lots

                                               None required by Allowed only if
Minor          Not applicable  five or less    the proposed     land was
Subdivision                                    subdivision      previously
                                                                platted
                               2 or more lots,
Major                          (varies with    Required for the
Subdivision    Not applicable  need for ROW,   proposed         Required
                               improvements,   subdivision
                               intensity)
 
   (C)   Official submission dates. For the purpose of these regulations, the
official submission date or starting date for the 60-day rule and the 120-day
preliminary plat review as set by the State of Minnesota, shall be the date in
which a written request that includes a completed preliminary plat application,
as determined by the zoning administrator, is received for a major subdivision.
The 60-day rule will apply to each of the subdivision procedures including
preliminary plats, final plats, and metes and bounds subdivision plats.
   (D)   Coordination of planned unit development zoning applications.
      (1)   General requirements. Whenever the zoning regulations authorizes
planned unit development zoning applications and the application entails the
division of the land, vacant or improved, into two or more lots, parcels,
sites, units, plots, or interests for the purpose of offer, sale, lease, or
development, whether residential or nonresidential, major subdivision approval
by the City Council shall be required in addition to all other procedures and
approvals required in the zoning regulations, whether or not applicable zoning
procedures also require City Council approval.
      (2)   Intent. It is the intent of these regulations that subdivision
review be carried out simultaneously with the review of planned unit
development (PUD) zoning applications under the zoning regulations. The plans
required for these types of zoning applications shall be submitted in a form to
satisfy the requirements of the subdivision regulations.
      (3)   Procedure to be followed.
         (a)   Sketch plat and preliminary plat approval required. Whenever a
planned unit development zoning application is submitted which involves a
subdivision of land as set forth in these regulations, a concurrent submittal
of a subdivision application shall be submitted to the city. The application
shall be made on the forms required for a sketch plat and preliminary plat as
set forth in this chapter and shall include all information required of a
sketch plat application.
         (b)   Final plat approval required. A final plat of the final approved
planned unit development application must be approved by the City Council. No
building permits or certificates of occupancy shall be issued for the project
until the zoning application has been finally approved by the city and the
final subdivision plat is recorded with the Chisago County recorder’s office.
      (4)   Resubdivisions of planned unit development zoning.
         (a)   A planned unit development may be resubdivided for purposes of
sale or lease after the project plan has been finally approved and development
completed or partially completed.
         (b)   If the resubdivision of a planned unit development will create a
new lot line, the applicant shall make application to the Planning Commission
for the approval of the major subdivision. The City Council may waive this
requirement if it determines that the resubdivision will not significantly
alter the character of the project.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-27-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-,
passed - -; Am. Ord. 2022-02, passed 1-10-2022) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.041 PRE-APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   In order to become familiar with these regulations and related laws and to
avoid costly revisions of plans and plats, the subdivider is encouraged to have
preliminary discussions with the zoning administrator, the development review
team and the Planning Commission before submitting a preliminary plat
application.
   (A)   Meeting with zoning administrator. Before preparing the sketch plat
for a subdivision, the applicant may meet with the zoning administrator to
discuss the procedure for approval of a subdivision plat and the requirements
in this chapter and other applicable regulations.
   (B)   Pre-application meeting with city’s development review team.  Before
preparing the sketch plat for a subdivision, the applicant may meet with the
city’s development review team to discuss the procedure for approval of a
subdivision plat and the requirements in this chapter and other applicable
regulations. The development review team will hold at least two meetings per
month or as needed. Members of the team can include the zoning administrator,
public works foreperson, Fire Chief, city attorney, city engineer, city planner
and others as determined by the city. The zoning administrator may also invite
those officials who must eventually approve various aspects of the subdivision
plat coming within their jurisdiction. Items to be discussed include the
general layout of streets, blocks and lots, reservations of land for public
uses, street improvements, drainage, sewerage, fire protection, and similar
matters, as well as the availability of existing services.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.042 METES AND BOUNDS SURVEY.
   Creation of a maximum of three lots where no lot is less than required
minimum lot size by zone, may be subdivided by metes and bounds description if
it is in accordance with the Harris zoning regulations and according to the
following.
   (A)   Submittal. The application shall:
      (1)   Be made on forms available from the zoning administrator;
      (2)   Include all contiguous holdings of the owner including land in
common ownership as defined in these regulations;
      (3)   Be accompanied by minimum of five copies of the certified land
survey as described in §§
153.105 et seq. and complying in all respects with these regulations;
      (4)   A title insurance commitment or an opinion of title by the
subdivider’s attorney, addressed to the city;
      (5)   Receipts for the payment in full of real estate taxes and
assessments due and payable in the year in which the final plat will be
approved; and
      (6)   Be accompanied by a fee as established in the city’s fee schedule.
   (B)   Referral of metes and bounds survey. The zoning administrator shall
transmit the metes and bounds survey for review to members of the development
review team and appropriate officials or agencies. The zoning administrator
shall request that all officials and agencies to whom a request for review has
been made, submit their report to the city within 15 calendar days after
receipt of the request. If no report is received within 15 days, it will be
assumed by the zoning administrator that there are no objections to the survey
as submitted.
   (C)   Zoning administrator authority. The zoning administrator is authorized
to approve or disapprove with reasons all metes and bounds subdivisions.
   (D)   Recording. A final copy of the survey shall be submitted to the city
after the title has been recorded. If the survey and title is not recorded
within 180 days after notification of approval, the zoning administrator may
rescind approval and notify the county recorder’s office. The zoning
administrator shall give at least ten business days written notice to the
applicant prior to the action to rescind.
   (E)   Future subdivisions. No metes and bounds subdivisions will allowed on
any of the contiguous holdings of the subdivider described in division (A)(2)
above for a period of three years after the date of any metes and bounds
subdivision.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-27-2005; Am. Ord. 2022-02,
passed 1-10-2022) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.043 SKETCH PLAT.
   The owner of the land, or his or her authorized agent, may file an
application for review and comments of a sketch plat with the city’s Planning
Commission.
   (A)   Submittal. The application shall:
      (1)   Be made on forms available from the zoning administrator;
      (2)   Include all contiguous holdings of the owner including land in
common ownership as defined in these regulations; and
      (3)   Be accompanied by minimum of 15 copies of the sketch plat as
described in §§
153.105 et seq. and complying in all respects with these regulations.
   (B)   Referral of sketch plat. The zoning administrator shall transmit the
sketch plat for review to member of the development review team and appropriate
officials or agencies. The zoning administrator shall request that all
officials and agencies to whom a request for review has been made submit their
report to the city within 30 calendar days after receipt of the request. The
zoning administrator will consolidate all the reports submitted by the
officials and agencies concerning the sketch plat and shall submit a report to
the Planning Commission. If no report is received from the zoning administrator
within 30 calendar days, it will be assumed by the Planning Commission that
there are no objections in the plan as submitted.
   (C)   Planning Commission review. The Planning Commission shall review the
sketch plat and forward its recommendations to the City Council within the time
frame prescribed by law.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-27-2005)
§ 153.044 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW.
   (A)   Purpose. The State of Minnesota established an environmental review
process for large projects that have the potential to cause significant impacts
on a community and its environment. The function of the Minnesota Environmental
Review Program is to avoid and minimize damage to Minnesota’s environmental
resources caused by public and private actions The program accomplishes this by
requiring certain proposed projects to undergo special review procedures prior
to obtaining approvals and permits otherwise needed.
   (B)   When required. The mandatory and exemption categories are established
in Minnesota Rules, Parts 4410.4300, 4410.4400 and 4410.4600, as they may be
amended from time to time by the State of Minnesota. Development proposals that
exceed the stated thresholds must complete the required environmental review
process prior to the approval of the preliminary plat by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.045 PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE.
   The owner of the land, or authorized agent, shall file an application for
review by the Planning Commission and approval from the City Council of a
preliminary plat.
   (A)   Submittal. The application shall:
      (1)   Be made on forms available from the zoning administrator;
      (2)   Include all contiguous holdings of the owner including land in
common ownership as defined in these regulations;
      (3)   Be accompanied by minimum of 20 copies of the preliminary plat as
described in §§
153.105 et seq. and complying in all respects with these regulations;
      (4)   Include a list of names and addresses of all property owners within
350 feet of the proposed subdivision boundaries of the proposed subdivision by
a certified abstract firm or equivalent;
      (5)   Be accompanied by a minimum of three copies of the preliminary
construction plans as described in these regulations;
      (6)   Comply in all respects with the sketch plat and recommendations
from the Planning Commission;
      (7)   Be accompanied by a fee as established in the city’s fee schedule;
      (8)   If the subdivider requests, or the Council requires that any
existing special assessments which have been levied against the premises
described in the subdivision be divided and allocated to the respective lots in
subdivision plat, the assessor shall estimate the clerical cost of preparing
the revised assessment roll, filing the same with the county auditor, and
making the division and allocation, and upon approval by the county of the
estimated cost the same shall be paid to the community treasurer in addition to
the plat review fees, to cover the cost of preparing and filing the revised
assessment; and
      (9)   Be presented to the zoning administrator at least four weeks prior
to a regular meeting of the Commission.
   (B)   Complete application. The zoning administrator shall review the
preliminary plat application to determine if it is complete. Within 15 business
days after receipt of the application, the zoning administrator shall notify
the applicant in writing if the application is incomplete, stating the items
required to be submitted in order for the application to be considered
complete. The city shall review the application within the time frame
prescribed by law, commencing on the date a completed application has been
received. References to other review deadlines in this chapter that are
inconsistent with the maximum time frames allowed by law shall be considered
advisory only and not compulsory.
   (C)   Referral of preliminary plat. The zoning administrator shall transmit
the preliminary plat for review to member of the development review team and
appropriate officials or agencies as deemed necessary or as mandated by law.
The zoning administrator shall request that all officials and agencies to whom
a request for review has been made, submit their report to the city within 30
calendar days after receipt of the request. The zoning administrator will
consolidate all the reports submitted by the officials and agencies concerning
the preliminary plat and shall submit a report to the Planning Commission. If
no report is received from the zoning administrator within 15 calendar days, it
will be assumed by the Planning Commission that there are no objections in the
plan as submitted.
   (D)   Public notice and hearing. Upon receipt of a completed application for
preliminary plat, the zoning administrator shall set a public hearing for the
next scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission to be held at least four
weeks after the date of the application. The zoning administrator shall submit
a notice for publication in the official city newspaper at least ten calendar
days prior to the public hearing. The zoning administrator shall mail notices
to all property owners within 350 feet of the proposed subdivision and shall
maintain file copies of the plat and construction plans when appropriate for
public review prior to the hearing. The Planning Commission shall receive all
public testimony on the proposed plat. It shall make a recommendation to the
City Council by either approval, conditional approval, or disapprove with
reasons stated.
   (E)   City Council review and approval. The zoning administrator will
forward the Planning Commission’s recommendation, any public testimony, staff
report, and application to the City Council for their review. The City Council
shall approve, conditionally approve, or deny the preliminary plat within the
time frame prescribed by law. If the applicant waives the 60-day rule under
M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 3b, as it may be amended from time to time, the city has
120 days to approve or disapprove the preliminary plat, unless an extension of
the review period has been agreed to by the applicant. If the report of the
Planning Commission has not been received in time to meet these requirements,
the Council may act on the preliminary plat without a report. If the
preliminary plat is not approved, the reasons for the action shall be recorded
in the proceedings and transmitted to the applicant. If the preliminary plan is
approved, the approval shall not constitute final acceptance of the
subdivision. All conditions required by the Council shall be submitted in
writing to the applicant. The approval of a preliminary plat is an acceptance
of the general layout as submitted, and indicates to the subdivider that he or
she may proceed toward fulfilling the necessary steps for approval of the final
plat in accordance with the terms of approval.
   (F)   Preliminary plat revisions. After the City Council has approved the
preliminary plat and construction plans, the city may require that a revised
preliminary plat or other submittal item be revised and resubmitted before the
final plat can be applied for. The zoning administrator shall advise the
applicant of any required changes and/or additions. One copy of the revised
preliminary plat shall be returned to the city.
   (G)   Standards for approval of preliminary plats.
      (1)   No preliminary plat of a proposed subdivision shall be approved by
the City Council unless the applicant proves by clear and convincing evidence
that:
         (a)   The subdivision is in conformance with the comprehensive plan
including the natural resources, land use, transportation, public facilities
elements of the plan;
         (b)   All applicable provisions of the City Code are complied with;
         (c)   The area surrounding the subdivision can be planned and
developed in coordination with and compatible with the proposed subdivision;
         (d)   Definite provision has been made for a water supply system that
is sufficient in terms of quantity, dependability, and quality to provide an
appropriate supply of water for the type of subdivision proposed;
         (e)   Adequate provision has been made for sanitary sewer service and,
if other methods of sewage disposal are proposed, that the systems will comply
with federal, state, and local laws and regulations;
         (f)   All areas of the proposed subdivision which may involve soil or
topographical conditions presenting hazards or requiring special precautions
have been identified by the subdivider and that the proposed uses of these
areas are compatible with the conditions;
         (g)   The proposed subdivision preserves the site’s important natural,
cultural or historic features whenever possible;
         (h)   The proposed subdivision will not result in the scattered
subdivision of land that leaves undeveloped parcels of land lacking urban
services between developed parcels; and
         (i)   The subdivider has taken every effort to mitigate the impact of
the proposed subdivision on public health, safety, and welfare.
      (2)   The City Council may disapprove a preliminary plat even though the
land proposed for subdivision is zoned for the use to which the proposed
subdivision will be put and the proposed use is consistent with the
comprehensive plan if these standards are not meet.
   (H)   Public improvements. The City Council may require that all public
improvements be installed and dedicated prior to the signing of the final
subdivision plat by the city officials. If the City Council does not require
that all public improvements be installed and dedicated prior to signing of the
final subdivision plat, the City Council shall require that the applicant
execute a developer’s agreement and provide security for the agreement as
provided in §§
153.065 et seq.
   (I)   Effective period of preliminary plat approval. The approval of a
preliminary plat shall be effective for a period of one year from the date that
the preliminary plat is approved by the City Council, at the end of which time
the applicant must have submitted a final subdivision plat for approval. If a
subdivision plat is not submitted for final approval within the one-year
period, the preliminary approval shall be null and void, and the applicant
shall be required to submit a new preliminary plat for review subject to the
then applicable zoning restrictions and subdivision regulations.
   (J)   Zoning and subdivision regulations. Every preliminary plat shall
conform to existing zoning regulations and subdivision regulations applicable
at the time that the proposed preliminary is submitted for the approval by the
City Council unless the City Council has taken official action toward amending
the applicable zoning and subdivision regulations and the applicant has reason
to know of that action.
   (K)   Model homes. For the purpose of allowing the early construction of
model homes in a subdivision, the City Council may permit a portion of a major
subdivision involving no more than two homes to be constructed with proper
permits, provided the lots derive access from an existing city, township,
county, or state highway, and provided no future road or other improvement is
anticipated where the lots are proposed. The request for model homes shall be
made concurrent with the application for preliminary plat approval. The model
homes may be subject to additional requirements as determined by the City
Council under the terms in the developer’s agreement.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-27-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.046 AMENDMENTS TO PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   At any time after preliminary plat approval and before submission of a final
plat, the applicant may request that an amendment be made in the approval or
conditional approval of the preliminary plat. The Planning Commission shall
hold a public hearing on the proposed amendment in accordance with the same
requirements for preliminary plat approval found in this section. Any public
hearing on a proposed amendment shall be limited to whether the proposed major
amendment should or should not be approved. The Commission shall make a
recommendation to the City Council on whether to approve or disapprove any part
or all of the proposed amendment and may make any modifications in the terms
and conditions of preliminary plat approval reasonably related to the proposed
amendment. If the applicant is unwilling to accept the proposed major amendment
under the terms and conditions required by the Commission, the applicant may
withdraw the proposed amendment.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.047 FINAL PLAT PROCEDURE.
   The owner of the land, or authorized agent, shall file an application for
review by the Planning Commission and approval from the City Council of a final
plat.
   (A)   Submittal. The application shall:
      (1)   Be made on forms available from the zoning administrator;
      (2)   Include all contiguous holdings of the owner including land in
common ownership as defined in these regulations;
      (3)   Be accompanied by minimum of 20 copies of the final plat as
described in §§
153.105 et seq. and complying in all respects with these regulations;
      (4)   Be accompanied by the developer’s agreement and security, if
required, in a form satisfactory to the city attorney and in an amount
established by the city engineer. The developer’s agreement shall include a
provision that the subdivider shall comply with all the terms of the resolution
of final subdivision plat approval as determined by the Planning Commission and
shall include, but not be limited to, the performance of all required
subdivision and off-site improvements, and that all improvements and land
included in the irrevocable offer of dedication shall be dedicated to the City
of Harris free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the premises;
      (5)   Be accompanied by a minimum of three copies of the final
construction plans as described in these regulations;
      (6)   A title insurance commitment or an opinion of title by the
subdivider’s attorney addressed to the city;
      (7)   Receipts for the payment in full of real estate taxes and
assessments due and payable in the year in which the final plat will be
approved;
      (8)   Comply in all respects with the preliminary plat and
recommendations from the Planning Commission;
      (9)   A check payable to the Chisago County recorder in the amount of the
current filing fee shall be provided;
      (10)   Be accompanied by a fee as established in the city’s fee schedule;
and
      (11)   Be presented to the zoning administrator at least four weeks prior
to a regular meeting of the Commission.
   (B)   Complete application. The zoning administrator shall review the final
plat application to determine if it is complete. Within 15 business days after
receipt of the application the zoning administrator shall notify the applicant
in writing if the application is incomplete, stating the items required to be
submitted in order for the application to be considered complete. The city
shall review the application within the time frame prescribed by law,
commencing on the date a completed application has been received. References to
other review deadlines in this chapter that are inconsistent with the maximum
time frames allowed by law shall be considered advisory only and not
compulsory.
   (C)   Referral of final plat. The zoning administrator shall transmit the
final plat for review to members of the development review team and appropriate
officials or agencies as deemed necessary or as mandated by law. The zoning
administrator shall request that all officials and agencies to whom a request
for review has been made, submit their report to the city within 30 calendar
days after receipt of the request. The zoning administrator will consolidate
all the reports submitted by the officials and agencies concerning the final
plat and shall submit a report to the Planning Commission. If no report is
received within 15 calendar days, it will be assumed by the Planning Commission
that there are no objections in the plan as submitted.
   (D)   Planning Commission review. Upon referral of the final plat the
Planning Commission shall recommend that the plat be approved or denied and
forward its findings to the City Council.
   (E)   City Council review and approval. The zoning administrator will
forward the Planning Commission’s recommendation, any public testimony, staff
report, and application to the City Council for their review. The City Council
shall approve or disapprove the final plat within 60 calendar days from its
official submission date unless an extension is requested by the applicant.
   (F)   Endorsement of health authorities. The final subdivision plat shall be
properly endorsed by the appropriate county and/or state health department
agencies with respect to all sewer and water facilities and that same comply
with all rules, regulations, and requirements of local government, regional,
state, and federal authorities.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001; Am. Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-27-2005) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.048 SIGNING AND RECORDING OF SUBDIVISION PLAT.
   (A)   Signing of plat.
      (1)   When installation of improvements is required prior to recordation
of the final plat, there shall be written evidence that:
         (a)   The city engineer has signed a certificate stating that all of
the required public facilities have been installed in a manner satisfactory to
the city;
         (b)   The city attorney has stated that the necessary dedication of
public lands and improvements has been accomplished; and
         (c)   The zoning administrator has confirmed that all conditions of
the resolution have been satisfied.
      (2)   When installation of improvements is not required prior to
recordation of the final plat, there shall be written evidence that:
         (a)   The city engineer has determined the appropriate amounts for
security of the required public facilities have been provided in a manner
satisfactory to the city;
         (b)   The city attorney stating that the necessary dedication of
public lands and improvements has been accomplished; and
         (c)   The zoning administrator has confirmed that all conditions of
the resolution have been satisfied.
      (3)   The chairperson of the Planning Commission shall endorse approval
on the final plat after appropriate documents listed above have been made. The
chairperson will sign the tracing cloth or reproducible mylar original of the
final subdivision plat and two sepia prints of the final subdivision plat The
sepia prints will be returned to the applicant’s engineer.
   (B)   Recordation of plat. It shall be the responsibility of the zoning
administrator to file the final plat with the Chisago County recorder’s office
within ten business days of the date of signature. Simultaneously, with the
filing of the final plat, the zoning administrator shall record the developer’s
agreement and any dedication together with legal documents as shall be required
to be recorded by the city attorney.
   (C)   Sectionalizing major subdivision plats. Prior to granting final
approval of a major subdivision plat, the City Council may permit the plat to
be divided into two or more sections and may impose conditions upon the filing
of the sections as it may deem necessary to assure the orderly development of
the plat. The City Council may require that the developer’s agreement and
security be in an amount as is commensurate with the section or sections of the
plat to be filed and may defer the remaining amount of the security until the
remaining sections of the plat are offered for filing. The sections must
contain at least 30% of the total number of lots contained in the approved
preliminary plat. The approval of all remaining sections not filed with the
county recorder’s office shall automatically expire unless the sections have
been approved for filing by the Planning Commission, all fees paid, all
instruments and offers of dedication submitted and developer’s agreements,
security and performance bonds, if any, approved and actually filed with the
county recorder’s office within three years of the date of final subdivision
approval of the subdivision plat.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.049 VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   Effect of approval. Except as otherwise provided in this section, no
vested rights shall accrue to the owner or developer of any subdivision by
reason of preliminary or final plat approval until the actual signing of the
final plat by the chairperson of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Effect of recordation. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
no vested rights shall accrue to the owner or developer of any subdivision by
virtue of the recordation of a final plat.
   (C)   Applicable laws. To obtain final plat approval, the applicant shall be
in compliance with all federal and state laws applicable at the time that the
final plat is considered for approval by the City Council. The applicant also
shall be in compliance with all local laws and regulations applicable at the
time that the preliminary plat was submitted to the Planning Commission in
accordance with §§
153.040 et seq., except that the applicant shall comply with those local laws
and regulations in effect at the time that the final plat is considered for
approval by the Commission if the Planning Commission makes a determination on
the record that compliance with any of those local laws and regulations is
reasonably necessary to protect public health and safety. If the Planning
Commission required the applicant to complete public improvements in the
subdivision prior to final plat approval, and the improvements have, in fact,
been completed, the applicant may be required to comply with local laws and
regulations in effect at the time that the final plat is considered for
approval only if the Planning Commission makes a finding on the record that
compliance is necessary to prevent a substantial risk of injury to public
health, safety and general welfare.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.050 APPEALS TO CITY COUNCIL.
   The applicant for subdivision approval may appeal the decisions made by the
zoning administrator or the Planning Commission by filing a notice of appeal
with the City Council, no later than 20 business days after the date of the
decision by the zoning administrator or the Planning Commission. The notice of
appeal shall set forth in clear and concise fashion the basis for the appeal.
The appeal shall be considered at the next regularly scheduled public meeting
of the City Council, at which time it may affirm or reverse the decision of the
zoning administrator or the Planning Commission. The City Council shall render
a decision affirming or reversing the Planning Commission no later than 45
calendar days after the date on which the notice of appeal is filed.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.051 VACATION OF PLATS, RIGHTS-OF-WAY AND PUBLIC EASEMENTS.
   (A)   The owner or owners of lots in any approved subdivision, including the
developer, may petition the city to vacate the plat or portions of the plat
with respect to their properties.
      (1)   Meeting with zoning administrator. Before preparing the application
for the vacation of a subdivision or portion thereof, the applicant may meet
with the zoning administrator to discuss the procedure for approval of a
subdivision and the requirements in this chapter and other applicable
regulations.
      (2)   Submittal. The application shall:
         (a)   Be made on forms available from the zoning administrator;
         (b)   Include all contiguous holdings of the owner including land in
common ownership as defined in these regulations;
         (c)   Be accompanied by minimum of ten copies of the certified land
survey as described in §
153.026 and complying in all respects with these regulations; and
         (d)   Be accompanied by a fee as established in the city’s fee
schedule.
      (3)   Referral of vacation application. The zoning administrator shall
transmit the application for review to members of the development review team
and appropriate officials or agencies. The zoning administrator shall request
that all officials and agencies to whom a request for review has been made,
submit their report to the city within 15 calendar days after receipt of the
request. If no report is received within 15 days, it will be assumed by the
zoning administrator that there are no objections in the survey as submitted.
      (4)   Public notice and hearing. The notice and hearing requirements
established for a preliminary plat in division (A)(2) above shall be followed
for all applications for vacations.
      (5)   Criteria. The City Council may approve all or a portion of the
petition to vacate. When considering whether to grant or deny a petition for
the vacation of a subdivision plat or portion thereof including a public
street, alley, or public easement, the City Council shall consider the
following:
         (a)   The proposed vacation is not in conflict with the city’s
comprehensive plan;
         (b)   The proposed vacation does not continue to serve any public
interest; and
         (c)   The terms and conditions of the vacation are reasonable to
protect public health, safety, and welfare.
      (6)   Recordation of revised plat. Upon approval of any petition for
vacation, the City Council may direct the petitioners to prepare a revised
final plat in accordance with these regulations. The revised final plat may be
recorded only after having been signed by the chairperson of the Planning
Commission and the city attorney.
   (B)   The city may initiate a vacation process to vacate a plat or portions
of the plat.
      (1)   General conditions. The Planning Commission, on its motion, may
initiate a process to vacate a plat of an approved subdivision when:
         (a)   No lots within the approved subdivision have been sold within
five years from the date that the plat was signed by the chairperson of the
Planning Commission;
         (b)   The developer has breached a developer’s agreement and the
municipality is unable to obtain funds with which to complete construction of
public improvements, except that the vacation shall apply only to lots owned by
the developer or its successor;
         (c)   The plat has been of record for more than five years and the
Planning Commission determines that the further sale of lots within the
subdivision presents a threat to public health, safety and welfare, except that
the vacation shall apply only to lots owned by the developer or its successor;
and
         (d)   A portion of a subdivision or public right-of-way or easement is
determined to be no longer necessary to serve the public.
      (2)   Procedure. Upon any motion of the Planning Commission to initiate
the vacation of a plat or portion thereof, shall follow the procedures
established in this section.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.052 RESUBDIVISIONS OF LAND.
   (A)   Procedure for resubdivision. Whenever a developer desires to
resubdivide an already approved major subdivision, the developer shall obtain
approval for the resubdivision by the same procedures prescribed for the major
subdivision of land.
   (B)   Resubdivision. Resubdivision includes:
      (1)   Any change in any street layout or any other public improvement; or
      (2)   Any change in the amount of land reserved for public use or the
common use of lot owners.
   (C)   Procedure for subdivisions when future resubdivision is indicated.
Whenever land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows one or more lots
containing more than one acre of land and there is reason to believe that the
lots eventually will be resubdivided, the Planning Commission may require that
the applicant provide for the future opening of streets and the ultimate
extension of adjacent streets. Easements providing for the future opening and
extension of streets maybe made a requirement of preliminary plat approval.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.053 LOT RECONFIGURATIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions and conditions for reconfigurations.
      (1)   Subdivision of land by metes and bounds description, for the
purpose of creating more beneficial configurations for the affected parcels,
may be allowed by administrative review and may be exempt from some
requirements of this chapter provided the following conditions or restrictions
are met:
         (a)   The proposed exchange of land area is between two or three
contiguous parcels;
         (b)   Certificates of survey with legal descriptions of existing
parcels and proposed parcels shall be required for lot reconfigurations;
         (c)   The exchange will not create a new buildable lot or add to the
total number of buildable lots existing prior to the reconfiguration, but will
change the shape, configuration, and legal description of the affected parcels;
         (d)   Each of the reconfigured lots will have an existing dwelling
unit or buildable area(s) or future buildable area(s);
         (e)   No public easements need to be vacated or relocated because of
the reconfiguration;
         (f)   A parcel which is conforming prior to the reconfiguration shall
not be allowed to become nonconforming through the reconfiguration;
         (g)   A parcel which is nonconforming prior to the reconfiguration
shall have its nonconforming characteristics reduced or eliminated through the
reconfiguration;
         (h)   If the existing public road and the existing drainage and
utility areas adjacent to the road have not been previously dedicated to the
public, the landowners shall be required to give an easement deed for those
areas; and
         (i)   The applicant(s) pay all city fees and out-of-pocket expenses
associated with the lot reconfiguration.
      (2)   Every parcel of land is legally unique. There may be circumstances
which are not fully contemplated by this section. For example, it may be
necessary for the landowner to provide a wetlands delineation to verify that
the reconfiguration will not adversely affect a wetland. Provided that a
finding can be made that it is within the spirit and intent of this section to
do so, the City Council may add to or modify the conditions and restrictions
recited above.
   (B)   County approval, lot combination agreement, title review. Upon
approval of the lot reconfiguration, each of the reconfigured lots must be
approved by the Chisago County auditor for a single parcel and property tax
identification number. At the county’s request or the city’s discretion a lot
combination agreement may be required for recording, which permanently combines
multiple parcels intended to represent single parcels. At the city’s discretion
the applicant(s) may be required to furnish evidence of title or property
control to the city attorney for review and report.
   (C)   Subdivision regulations exemptions. Provided the conditions of this
section are met, public hearings, park land dedications, subdivision
development contracts, and financial guarantees that are normally associated
with the subdivision of land may be waived by the City Council.
(Ord. 2005-03, passed 6-27-2005)
ASSURANCE FOR COMPLETION AND MAINTENANCE OF IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.065 IMPROVEMENTS AND DEVELOPER’S AGREEMENT.
   (A)   Complete improvements prior to final plat approval. Before the final
plat is signed by the Mayor and City Clerk, all applicants shall be required to
complete, in accordance with the City Council’s decision and to the
satisfaction of the city engineer, all the street, sanitary sewer, water, and
other public improvements, including lot improvements on the individual lots of
the subdivision, as required in these regulations, specified in the final plat
review and as approved by the City Council, and to dedicate those public
improvements to the city, free and clear of all liens and encumbrances on the
dedicated property and public improvements.
   (B)   Complete improvements after final plat approval.
      (1)   Developer’s agreement. The City Council in its sole discretion may
waive the requirement that the applicant complete and dedicate all public
improvements prior to approval of the final plat and, as an alternative, permit
the applicant to enter into a developer’s agreement by which the subdivider
guarantees to complete all required public improvements no later than two years
following the date on which the Mayor and City Clerk sign the final plat. In
those cases where a developer’s agreement has been executed and security has
been posted and required public improvements have not been installed within the
terms of the agreement, the city may then:
         (a)   Declare the agreement to be in default and require that all the
improvements be installed regardless of the extent of the building development
at the time the agreement is declared to be in default;
         (b)   Suspend final plat approval until the improvements are completed
and record a document to that effect for the purpose of public notice;
         (c)   Obtain funds under the security and complete improvements itself
or through a third party;
         (d)   Assign its right to receive funds under the security to any
third party, including a subsequent owner of the subdivision for which
improvements were not constructed, in whole or in part, in exchange for that
subsequent owner’s promise to complete improvements in the subdivision; and
         (e)   Exercise any other rights available under the law.
      (2)   Financial guarantees. Whenever the City Council permits an
applicant to enter into a developer’s agreement, it shall require the applicant
to provide a financial guarantee such as a letter of credit or cash escrow as
security for the promises contained in the developer’s agreement. The security
shall be in an amount equal to 125% of the estimated cost of completion of the
required public improvements, including lot improvements. The issuer of the
letter of creditor the escrow agent, as applicable, shall be acceptable to the
City Council.
         (a)   Letter of credit. If the applicant posts a letter of credit as
security for its promises contained in the developer’s agreement, the credit
shall:
            1.   Be irrevocable;
            2.   Be for a term sufficient to cover the completion, maintenance
and warranty periods in this section or the developer’s agreement; and
            3.   Require only that the city present the credit with a sight
draft and an affidavit signed by the City Clerk attesting to the municipality’s
right to draw funds under the credit.
         (b)   Cash escrow. If the applicant posts a cash escrow as security
for its promises contained in the developer’s agreement, the escrow
instructions shall provide:
            1.   The subdivider will have no right to a return of any of the
funds except as provided in this section or the developer’s agreement; and
            2.   The escrow agent shall have a legal duty to deliver the funds
to the municipality whenever the City Clerk presents an affidavit to the agent
attesting to the municipality’s right to receive funds whether or not the
subdivider protests that right. If and when the municipality accepts the offer
of dedication for the last completed required public improvement, the
municipality shall execute a waiver of its right to receive all but 25% of the
funds represented by the letter of credit or cash escrow if the subdivider is
not in breach of the developer’s agreement The residual funds shall be security
for the subdivider’s covenant to maintain the required public improvements and
its warranty that the improvements are free from defect.
      (3)   Maintenance. The applicant shall agree to maintain all public
improvements in the subdivision for a period of one year following the
acceptance by the City Council of that completed public improvement except for
snow removal.
      (4)   Snow removal and emergency repairs. The developer shall be required
to provide for snow removal on all streets and sidewalks in the subdivision
until all of the streets and sidewalks in the subdivision are accepted by the
City Council. The city, after 24-hours notice with no action by the developer,
may plow the streets or effect emergency repairs and charge those costs to the
developer.
      (5)   Warranty. The applicant shall also warrant that all required public
improvements will be free from defect for a period of two years following the
acceptance by the city of the last completed public improvement. The
developer’s agreement shall contain other terms and conditions agreed to by the
applicant and the City Council.
      (6)   Issuance of building permits. No building permits shall be issued
for the final 10% of lots in a subdivision, or if 10% is less than two, for the
final two lots of a subdivision, until all public improvements required by the
City Council for the subdivision have been fully completed and the city has
accepted the improvements.
      (7)   Issuance of certificate of occupancy. When a developer’s agreement
and security have been required for a subdivision, no certificate of occupancy
for any building in the subdivision shall be issued prior to the completion of
the required public improvements and the acceptance of those improvements by
the city, as required in the City Council’s approval of the final plat, except
as provided in the developer’s agreement.
      (8)   Adequate access. The city engineer shall determine the extent of
street improvements necessary for adequate vehicular access by the prospective
occupant(s) and by police and fire equipment prior to the issuance of building
permits and certificates of occupancy.
      (9)   Seasonal impacts. Whenever, by reason of the season of the year,
any lot improvements required by the subdivision regulations cannot be
performed, the building official may issue a certificate of occupancy, provided
there is no danger to health, safety, or general welfare upon accepting a cash
escrow deposit in an amount to be determined by the city engineer for the cost
of the lot improvements The developer’s agreement and security covering the lot
improvements shall remain in full force and effect.
         (a)   Procedures on escrow fund. All required improvements for which
escrow monies have been accepted by the building official at the time of
issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall be installed by the subdivider
within a period of nine months from the date of deposit and issuance of the
certificate of occupancy.
         (b)   Failure to complete improvements. If the improvements have not
been properly installed at the end of the time period, the building official
shall give two-weeks’ written notice to the developer requiring it to install
the improvements, and if they are not then installed properly, the building
official may request the City Council to proceed to contract out the work for
the installation of the necessary improvements in a sum not to exceed the
amount of the escrow deposit. At the time of the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy for which escrow monies are being deposited with the building
official, the developer shall obtain and file with the building official prior
to obtaining the certificate of occupancy a notarized statement from the
purchaser or purchasers of the premises authorizing the building official to
install the improvements at the end of the nine-month period if the
improvements have not been duly installed by the subdivider.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.066 INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   General procedure and fees.
      (1)   Procedure. The City Council shall provide for inspection of
required improvements during construction and ensure their satisfactory
completion. If the city engineer finds upon inspection that any one or more of
the required improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the
municipality’s construction standards and specifications, the applicant shall
be responsible for properly completing the improvements.
      (2)   Fees. The applicant shall pay to the municipality an inspection fee
based on the estimated cost of inspection, and where the improvements are
completed prior to final plat approval. The subdivision plat shall not be
signed by city officials unless the inspection fee has been paid at the time of
application. These fees shall be due and payable upon demand of the
municipality and no building permits or certificates of occupancy shall be
issued until all fees are paid.
   (B)   Release or reduction of security.
      (1)   Certificate of satisfactory completion. The city will not accept
any required improvements, nor release nor reduce the amount of any security
posted by the subdivider until the city engineer has submitted a certificate
stating that all required improvements have been satisfactorily completed and
until:
         (a)   The applicant’s engineer or surveyor has certified to the city
engineer, through submission of a detailed “as-built” plans of the developer’s,
indicating location, dimensions, materials, and other information required by
the city engineer, that the layout of the line and grade of all public
improvements is in accordance with construction plans for the subdivision; and
         (b)   Documentation has been furnished to and approved by the zoning
administrator indicating that the improvements have been completed, are ready
for dedication to the city, and are free and clear of any and all liens and
encumbrances. Upon approval and recommendation by the zoning administrator and
the city engineer, the City Council shall thereafter accept the improvements
for dedication in accordance with the established procedure.
      (2)   Reduction of escrowed funds and security. If the security posted by
the subdivider was a cash escrow, the amount of that escrow shall be reduced
upon actual acceptance of the dedication of public improvements and then only
to the ratio that the cost of the public improvement for which dedication was
accepted bears to the total cost of public improvements for the subdivision. In
no event shall a cash escrow be reduced below 25% of the principal amount.
Funds held in the escrow account shall not be released to the subdivider, in
whole or in part, except upon express written instructions of the city
engineer. At the end of the maintenance and warranty periods, all escrowed
funds, if any, shall be released to the subdivider
      (3)   Reduction of letter of credit. If the security provided by the
subdivider was a letter of credit, the city attorney shall execute waivers of
the municipality’s right to draw funds under the credit upon actual acceptance
of the dedication of public improvements and then only to the ratio that the
cost of the public improvement for which dedication was accepted bears to the
total cost of public improvements for the subdivision. In no event shall
waivers be executed that would reduce the security below 25% of its original
amount.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.067 ACCEPTANCE OF LAND DEDICATIONS AND PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Land dedications. The recording of the final subdivision shall
constitute the acceptance by the city of the land dedications made in the
subdivision. Acceptance of formal offers of land dedication of streets, public
areas, easements, and parks other than by subdivision platting shall be by
ordinance of the city.
   (B)   Public improvements. The approval or recording of a subdivision plat
by the city, whether sketch, preliminary or final, shall not be deemed to
constitute or imply the acceptance by the city of any improvements such as
sheets, easements, or parks shown on plat. The City Council may require the
plat to be endorsed with appropriate notes to this effect.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
§ 153.068 DEFERRAL OR WAIVER OF REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council may defer or waive at the time of final plat
approval, subject to appropriate conditions, the provision of any or all public
improvements as, in its judgment, are not requisite in the interests of the
public health, safety, and general welfare, or which are inappropriate because
of the inadequacy or nonexistence of connecting facilities. Any determination
to defer or waive the provision of any public improvement must be made on the
record and the reasons for the deferral or waiver also shall be expressly made
on the record.
   (B)   Whenever it is deemed necessary by the City Council to defer the
construction of any improvement required under these regulations because of
incompatible grades, future planning, inadequate or nonexistent connecting
facilities, or for other reasons the subdivider shall pay their share of the
costs of the future improvements to the city prior to signing of the final
subdivision plat by the Mayor and City Clerk. The city may require the
developer to execute a separate developer’s agreement guaranteeing completion
of the deferred improvements upon demand of the city.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
REQUIREMENTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS, RESERVATIONS AND DESIGN
§ 153.080 GENERAL DESIGN PHILOSOPHY.
   (A)   General. The following land subdivision principals, standards and
requirements will be applied by the city in evaluating plans for proposed
subdivisions.
      (1)   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the city’s comprehensive
plan.
      (2)   Land shall be suited to the purpose for which it is to be
subdivided. No preliminary plat shall be approved if the site is not suitable
for purposes of the kind proposed by reason of potential flooding, topography,
or adverse earth or rock formation.
      (3)   Land subject to hazards to life, health or property shall not be
subdivided for residential purposes until all hazards have been eliminated or
unless adequate safeguards against hazards are provided by the subdivision
plan.
      (4)   Proposed subdivisions shall be coordinated with existing nearby
municipalities or neighborhoods so that the community as a whole may develop
harmoniously.
      (5)   In the subdividing of any land, regard shall be shown for all
natural features, such as tree growth, watercourses, historic spots, or similar
conditions, which if preserved will add attractiveness and stability to the
proposed development.
   (B)   Character of the land.
      (1)   Land that the city finds to be unsuitable for subdivision or
development due to flooding, improper drainage, steep slopes, rock formations,
adverse earth formations or topography, utility easements, or other features
that will reasonably be harmful to the safety, health, and general welfare of
the present or future inhabitants of the subdivision and/or its surrounding
areas, shall not be subdivided or developed unless adequate methods are
formulated by the developer and approved by the City Council, upon
recommendation of the city engineer, to solve the problems created by the
unsuitable land conditions. The land shall be set aside for uses as shall not
involve any danger to public health, safety, and welfare.
      (2)   The following areas are unsuitable for land development:
         (a)   Flood plain areas. No land shall be subdivided in designated
flood plain areas or areas that may be subject to flooding unless the proposed
subdivision complies with the city’s flood plain regulations or standards of
the Federal Emergency Management Authority (FEMA).
         (b)   Areas of high ground water or groundwater recharge. Soils that
are characterized by high ground water tables are generally unsuitable for
residential development. Soils with known ground water tables or mottled soils
within one foot of the surface are unsuitable for residential development. Lots
within a plat may contain areas of these soil types. However, each lot shall
contain at least 20,000 square feet and adequate driveway area of suitable
soils to facilitate building site development.
      (3)   Wetlands. Land as delineated and classified under provided in the
Wetland Conservation Act of 1991, being M.S. Chapter 103F, shall not be
developed unless the proper sequencing process has occurred.
   (C)   Agriculturally important lands.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consider the values of agriculturally
important lands when making its recommendation on a plat. The land capability
classification system of the Natural Resources Conservation Service shall be
used as a guide to determine agriculturally important land.
      (2)   In making its recommendation, the Planning Commission may take into
consideration, but not be limited to, the following criteria or designated
areas:
         (a)   Farmability of parcel. The size, shape, slope, soil quality,
topographic limits and vegetative cover should be considered. Generally,
parcels that are small oddly shaped, steeply sloping and with poor soils and
wooded could be considered for subdivision approval.
         (b)   Proximity to established non-farm population. The plat may be
favorably considered if the parcel is located next to, or within, an urbanizing
area, or if the parcel is surrounded by conforming non-farm uses.
         (c)   Compatibility with surrounding uses. The plat should not be
favorably considered if the proposed subdivision plat is surrounded by
conforming agricultural uses.
         (d)   Distance from agricultural operations. Plats should not be
approved when located too near an existing animal or commercial feedlot as
defined under the city’s zoning regulations.
         (e)   Shoreland areas. Plats in shoreland areas, may be favorably
considered.
         (f)   Manmade or physical barriers. Plats may be favorably considered
in areas where manmade or physical features act as barriers to an agricultural
use.
   (D)   Conformance to applicable rules and regulations. In addition to the
requirements established in these regulations, all subdivision plats shall
comply with the following laws, rules, and regulations:
      (1)   The city’s zoning regulations, building codes, engineering
standards and all other applicable laws of the appropriate jurisdictions;
      (2)   Any adopted official maps, public utilities plans, and the capital
improvements program of the city;
      (3)   All applicable statutory provisions; and
      (4)   The requirements and rules of the Minnesota Health Department,
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources, the Minnesota Department of
Transportation, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency or other applicable
state or federal agencies.
   (E)   Adequate public facilities. No preliminary plat shall be approved
unless the City Council determines that public facilities will be adequate to
support and service the area of the proposed subdivision. The applicant shall,
at the request of the city, submit sufficient information and data on the
proposed subdivision to demonstrate the expected impact on and use of public
facilities by possible uses of the subdivision. Periodically, the city may
establish additional guidelines for the determination of the adequacy of public
facilities and services. Public facilities and services to be examined for
adequacy will include streets and public transportation facilities, sanitary
sewer, stormwater, and water service as follows:
      (1)   Comprehensive plan consistency required. Proposed public
improvements shall conform to and be properly related to the city’s
comprehensive plan and all applicable capital improvements programs.
      (2)   Wastewater. All habitable buildings and buildable lots shall be
served by an approved means of wastewater collection and treatment.
      (3)   Water. All habitable buildings and buildable lots shall be
connected to a public water system capable of providing water for health and
emergency purposes, including adequate fire protection, or an approved private
water system.
      (4)   Stormwater management. Drainage improvements shall accommodate
potential runoff from the entire upstream drainage area and shall be designed
to prevent increases in downstream flooding. The city may require the use of
control methods such as retention or detention, and/or the construction of
offsite drainage improvements to mitigate the impacts of the proposed
developments.
      (5)   Streets. Proposed streets shall provide a safe, convenient, and
functional system for vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle circulation; shall be
properly related to the comprehensive plan; and shall be appropriate for the
particular traffic characteristics of each proposed development.
      (6)   Extension policies. All public improvements and required easements
shall be extended through the parcel on which new development is proposed.
Streets, water lines, wastewater systems, drainage facilities, electric and
other utility lines, and telecommunications lines shall be constructed through
new development to promote the logical extension of public infrastructure. The
city may require the applicant of a subdivision to extend offsite improvements
to reach the subdivision or oversize required public facilities to serve
anticipated future development as a condition of plat approval.
   (F)   Self-imposed restrictions. If the owner places restrictions on any of
the land contained in the subdivision greater than those required by the zoning
regulations or these regulations, the restrictions or reference to those
restrictions may be required to be indicated on the subdivision plat, or the
City Council may require that restrictive covenants be recorded with the
Chisago County recorder’s office in a form to be approved by the city attorney.
When allowed by law, the subdivider shall grant to the city the right to
enforce restrictive covenants.
   (G)   Plats straddling municipal boundaries. Whenever access to the
subdivision is required across land in another municipality, the City Council
or the Planning Commission may request assurance from the developer that the
access road is adequately improved, or that a guarantee has been duly executed
and is sufficient in amount to assure the construction of the access road. In
general, lot lines should be laid out so as not to cross municipal boundary
lines.
   (H)   Subdivision name. The proposed name of the subdivision shall not
duplicate, or too closely approximate phonetically, the name of any other
subdivision in the city. The City Council shall have final authority to
designate the name of the subdivision, which shall be determined at sketch plat
approval.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.081 BLOCKS AND LOTS.
   (A)   Blocks.
      (1)   Block length and width or acreage within bounding streets shall be
laid out to accommodate the size of the lots required by the zoning regulations
and to provide convenient access, circulation and safety of street traffic.
      (2)   Blocks shall meet the following standards.
         (a)   Blocks shall be wide enough to allow two tiers of lots with a
minimum depth as required by the city’s zoning regulations, except lots
adjoining a lake, stream, railroad or thoroughfare, or where one tier of lots
is necessary because of topographic conditions.
         (b)   In residential areas, other than water frontage, blocks shall
not be less than 300 feet nor more than 1,320 feet in length measured along the
greatest dimension of the enclosed block area. Wherever practicable, blocks
along major arterials and major collector streets shall be not less than 1,000
feet in length.
         (c)   Blocks for commercial and industrial areas may vary from the
elements of design contained in this section if the nature of the use requires
other treatment. In these cases, off-street parking for employees and customers
shall be provided along with safe and convenient limited access to the street
system. Space for off-street loading shall also be provided with similar
access. Extension of roads, railroad access right-of-way and utilities shall be
provided as necessary.
         (d)   In long blocks, the Planning Commission may require the
reservation of an easement through the block to accommodate utilities, drainage
facilities, or pedestrian traffic.
         (e)   Pedestrian ways or crosswalks not less than ten feet wide, may
be required by the city through the center of blocks more than 800 feet long
where deemed essential to provide circulation or access to schools,
playgrounds, commercial areas, transportation, or other community facilities.
Blocks designed for industrial uses shall be of the length and width as may be
determined suitable by the Planning Commission for prospective use.
   (B)   Lot arrangement. The lot arrangement shall be so that there will be no
foreseeable difficulties, for reasons of topography or other conditions, in
securing building permits to build on all lots in compliance with the zoning
regulations and in providing driveway access to buildings on the lots from an
approved street.
   (C)   Lot dimensions. Lot dimensions shall comply with the minimum standards
of the zoning regulations. Where lots are more than double the minimum required
area for the zoning district, the city may require that those lots be arranged
so as to allow further subdivision and the opening of future streets where they
would be necessary to serve potential lots, all in compliance with the zoning
regulations and these regulations.
      (1)   Corner lots. Dimensions of corner lots shall be large enough to
allow for erection of buildings, observing the minimum front yard setback from
both streets. Residential corner lots in the core area of the city shall be
platted at least 15 feet wider than interior lots.
      (2)   Water resource lots. Lots with lakeshore frontage shall be designed
so that the lot lines extended shall maintain the closest approximation to
riparian right. Lots abutting upon a watercourse, drainage way, channel or
stream shall have an additional depth or width, as required to assure building
sites that are not subject to flooding.
      (3)   Commercial and industrial lots. The depth and width of properties
reserved or laid out for business, commercial, or industrial purposes shall be
adequate to provide for the off-street parking and loading facilities required
for the type of use and development contemplated, as established in the zoning
regulations.
   (D)   Lot orientation.
      (1)   Each lot shall front upon a public road.
      (2)   The lot line common to the street right-of-way shall be the front
line. All lots shall face the front line and a similar line across the street.
Wherever feasible, lots shall be arranged so that the rear line does not abut
the side property line of an adjacent lot.
      (3)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles or straight road lines or
radial to curved road lines or radial to lake or stream shores unless
topographic conditions necessitate a different arrangement.
   (E)   Lot remnants. No remnants of lots below minimum size shall be left
over after subdividing of a larger tract. Remnant areas must be added to
adjacent lots rather than be allowed to remain as unusable parcels.
   (F)   Double frontage lots and access to lots.
      (1)   Double frontage lots. Double frontage and reversed frontage lots
shall be avoided except where necessary to provide separation of residential
development from arterial streets or to overcome specific disadvantages of
topography and orientation.
      (2)   Access from major streets.
         (a)   The city shall discourage access from arterial or collector
streets to residential lots.
         (b)   Where driveway access from a major street maybe necessary for
several adjoining lots, the city may require that the lots be served by a
combined access drive in order to limit possible traffic hazards on the street.
         (c)   Where possible, driveways should be designed and arranged so as
to avoid requiring vehicles to back into traffic on major streets.
   (G)   Lot grading and erosion control.
      (1)   Lot drainage. Lots shall be laid out so as to provide positive
drainage away from all buildings, and individual lot drainage shall be
coordinated with the general storm drainage pattern for the area. Drainage
shall be designed so as to avoid concentration of storm drainage water from
each lot to adjacent lots.
      (2)   Soil preservation and final grading. No certificate of occupancy
shall be issued until final grading has been completed in accordance with the
approved construction plans. Topsoil shall not be removed from residential lots
or used as spoil, but shall be redistributed so as to provide at least six
inches of cover on the lots and at least four inches of cover between the
sidewalks and curbs. All areas with disturbed soils shall be stabilized by
seeding or sod planting as recommended in the Minnesota Construction Site
Erosion Control and Sedimentation Control Planning Handbook prepared the
Minnesota Board of Water and Soil Resources and Protecting Water Quality in
Urban Areas prepared by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency or as approved
by the city engineer.
   (H)   Debris and waste. No cut trees, timber, debris, earth, rocks, stones,
soil, junk, rubbish, or other waste materials of any kind shall be buried in
any land, or left or deposited on any lot or street in the subdivision. All
debris and waste shall be removed and properly disposed prior to issuance of
any certificate of occupancy in the subdivision. No debris or waste shall be
left or deposited in any area of the subdivision at the time of expiration of
any subdivision improvement agreement or dedication of public improvements.
   (I)   Water bodies and watercourses. No area of a lot required by the zoning
regulations may be satisfied by land that is below the ordinary high water mark
of protected waters as established by the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources Where a watercourse separates the buildable area of a lot from the
street by which it has access, provisions shall be made for installation of a
culvert or other structure, of design approved by the city engineer.
   (J)   Subdivision improvement agreement and security to include lot
improvement. The applicant shall enter into a separate subdivision improvement
agreement to guarantee completion of all lot improvement requirements
including, but not limited to, soil preservation, final grading, lot drainage,
lawn-grass seeding, removal of debris and waste, fencing, and all other lot
improvements required by the city. Whether or not a certificate of occupancy
has been issued, the city may enforce the provisions of the subdivision
improvement agreement where the provisions of this section or any other
applicable law, ordinance, or regulation have not been met.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.082 MONUMENTS.
   Monuments shall be placed in locations on the boundary of the subdivision
and within it as required by M.S. Chapter 505, as it may be amended from time
to time. Steel monuments shall be placed at all lot corners, block corners,
angle points, points of curves in streets and at intermediate points as shown
on the final plat. All federal, state, county or other official benchmarks,
monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be
preserved in precise position. Benchmark monuments shall be installed in
locations approved by the city engineer.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.083 HIGHWAYS, STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Classification. All streets shall be classified by the city as
either a primary arterial, major collector, minor collector, or local street.
In classifying streets, the city will refer to the policies established in the
comprehensive plan including consideration for projected traffic demands in 20
years of development.
      (2)   Frontage and access to improved streets. No subdivision shall be
approved unless the area to be subdivided has frontage on and access from an
existing improved street, state, county, or township highway.
      (3)   Arrangement and topography.
         (a)   All streets shall be properly integrated with the existing and
proposed system of thoroughfares and dedicated rights-of-way as established in
the comprehensive plan and/or on an official map.
         (b)   All major streets shall be properly related to special traffic
generators such as industries, business districts, schools, and other large
trip generating sites.
         (c)   Streets shall be logically related to the topography so as to
produce usable lots and reasonable grades. All streets shall be arranged so as
to obtain as many building sites as possible at, or above, the grades of the
streets. Grades of streets shall conform as closely as possible to the original
topography. A combination of steep grades and curves shall be avoided.
         (d)   Local streets shall be laid out to conform as much as possible
to the topography to discourage use by through traffic, to permit efficient
drainage and utility systems, and to require the minimum number of streets
necessary to provide convenient and safe access to property.
         (e)   Proposed streets shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to be subdivided, unless prevented by topography or other physical
conditions, or unless the extension is not necessary or desirable for the
coordination of the layout of the subdivision with the existing layout or the
most advantageous future development of adjacent parcels.
         (f)   In business and industrial developments, streets shall be
planned in connection with the grouping of buildings, location of rail
facilities, and the provision of alleys, truck loading and maneuvering areas,
and walks and parking areas so as to minimize conflict of movement between the
various types of traffic, including pedestrian.
         (g)   Reserve strips and partial streets. The creation of reserve
strips shall not be permitted adjacent to a proposed street in a manner as to
deny access from adjacent property to the street. Half or partial roads will
not be permitted, except where essential to reasonable subdivision of a tract
in conformance with the other requirements and standards of these regulations
and where, in addition, satisfactory assurance for dedication of the remaining
part of the road can be secured.
      (4)   Access spacing guidelines. Access of streets proposed in a
subdivision shall comply with the access spacing guidelines established in §
153.040(B). Where a subdivision borders on or contains an existing or proposed
primary arterial or major collector street, the city may require that access to
streets be limited by one of the following means:
         (a)   The subdivision of lots so as to back onto the major streets and
front onto a parallel local street; no access shall be provided to individual
lots from the major streets, and screening shall be provided in a strip of land
along the rear property line of the lots;
         (b)   A series of cul-de-sacs, U-shaped streets, or short loops
entered from and designed generally at right angles to a parallel street, with
the rear lines of their terminal lots backing onto the major street provided
that the traffic movement patterns are approved by the city engineer; or
         (c)   A marginal access or service road (separated from the major
street by a planning or grass strip and having access at suitable points).
      (5)   Railroads and limited access highways. Railroad rights-of-way and
limited access highways where so located as to affect the subdivision of
adjoining lands shall be treated as follows.
         (a)   In residential districts a buffer strip at least 25 feet in
depth in addition to the normal depth of the lot required in the district shall
be provided adjacent to the railroad right-of-way or limited access highway.
This strip shall be part of the platted lots and shall be designated on the
plat: “This strip is reserved for screening. The placement of habitable
structures on this land is prohibited.”
         (b)   In districts zoned for business, commercial, or industrial uses
the nearest street extending parallel or approximately parallel to the railroad
right-of-way shall, wherever practicable, be at a sufficient distance from the
railroad right-of-way to ensure suitable depth for commercial or industrial
sites.
         (c)   When streets parallel to the railroad right-of-way intersect a
street that crosses the railroad right-of-way at grade, they shall, to the
extent practicable, be at a distance of at least 150 feet from the railroad
right-of-way. The distance shall be determined with due consideration of the
minimum distance required for future separation of grades by means of
appropriate approach gradients.
      (6)   Construction of streets and dead-end streets.
         (a)   Construction of streets. The arrangement of streets shall
provide for the continuation of streets between adjacent properties when the
continuation is necessary for convenient movement of traffic, effective fire
protection, for efficient provision of utilities, and where the continuation is
in accordance with the comprehensive plan. Dead-end roads shall be prohibited,
except as stubs to permit future road extension into adjoining tracts, or when
designed as cul-de-sac roads.
         (b)   Temporary dead end streets. If the adjacent property is
undeveloped and the street must temporarily be a dead-end street, the right-of-
way shall be extended to the property line. A temporary turnabout shall be
provided on all temporary dead-end streets, with the notation on the
subdivision plat that land outside the normal street right-of-way shall revert
to abutters whenever the street is continued. The city may limit the length of
temporary dead-end streets in accordance with the design standards of these
regulations.
         (c)   Permanent dead end streets (cul-de-sacs). Cul-de-sac streets
shall not exceed 300 feet in length in the core area and 800 feet in the rural
area as defined in the comprehensive plan. Where a street does not extend
beyond the boundary of the subdivision and its continuation is not required by
the city for access to adjoining property, its terminus shall normally not be
nearer to the boundary than 50 feet. However, the city may require the
reservation of an appropriate easement to accommodate drainage facilities,
pedestrian traffic, or utilities. A cul-de-sac turnaround shall be provided at
the end of a permanent dead-end street in accordance with city’s construction
standards and specifications. For greater convenience to traffic and more
effective police and fire protection, permanent dead-end streets shall, in
general, be limited in length in accordance with the design standards of these
regulations.
      (7)   Bridges. Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant, as determined
by the city, shall be constructed at the full expense of the applicant without
reimbursement from the city. The sharing expense for the construction of
bridges not of primary benefit to the applicant as determined by the city, will
be fixed by special agreement between the City Council and the applicant. The
cost of bridges that do not solely benefit the developer shall be charged to
the developer pro rata based on the percentage obtained by dividing the service
area of the bridge into the area of the land being developed by the subdivider.
      (8)   Street names. The preliminary plat shall indicate names for
proposed streets. The city shall approve the name for all streets upon
recommendation of the zoning administrator at the time of preliminary plat
approval. The zoning administrator shall consult the local postmaster and the
county addressing coordinator prior to rendering its recommendation to the
Planning Commission. Names shall be sufficiently different in sound and
spelling from other road names in the municipality so as not to cause
confusion. A street that is or is planned as a continuation of an existing road
shall bear the same name.
   (B)   Design standards.
      (1)   General. In order to provide for streets of suitable location,
width, and improvement to accommodate prospective traffic and afford
satisfactory access to police, firefighting, snow removal, sanitation, and
road-maintenance equipment, and to coordinate streets so as to compose a
convenient system and avoid undue hardships to adjoining properties, the
following design standards for streets are hereby required.
      (2)   Rights-of-way widths. The minimum widths for each type of public
street right-of-way shall be as follows.
Table 2
Rights-of-Way Width Standards
Type of Street Rights-of-Way Width
Table 2
Rights-of-Way Width Standards
Type of Street   Rights-of-Way Width
Primary Arterial 100 + feet
Major Collector  80 - 100 feet
Minor Collector  66 - 80 feet
Local            60 feet
Cul-de-sacs      60 feet
 
      (3)   Additional rights-of-way. Additional right-of-way and roadway
widths may be required to promote public safety and convenience when special
conditions require it or to provide parking space in areas of intensive use.
Right-of-way widths in excess of the standards designated in these regulations
shall be required whenever, due to topography, additional width is necessary to
provide adequate earth slopes. The slopes shall not be in excess of three to
one.
      (4)   Grades. Centerline gradients shall not exceed the following.
Table 3
Street Grades
Type of Street Gradient (in percent)
Table 3
Street Grades
Type of Street   Gradient (in percent)
Primary Arterial five
Major Collector  five
Minor Collector  five
Local            eight
Cul-de-sacs      eight
 
      (5)   Vertical curves. Different connecting street gradients shall be
connected with vertical curves. Minimum length, in feet, of these curves shall
be 20 times the algebraic difference in the percent of grade of the two
adjacent slopes.
      (6)   Deflections. When connecting street lines deflect from each other
at any one point by more than ten degrees, they shall be connected by a curve
with a radius of not less than 100 feet.
      (7)   Cross section. The cross-slopes on all streets, including
intersections, shall be 3% or less.
      (8)   Intersections.
         (a)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible at right angles. A proposed intersection of two new streets at an
angle of less than 60 degrees shall not be acceptable. An oblique street should
be curved approaching an intersection and should be approximately at right
angles for at least 100 feet therefrom.
         (b)   Not more than two streets shall intersect at any one point
unless specifically approved by the city.
         (c)   Proposed new intersections along one side of an existing street
shall, wherever practicable, coincide with any existing intersections on the
opposite side of the street.
         (d)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150 feet shall
not be permitted, except where the intersected street has separated dual drives
without median breaks at either intersection.
         (e)   Where streets intersect major streets, their alignment shall be
continuous.
         (f)   Intersection of major streets shall be at least 800 feet apart.
         (g)   Minimum curb radius at the intersection of two local streets
shall be at least 20 feet; and minimum curb radius at an intersection involving
a collector street shall be at least 25 feet. Alley intersections and abrupt
changes in alignment within a block shall have the corners cut off in
accordance with standard engineering practice to permit safe vehicular
movement.
         (h)   Intersections shall be designed with a flat grade wherever
practical. In hilly or rolling areas, at the approach to an intersection, a
leveling area shall be provided having not greater than a 2% rate at a distance
of 60 feet, measured from the nearest right-of-way line of the intersecting
street.
         (i)   Where any street intersection will involve earth banks or
existing vegetation inside any lot corner that would create a traffic hazard by
limiting visibility, the developer shall cut the ground and/or vegetation
(including trees) in connection with the grading of the public right-of-way to
the extent deemed necessary to provide an adequate sight distance.
      (9)   Grading and improvements. Streets shall be graded and improved and
conform to the city construction standards and specifications and shall be
approved as to design and specifications by the city engineer, in accordance
with the construction plans required to be submitted prior to final plat
approval.
      (10)   Curb and gutter. Curb and gutter shall be included as a part of
the required street surface improvement and shall be designed for installation
along both sides of all streets in the core area. Curb and gutter may be
required for streets in the rural area as determined by the city engineer.
      (11)   Street surfacing and improvements. After sewer and water utilities
have been installed by the developer, the developer shall construct curbs and
gutters and shall surface to the widths prescribed in these regulations. Types
of pavement shall be as determined by the city engineer. Adequate provision
shall be made for culverts, drains, and bridges. All street pavement,
shoulders, drainage improvements and structures, curbs, turnarounds, and
sidewalks shall conform to all construction standards and specifications
adopted by the city and shall be incorporated into the construction plans
required to be submitted by the developer for plat approval.
   (C)   Street dedications and reservations.
      (1)   New perimeter streets. Street systems in new subdivisions shall be
laid out so as to eliminate or avoid new perimeter half-streets. Where an
existing half-street is adjacent to a new subdivision, the other half of the
street shall be improved and dedicated by the subdivider. The city may
authorize a new perimeter street where the subdivider improves and dedicates
the entire required street right-of-way width within its own subdivision
boundaries.
      (2)   Widening and realignment of existing nonconforming street. Where a
subdivision borders an existing nonconforming street or when the comprehensive
plan, or official map, or zoning setback regulations indicate plans for
realignment or widening a road that would require use of some of the land in
the subdivision, the applicant shall be required to improve and dedicate at its
expense those areas for widening or realignment of those roads. Frontage roads
and streets as described above shall be improved and dedicated by the applicant
at its own expense to the full width as required by these subdivision
regulations when the applicant’s development activities contribute to the need
for the road expansion. Land reserved for any street purposes may not be
counted in satisfying yard or area requirements of the zoning regulations
whether the land is to be dedicated to the municipality in fee simple or an
easement is granted to the city.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.084 GRADING, DRAINAGE AND STORMWATER FACILITIES.
   (A)   General requirements. The Planning Commission shall not recommend for
approval any plat of subdivision that does not make adequate provision for
storm and flood water runoff channels or basins.
   (B)   Technical reference documents. The city officially designates the
Minnesota Construction Site Erosion Control and Sedimentation Control Planning
Handbook prepared the Minnesota Board of Water and Soil Resources and
Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas prepared by the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency as the technical references for this section. These reference
documents will be used to ensure the proper design, construction and
maintenance of the stormwater management facilities of a proposed project.
   (C)   System design. The stormwater drainage system shall be separate and
independent of any sanitary sewer system. Storm sewers, where required, shall
be designed by the rational method, or other methods as approved by the city
engineer, and a copy of design computations shall be submitted along with
plans. Inlets shall be provided so that surface water is not carried across or
around any intersection, nor for a distance of more than 600 feet in the
gutter. When calculations indicate that curb capacities are exceeded at a
point, no further allowance shall be made for flow beyond that point, and
basins shall be used to intercept flow at that point. Surface water drainage
patterns shall be shown for each and every lot and block.
   (D)   Nature of stormwater facilities
      (1)   Location. The applicant may be required by the Planning Commission
to carry away by pipe or open ditch any spring or surface water that may exist
either previously to, or as a result of the subdivision. The drainage
facilities shall be located in the right-of-way, or in perpetual unobstructed
easements of appropriate width, and shall be constructed in accordance with the
construction standards and specifications. Where stormwater from adjacent areas
naturally passes through a subdivision, adequate provision shall be included in
the subdivision for facilities to safely route the stormwater through the
subdivision to its natural outlet, to maintain, or replace the natural water
course.
      (2)    Accessibility to public storm sewers.
         (a)   Where a public storm sewer is accessible, the applicant shall
install storm sewer facilities, or if no outlets are within a reasonable
distance, adequate provision shall be made for the disposal of storm waters,
subject to the specifications of the city engineer. However, in subdivisions
containing lots less than 20,000 square feet in area and in business and
industrial districts, underground storm sewer systems shall be constructed
throughout the subdivisions and be conducted to an approved out-fall.
Inspection of facilities shall be conducted by the city engineer.
         (b)   If a connection to a public storm sewer will be provided
eventually, as determined by the city engineer, the developer shall make
arrangements for future storm water disposal by a public utility system at the
time the plat receives final approval. Provision for the connection shall be
incorporated by inclusion in the subdivision improvement agreement required for
the subdivision plat.
      (3)   Accommodation of upstream drainage areas. A culvert or other
drainage facility shall in each case be large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from its entire upstream drainage area, whether inside or outside the
subdivision. The city engineer shall determine the necessary size of the
facility, based on the provisions of the construction standards and
specifications assuming conditions of maximum potential watershed development
permitted by the zoning regulations.
      (4)   Effect on downstream drainage areas. The city engineer shall also
study the effect of each subdivision on existing downstream drainage facilities
outside the area of the subdivision. Local government drainage studies together
with other studies as shall be appropriate, shall serve as a guide to needed
improvements. Where it is anticipated that the additional runoff incident to
the development of the subdivision will overload an existing downstream
drainage facility, the Planning Commission may withhold approval of the
subdivision until provision has been made for the expansion of the existing
downstream drainage facility. No subdivision shall be approved unless adequate
drainage will be provided to an adequate drainage watercourse or facility.
      (5)   Areas of poor drainage. Whenever a plat is submitted for an area
that is subject to flooding, the Planning Commission may approve the
subdivision provided that the applicant fills the affected area of the
subdivision to an elevation sufficient to place the elevation of streets and
lots at a minimum of 12 inches above the elevation of the 100-year flood plain,
as determined by the local government engineer. The plat of the subdivision
shall provide for an overflow zone along the bank of any stream or watercourse,
in a width that shall be sufficient in times of high water to contain or move
the water, and no fill shall be placed in the overflow zone nor shall any
structure be erected or placed in the overflow zone. The boundaries of the
overflow zone shall be subject to approval by the local government engineer.
The Planning Commission may deny subdivision approval for areas of extremely
poor drainage.
      (6)   Flood plain areas. The Planning Commission may, when it deems it
necessary for the health, safety, or welfare of the present and future
population of the area and necessary to the conservation of water, drainage,
and sanitary facilities, prohibit the subdivision of any portion of the
property that lies within the flood plain of any stream or drainage course.
These flood plain areas shall be preserved from any and all destruction or
damage resulting from clearing, grading, or dumping of earth, waste material,
or stumps, except at the discretion of the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Dedication of drainage easements.
      (1)   General requirements. When a subdivision is traversed by a water
course, drainageway, channel, or stream, there shall be provided a storm water
easement or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially to the lines of the
watercourse, and of a width and construction as will be adequate for the
purpose. Wherever possible, it is desirable that the drainage be maintained by
an open channel with landscaped banks and adequate width for maximum potential
volume of flow.
      (2)   Drainage easements.
         (a)   Where topography or other conditions are so as to make
impractical the inclusion of drainage facilities within road rights-of-way,
perpetual, unobstructed easements at least 15 feet in width for drainage
facilities shall be provided across property outside the road lines and with
satisfactory access to the road. Easements shall be indicated on the plat.
         (b)   Drainage easements shall extend from the road to a natural
watercourse or to other drainage facilities. When a proposed drainage system
will carry water across private land outside the subdivision, appropriate
drainage rights must be secured and indicated on the plat.
         (c)   The applicant shall dedicate, either in fee or by a drainage or
conservation easement, land on both sides of existing watercourses to a
distance to be determined by the Planning Commission.
         (d)   Low-lying lands along watercourses subject to flooding or
overflowing during stormy periods, whether or not included in areas for
dedication, shall be preserved and retained in their natural state as drainage
ways. The land or lands subject to periodic flooding shall not be computed in
determining the number of lots to be utilized for average density procedures
nor for computing the area requirement of any lot.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.085 SANITARY SEWER.
   (A)   General requirements. Extensions of the public sanitary sewer system
shall when available, be designed so as to provide sewer service to each lot.
The applicant shall install sanitary sewer facilities in a manner prescribed by
the city’s construction standards and specifications. All plans shall be
designed and approved in accordance with the rules, regulations, and standards
of the city, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and Department of Health, and
other appropriate agencies.
   (B)   Mandatory connection to public sewer system. If a public sanitary
sewer is accessible or is being placed in a street or alley abutting the
subdivision, the owner of the property shall be required to connect each lot to
the sewer for the purpose of disposing of waste. It shall be unlawful for any
owner or occupant to maintain upon any lot an individual sewage disposal
system.
   (C)   Multi-family residential and nonresidential uses. Sanitary sewerage
facilities for multi-family and nonresidential uses shall connect with public
sanitary sewerage systems. Sewers shall be installed to serve each lot and to
grades and sizes required by the city engineer. No individual disposal system
or treatment plants (private or group disposal systems) shall be permitted for
these uses.
   (D)   Single-family and two-family residential uses. Sanitary sewerage
systems shall be constructed as follows.
      (1)   When a public sanitary sewerage system is reasonably accessible,
the applicant shall connect and provide sewers accessible to each lot in the
subdivision.
      (2)   When public sanitary sewerage systems are not reasonably accessible
but will become available within a reasonable time, not to exceed 20 years, the
applicant may choose one of the following alternatives.
         (a)   Central sewerage system with the maintenance by homeowners
association. Where plans for future public sanitary sewerage systems exist, the
applicant may design and install a central or common sewage treatment system.
The collection system shall be designed to be in conformance with the city’s
system extension plans and design standards and be ready for connection to the
public sewer mains. The common sewage treatment system as well as the
collection system must be maintained by a homeowners association. Future costs
to connect to the public sewer system will be assessed against each property
benefitted.
         (b)   Individual sewage treatment systems (ISTS) with maintenance by
each homeowner. ISTS may be used provided the applicant installs the public
sanitary sewer collection system including all mains and laterals, through the
subdivision boundary with service locations designated for each lot, to a point
where a future connection with the public sewer main shall be made. The sewer
systems shall be capped until ready for use and shall conform to all plans and
standards for installation of the public sewer system. The applicant must
design and designate sewer service locations on each lot in order to provide
for the future installation of service lines. Lot owners will be responsible
for installing and paying for sewer service lines when the public sewer service
becomes available.
      (3)   When sanitary sewer systems are not reasonably accessible and will
not become available for a period in excess of 20 years, the applicant may
install individual disposal systems or central sewerage systems.
   (E)   Individual sewage treatment system (ISTS) requirements.
      (1)   Design requirements. If public sewer facilities are not available
and individual sewage treatment systems are proposed, minimum lot areas shall
conform to the requirements of the zoning regulations. All on-site systems must
comply with the regulations and standards of the city and Minn. Rule 7080, as
it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Soil testing. Percolation tests and test holes shall be made as
directed by the building official and the results submitted to the city. The
individual disposal system, including the size of the septic tanks and size of
the tile fields or other secondary treatment device, shall also be approved by
the building official.
      (3)   Covenants. Restrictive covenants shall be required to be recorded
for subdivisions with individual sewage treatment systems. The covenants shall
be approved by the city attorney and include the following:
         (a)   Require that an on-site system be confined to the service of one
single-family detached dwelling;
         (b)   Require that each site maintain at least two areas for an on-
site system to be constructed;
         (c)   Restrict any building or activity on both ISTS drain fields;
         (d)   Require that when municipal sewer service becomes available to
the subdivision, the landowner will connect to the system within one year; and
         (e)   The Planning Commission may impose restrictions and requirements
as it deems necessary for the protection of the public health, safety and
general welfare for the subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.086 WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   General requirements. Extensions of the water supply system shall when
available, be designed so as to provide water service to each lot. The
applicant shall install water facilities in a manner prescribed by the city’s
construction standards and specifications. All plans shall be designed and
approved in accordance with the rules, regulations, and standards of the city,
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency and Department of Health, and other
appropriate agencies.
   (B)   Mandatory connection to public water system. If public water is
accessible or is being placed in a street or alley abutting the subdivision,
the owner of the property shall be required to connect each lot to the system.
   (C)   Multi-family residential and nonresidential uses. The standards
applied to the sanitary sewer in §
153.085(C) shall apply to the water systems in proposed multi-family
residential and nonresidential subdivisions.
   (D)   Single-family and two-family residential uses. The standards applied
to the sanitary sewer in §
153.085(D) shall apply to the water systems in proposed single-family and two-
family residential subdivisions.
   (E)   Design standards.
      (1)   Standards. Public water mains shall be designed in conformance with
the city’s design standards and subject to the specifications of state
authorities.
      (2)   Water mains. All water mains shall be at least six inches in
diameter.
      (3)   Fire hydrants. Fire hydrants shall be located no more than 1,000
feet apart and within 500 feet of any structure and shall be approved by the
applicable fire protection unit, where required. To eliminate future street
openings, all underground utilities for fire hydrants, together with the fire
hydrants themselves, and all other supply improvements shall be installed
before any final paving of a street shown on the subdivision plat.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.087 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Location. All utility facilities, including but not limited to gas,
electric power, telephone, and CATV cables, shall be located underground
throughout the subdivision. Whenever existing utility facilities are located
above ground, except when existing on public roads and rights-of-way, they
shall be removed and placed underground. All utility facilities existing and
proposed throughout the subdivision shall be shown on the preliminary plat.
Underground service connections to the street property line of each platted lot
shall be installed at the subdivider’s expense. At the discretion of the
Planning Commission, the requirement for service connections to each lot may be
waived in the case of adjoining lots to be retained in single ownership and
intended to be developed for the same primary use.
   (B)   Easements.
      (1)   Easements centered on rear lot lines shall be provided for
utilities (private and municipal) and the easements shall be at least ten feet
wide. Proper coordination shall be established between the subdivider and the
applicable utility companies for the establishment of utility easements
established in adjoining properties.
      (2)   When topographical or other conditions are as to make impractical
the inclusion of utilities within the rear lot lines, perpetual unobstructed
easements at least ten feet in width shall be provided along side lot lines
with satisfactory access to the road or rear lot lines. Easements shall be
indicated on the plat.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.088 PUBLIC SITES, PARKS AND OPEN SPACE.
   (A)   Where a proposed park, playground, public access to water frontage,
school site, highway, historic site, or other public site as shown on the
comprehensive development plan is embraced in part or in whole by the boundary
of a proposed subdivision and public sites are not dedicated, the public ground
shall be reserved and no action taken towards approval of preliminary or final
plat for a period not to exceed 90 days to allow the opportunity to consider
and take actions towards acquisition of the public ground or park by purchase
or other causes.
   (B)   In all new subdivisions, 10% of the gross area subdivided shall be
dedicated for public recreation space, school sites, or other public use with
the 10% being in addition to property dedicated for streets, alleys, easements,
or other public ways. No areas may be dedicated for public use until the areas
have been approved as being suitable and needed for the public health, safety,
convenience and/or general welfare. When in the judgment of the Council the
subdivision is too small for practical dedication of public land or if no land
in the subdivision is suitable for the use, the subdivider may be required to
pay a fee in lieu of parkland dedication. The fee shall be established in the
city’s fee schedule and the fee to be deposited in a fund dedicated to the park
and recreation purposes.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.089 TRAILS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Trails. Lands being subdivided adjacent to rail corridors as
designated on the comprehensive plan shall dedicate the necessary easements or
rights-of-way and install the trail facilities in conformance with the city’s
trail design standards as approved by the city engineer.
   (B)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Lands being subdivided adjacent to streets as with designated on
the city’s sidewalk plan shall be installed by the applicant within the
dedicated nonpavement right-of-way.
      (2)   Concrete curbs are required for all streets when sidewalks are
required by these regulations or when required in the discretion of the
Planning Commission.
      (3)   A median strip of grassed or landscaped areas at least two feet
wide shall separate all sidewalks from adjacent curbs.
   (C)   Pedestrian accesses. The Planning Commission may require, in order to
facilitate pedestrian access from the roads to schools, parks, playgrounds, or
other nearby roads, perpetual unobstructed easements at least 20 feet in width.
Pedestrian easements shall be indicated on the plat.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.090 STREET LIGHTS AND SIGNS.
   (A)   Street lights. Installation of streetlights shall be required in
accordance with design and specification standards approved by the city
engineer.
   (B)   Street name and regulatory signs. The applicant shall deposit with the
city at the time of final subdivision approval the sum of $50 for each street
sign required by the city engineer at all road intersections. The city shall
install all street signs before issuance of certificates of occupancy for any
residence on the streets approved. Street name signs are to placed at all
intersections within or abutting the subdivision, the type and location of
which to be approved by the city engineer.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.091 STREET TREES.
   Provision shall be made for adequate street tree planting within the
subdivision. Street trees, if provided, shall be at not less than 40-foot
intervals nor more than 60 feet. They shall be of hardy, shade-producing type
and of a minimum diameter of 1-1/2 inches at time of planting.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.092 SOLAR ACCESS.
   (A)   General. All new subdivisions shall be designed so that the maximum
number of buildings shall receive sunlight sufficient for using solar energy
systems for space, water or industrial process heating or cooling.
   (B)   Manual. For purposes of design, the city will provide a manual
outlining design criteria for solar access. The criteria shall also be used by
the city in making staff reviews of each new subdivision.
   (C)   Street and lot orientation.
      (1)   Each proposed subdivision shall require a minimum of 50% of solar
lots or lots that have a north-south orientation.
      (2)   To provide increased opportunity for south orientation of
structures, streets shall be designed running in east/west directions and lots
designed on a north/south axis. This provision shall apply where conditions
reasonably warrant the design.
   (D)   Compliance. The Planning Commission may recommend to the Council that
specific solar standards by modified under the following circumstances.
      (1)   The topography of the site is unsuitable for purposes of compliance
with some or all of the solar standards.
      (2)   Compliance with some or all of the solar standards would adversely
affect the natural features of the area being proposed for development.
      (3)   Other design techniques such as clustering in a suitable means of
achieving more efficient solar orientation and access.
      (4)   Other designs that may be more suitable or energy efficient are
proposed in lieu of, or in combination with, solar energy systems or solar
structures.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.093 NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   In addition to the principles and standards in these regulations,
which are appropriate to the planning of all subdivisions, the applicant shall
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the street, parcel, and block
pattern proposed is specifically adapted to the uses anticipated and takes into
account other uses in the vicinity.
   (B)   The following principles and standards shall be observed.
      (1)   Proposed industrial parcels shall be suitable in area and
dimensions to the types of industrial development anticipated.
      (2)   Street rights-of-way and pavement shall be adequate to accommodate
the type and volume of traffic anticipated to be generated thereupon.
      (3)   Special requirements may be imposed by the local government with
respect to street, curb, gutter, and sidewalk design and construction.
      (4)   Special requirements may be imposed by the local government with
respect to the installation of public utilities, including water, sewer, and
storm water drainage.
      (5)   Every effort shall be made to protect adjacent residential areas
from potential nuisance from a proposed commercial or industrial subdivision,
including the provision of extra depth in parcels backing upon existing or
potential residential development and provisions for a permanently landscaped
buffer strip when necessary.
      (6)   Streets carrying nonresidential traffic, especially truck traffic,
shall not normally be extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or
potential residential areas.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.094 WETLAND DELINEATIONS, WETLAND BUFFERS, WETLAND STRUCTURE SETBACKS.
   (A)   Wetland delineations. All subdivisions of land including wetlands on
parcels that are subject to any potential grading or development shall include
a wetland delineation with initial subdivision submissions. Chisago County
shall review and comment on wetland delineations and potential wetland impacts
prior to final approval of any subdivision of property. Wetland impact and
mitigation plans shall be prepared according to Chisago County standards and no
development shall occur within any subdivision until all necessary wetland
permits have been obtained.
   (B)   Wetland buffers. Twenty feet wide wetland buffers shall be established
around all delineated wetlands. Wetland buffers within plats shall be
encumbered by drainage and utility easements. Wetland buffer areas shall not be
mowed, cleared, excavated or filled. Wetland buffers in platted and metes and
bounds subdivisions shall be marked by wetland buffer signs according to city
specifications. Unless otherwise specified by the city, wetland buffer signs
shall be placed at intervals necessary to clearly mark the edge of the buffers
or at 100-feet intervals, whichever is less.
   (C)   Wetland setbacks. All principal and accessory structures shall be set
back a minimum of 20 feet from a wetland buffer.
(Ord. 2006-, passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.105 SKETCH PLAT.
   (A)   General format. Sketch plats submitted to the Planning Commission
shall be drawn to a convenient scale of not more than 100 feet to an inch. The
sketch plans should provide information about existing streets, utilities,
property lines, structures, and the like, to a distance of 100 feet beyond all
sides of the proposed site.
   (B)   Project name.
      (1)   Name of subdivision if property is within an existing subdivision.
      (2)   Proposed name if not within a previously platted subdivision. The
proposed name shall not duplicate the name of any plat previously recorded.
      (3)   Name of property if no subdivision name has been chosen. (This is
commonly the name by which the property is locally known.)
   (C)   Project ownership and development information.
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the legal owner and/or agent
of property.
      (2)   Name, address, and telephone number of the professional person(s)
responsible for subdivision design, public improvements, surveys, and the like.
   (D)   Description of proposed project.
      (1)   Boundary line of the proposed site and all property(ies) to be
subdivided.
      (2)   Existing and proposed street layout and corresponding rights-of-
way. Include the width and names of all existing or platted streets or other
public ways within or immediately adjacent to the tract. Identify railroad
rights-of-way if applicable.
      (3)   The approximate location, dimensions, and areas of all proposed and
existing lots and blocks.
      (4)   Existing and proposed utilities; water, sewer, storm, electric, and
gas. Include and label public and private easements.
      (5)   General topography (10-foot vertical intervals minimum).
      (6)   Significant natural resource features on the site, i.e. wetlands;
floodplains, watercourses, existing wooded areas and major trees, and other
natural resource features.
      (7)   The approximate location, dimensions, and area of all parcels of
land proposed to be set aside for open space or park use for public use or for
the use of property owners in the proposed subdivision.
      (8)   The location of temporary stakes to enable the Planning Commission
to find and appraise features of the sketch plat in the field (if requested by
the city).
      (9)   A vicinity map showing streets and other general development of the
surrounding area.
      (10)   Legal description of the property. Identify the section, township,
range and county.
      (11)   Existing zoning classifications for land in and abutting the
subdivision.
      (12)   Total acreage of the proposed site.
      (13)   Provide graphic scale, north arrow, and date.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.106 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   General format. The preliminary plat shall be prepared by a licensed
land surveyor, engineer or land planner at a convenient scale not less than one
inch equals 100 feet. More than one sheet may be used to present the
information required in this section. The sheets shall be numbered in sequence
and shall be submitted on 22 inch by 34 inch sheets or as otherwise approved by
the city.
   (B)   Project name.
      (1)   Name of the proposed subdivision.
      (2)   The proposed name of subdivision shall not duplicate or be alike in
pronunciation of the name of any plat theretofore recorded in the county.
   (C)   Project ownership and development information.
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the legal owner and, if
applicable, agent of the property.
      (2)   Name, address, and telephone number of the professional person(s)
responsible for subdivision design, for the design of public improvements, and
for surveys.
      (3)   Approval of preliminary plat by owner.
      (4)   Date of preparation.
   (D)   Existing site conditions. Provide this information on a property
survey map.
      (1)   Boundary line of the proposed site and all property(ies) to be
subdivided. Include all contiguous land owned or controlled by the subdivider.
      (2)   Location, width, and names of all existing platted streets and
rights-of-way to a distance of 100 feet beyond the site.
      (3)   Show the type, width and condition of street improvements; railroad
or major utility rights-of-way, parks and other public open spaces, and
permanent buildings and structures to a distance of 100 feet beyond the site if
any.
      (4)   Location, widths, and names of all existing public and private
easements to a distance of 100 feet beyond the site.
      (5)   Identify by name and ownership boundary lines of all adjoining
lands within 100 feet of the proposed plat.
      (6)   Topographic data including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than two feet.
      (7)   Significant natural resource features on the site, i.e. wetlands,
floodplains, watercourses, existing wooded areas, other natural resource
features, and the like. Show all wetlands identified as a part of the wetland
sequencing process required by the Minnesota Wetland Conservation Act.
      (8)   Existing soil classifications, refer to the Chisago County soil
survey.
      (9)   Legal description of the property. Identify the section, township,
range and county.
      (10)   Existing zoning classifications for land in and abutting the
subdivision.
      (11)   Total acreage of the proposed site.
      (13)   Provide graphic scale, north arrow, and date.
   (E)   Subdivision design features. Provide this information on the
preliminary plat.
      (1)   Layout of proposed streets, showing right-of-way widths, types of
improvements, street surface widths, and proposed street names.
      (2)   Location and widths of alleys, if any.
      (3)   Locations and type of proposed public easements; i.e. drainage,
utility, pedestrian, and the like.
      (4)   Layout of proposed blocks and lots within the plat.
      (5)   Basic data regarding proposed and existing (if applicable) lots and
blocks, including numbers, dimensions, area (in square feet for lots in urban
areas and acres for lots in rural areas). Dimensions shall be provided for all
property lines to the nearest whole number.
      (6)   Minimum front, side and rear yard building setback lines for all
lots.
      (7)   Indication of the use of any lot (single-family, two-family, multi-
family, townhouse) and all uses other than residential proposed by the
subdivider.
      (8)   Location and size of all proposed and existing sanitary sewer lines
and water mains or proposed community sewer and water system within the plat
and to a distance of 100 feet beyond the site.
      (9)   Location and size of all proposed and existing storms sewers,
culverts, retention ponds and other stormwater facilities within the plat and
to a distance of 100 feet beyond the site.
      (10)   Areas, other than streets, alleys, pedestrian ways and utility
easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use, including the
size of the area or areas in acres. Provide information on the purpose of those
set asides, and conditions, if any, of the dedication or reservation.
   (F)   Preliminary construction plans. Provide information on one of more
sheets.
      (1)   Proposed street centerline profile grades, showing the existing and
proposed profile grade lines.
      (2)   Utilities plan showing proposed location of sanitary sewer, water,
and storm sewer lines. Identify size, grades, and elevations. Show points of
connection to the city systems or points of discharge.
      (3)   Grading and erosion control plan showing existing and proposed
grades, drainage patterns, and stormwater facilities. The erosion control plan
shall contain any information necessary for the city engineer and the building
inspector to determine that adequate erosion control measures are proposed. The
plan shall show the extent of grading activities in and adjacent to the plat.
Refer to the “Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Urban Development and Runoff
Handbook” for appropriate best management practices.
      (4)   Landscaping, if a residential plat is adjacent to a collector or
arterial street or Interstate 35 or for all commercial and industrial plats
provide information on the types of landscaping to be proposed with the
project. Refer to the City of Harris zoning regulations for requirements.
   (G)   Compliance with the Minnesota Wetlands Conservation Act. A certificate
of exemption or approved wetland plan that documents how the project complies
with the State of Minnesota Wetland Conservation Act, being M.S. Chapter 103F,
shall be submitted with the preliminary plat.
   (H)   Project information required. A cover letter can be used to provide
written information describing the project as follows.
      (1)   Statement of the proposed use of lots stating type of residential
buildings with number of proposed dwelling units and/or type of business or
industry so as to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, tire
hazards, and source of water supply.
      (2)   Provisions for sewage disposal, surface water drainage, and flood
control.
      (3)   If any zoning changes are contemplated, show the proposed zoning
areas, including dimensions.
      (4)   Other information as may be requested by the Planning Commission,
City Council, or zoning administrator.
   (I)   Other information required on the preliminary plat.
      (1)   The name of any street heretofore used in the city or its environs
shall not be used, unless the proposed street is an extension of an already
named street, in which event the name shall be used.
      (2)   Blocks shall be consecutively numbered in order. The blocks in
numbered additions to subdivisions bearing the same name shall be numbered or
lettered consecutively throughout the several additions.
      (3)   All lots in each block shall be consecutively numbered.
      (4)   Outlots, if allowed, shall be lettered in alphabetical order.
      (5)   All information required on sketch plat should also be shown on the
preliminary plat, and the following notation shall also be shown.
      (6)   Endorsement of owner, as follows:
         ________________________________       ____________
         Owner’s Approval of the Preliminary Plat      Date
   (J)   Rural residential subdivisions. If a plat is proposed in a rural
residential zoning district, the applicant shall provide the following
information on the design of individual sewer treatment systems (ISTS), a copy
of the preliminary plat can be used to illustrate this information.
      (1)   A minimum of two percolation tests on each lot in the proposed
plat.
      (2)   A report from a licensed designer verifying that the soils for each
lot are acceptable for an on-site sewer system. The report shall also address
how the systems will be designed in accordance with the MPCA Chapter 7080, as
it shall be amended from time to time, and Chisago County ISTS Ordinance.
      (3)   A map of the site illustrating the location of the percolation
tests on each lot, primary and secondary drain field areas, general soil
conditions, and proposed building and driveway areas.
      (4)   Anyone engaging in the business of site evaluation, design,
installation, repair, or pumping of an individual sewer treatment system within
the City of Harris must be licensed as defined in the Chisago County ISTS
Ordinance.
      (5)   Water samples shall be submitted to the Minnesota Department of
Health or other appropriate agencies for its approval, and individual wells and
central water systems shall be approved by the appropriate health authorities.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.107 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   General format. The final subdivision plat shall drawn with
waterproof, nonfading ink on transparent mylar at a scale of 100 feet to the
inch.
   (B)   Content. The final plat shall be prepared for recording purposes and
be in accordance with the provisions of M.S. Chapter 505, as it may be amended
from time to time. The final plat shall also include the following:
      (1)   Notation of any self-imposed restrictions, and locations of any
building lines proposed to be established in this manner, if required by the
City Council in accordance with these regulations;
      (2)   Endorsement on the plat by every person or party having a security
interest in the subdivision property that they are subordinating their liens to
all covenants and easements imposed on the property;
      (3)   Lots numbered as approved by the city; and
      (4)   All monuments erected, corners, and other points established in the
field in their proper places. The material of which the monuments, corners, or
other points are made shall be noted at the representation thereof or by
legend, except that lot corners need not be shown. The legend for metal
monuments shall indicate the kind of metal, the diameter, length, and weight
per lineal foot of the monuments.
   (C)   Preparation. The final subdivision plat shall be prepared by a land
surveyor licensed by the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.108 CONSTRUCTION PLANS.
   (A)   General. Construction plans shall be prepared for all required
improvements. Plans shall be drawn at a scale of no more than one inch equals
50 feet, and map sheets shall be of the same size as the preliminary plat.
   (B)   Required to be shown. The following shall be shown.
      (1)   Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along centerlines
of all roads. Where a proposed road intersects an existing road or roads, the
elevation along the centerline of the existing road or roads within 100 feet of
the intersection, shall be shown. Approximate radii of all curves, lengths of
tangents, and central angles on all streets shall be shown.
      (2)   The City Council may require, where steep slopes exist, that cross-
sections of all proposed streets at 100 foot stations be shown at five points
as follows: on a line at right angles to the center line of the sheet, and the
elevation points shall be at the center line of the street, each property line,
and points 25 feet inside each property line.
      (3)   Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical cross-section
of street pavements including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, drainage easements,
rights-of-way, manholes and catch basins; the locations of street trees, street
lighting standards, and street signs; the location, size, and invert elevations
of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, storm water drains, and fire
hydrants, showing connection to any existing or proposed utility systems; and
exact location and size of all water, gas, or other underground utilities or
structures.
      (4)   Location, size, elevation, and other appropriate descriptions of
arty existing facilities or utilities, including, but not limited to, existing
streets, sewers, drains, water mains, easements, water bodies, streams, and
other pertinent features, at the point of connection to proposed facilities and
utilities within the subdivision.
      (5)   A final site grading plan for the entire subdivision. Topography at
the same scale as the preliminary plat with a contour interval of two feet,
referred to U.S.G.S. datum. The water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams
at the date of the survey, and the approximate high-and low-water elevations of
the lakes or streams. Major trees to be preserved, with a diameter of eight
inches or more measured 12 inches above ground level, shall be shown on the
final grading plan. Adequate measures for protecting major trees shall be shown
on the grading plan. Refer to “Conserving Wooded Areas in Developing
Communities Best Management Practices Handbook” prepared by the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources.
      (6)   All specifications and references required by the city’s
construction standards and specifications.
      (7)   The final construction plans shall provide the notation of approval
as follows:
         _____________   ______      
         Owner         Date
         _____________   ______      
         City Engineer      Date
      (8)   Title, name, address, and signature of professional engineer and
surveyor, and date revision dates.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.109 TITLE WORK.
   A title insurance commitment or an opinion of title by the subdivider’s
attorney addressed to the city shall be required for all subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.110 RECORDING DOCUMENTS.
   After the final plat is approved by the County Board and certified by the
county auditor, the subdivider shall submit two double mounted, cloth-backed
prints on card stock or material of equal quality and one transparent
reproducible copy. The plat shall then be recorded with the Chisago County
recorder’s office.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.111 MAPPING DOCUMENTS.
   A digital or electronic copy of the approved final plat shall be submitted
to the city in a format as approved by the zoning administrator.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.112 METES AND BOUNDS SURVEY.
   (A)   General format. A metes and bounds survey submitted to the zoning
administrator shall be drawn at a scale of 200 feet to the inch.
   (B)   Content. The metes and bounds survey shall be prepared for recording
purposes and be in accordance with the provisions of M.S. Chapter 505, as it
may be amended from time to time. The metes and bounds survey shall include the
following.
      (1)   Legal description of the property. Identify the section, township,
range and county.
      (2)   Existing zoning classifications for land in and abutting the
subdivision.
      (3)   Total acreage of the proposed site.
      (4)   Parcels numbered as approved by the city.
      (5)   Location of all rights-of-way adjacent to the property.
      (6)   Location of all existing private and public easements.
      (7)   General location of all wetlands on the site. Refer to the City of
Harris wetland map.
      (8)   All monuments erected, corners, and other points established in the
field in their proper places. The material of which the monuments, corners, or
other points are made shall be noted at the representation thereof or by
legend, except that lot corners need not be shown. The legend for metal
monuments shall indicate the kind of metal, the diameter, length, and weight
per lineal foot of the monuments.
      (9)   Provide graphic scale, north arrow, and date.
   (C)   Preparation. The metes and bounds survey shall be prepared by a land
surveyor licensed by the State of Minnesota.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations. Any person, business, corporation or organization who
violates any of the provisions of this chapter; or fails, neglects or refuses
to comply with the provisions of this chapter, including violations of terms
and conditions established in connection with the approval of a subdivision or
fails to comply with restoration orders; or who knowingly makes false
statements in any documents required to be submitted under the provisions
herein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day that a violation continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Civil enforcement. In the event of a violation or a threatened
violation of this chapter, the zoning administrator, in addition to other
remedies, may institute appropriate actions or proceedings to prevent,
restrain, correct, or abate the violations or threatened violations. It shall
be the duty of the city attorney to institute this action.
(Ord. passed 1-23-2001)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
   
154.01   Title
   
154.02   Intent and purpose
   
154.03   Definitions
   
154.04   Rule and general provisions
   
154.05   Nonconforming uses and structures
   
154.06   Lot provisions
   
154.07   Building requirements
   
154.08   Required yards and open spaces
   
154.09   Traffic visibility
   
154.10   Farming operations
   
154.11   Essential services and public facilities
   
154.12   Land reclamation
   
154.13   Relocated structures
   
154.14   District regulations
   
154.15   Performance standards
   
154.16   Signs
   
154.17   Off-street parking requirements
   
154.18   Off-street loading
   
154.19   Drive-in businesses
   
154.20   Motor fuel stations
   
154.21   Planned unit development
   
154.22   Fences
   
154.23   Public utility services
   
154.24   Communications towers and antennae
   
154.25   Enforcing officer
   
154.26   Duties of the enforcing officer
   
154.27   Appeals and Board of Appeals
   
154.28   Variances
   
154.29   Conditional use permit
   
154.30   Interim use permits
   
154.31   Amending of zoning regulations
   
154.32   Fees
   
154.33   Violations and penalties
§ 154.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, cited and referred to as the City Zoning
Chapter, referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Prior Code, § 601.01)
§ 154.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of:
   (A)   Providing a means of guiding future development of land so as to
ensure a safer, more pleasant and more economical environment for residential,
commercial, industrial and public activities and to promote the public health,
safety, morals, comfort, convenience and general welfare;
   (B)   Dividing the city into zones and districts and regulating therein, the
location, construction, reconstruction, alteration and use of structures and
land;
   (C)   Promoting orderly development of the residential, business,
industrial, agricultural, recreational and public areas;
   (D)   Providing adequate light, air, privacy, and convenience of access to
property;
   (E)   Limiting congestion in the public rights-of-way and providing for the
off-street parking of motor vehicles;
   (F)   Preventing overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures
by regulating the use of land and buildings and the bulk of buildings in
relation to the land and buildings surrounding them;
   (G)   Providing for the compatibility of different land uses and the most
appropriate use of land throughout the city;
   (H)   Protecting and guiding the development of the rural areas;
   (I)   Conserving and developing natural resources, and maintaining a high
standard of environmental quality;
   (J)   Fostering agriculture and other industries;
   (K)   Preventing a wasteful scattering of population;
   (L)   Developing lands more wisely to serve citizens more effectively,
making the provision of public services less costly, and achieving a more
secure tax base;
   (M)   Providing public guides to future municipal action, enabling other
public and private agencies to plan their activities in harmony with the
municipalities’ plans;
   (N)   Guiding wise development of shorelands of public waters and preserving
the economic and natural environmental values of shorelands;
   (O)   Preserving and enhancing the quality of surface waters;
   (P)   Providing certain health and safety standards for the protection of
the public health, safety, comfort and general welfare;
   (Q)   Providing for the administration of this chapter and amendments
thereto;
   (R)   Defining the powers and duties of the administrative officers and
bodies, as provided hereinafter; and
   (S)   Prescribing penalties for the violation of the provisions of this
chapter or any amendment thereto.
(Prior Code, § 601.02)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Words
used in the present tense shall include the future tense; words in the singular
number shall include the plural; words in the plural shall include the
singular; and words in the masculine shall include the feminine gender.
   AGRICULTURAL, RURAL. An area of five or more contiguous acres which is used
for the production of farm crops such as vegetables, fruit trees, grain, and
other crops and their storage on the area, as well as for the raising thereon
of farm poultry, domestic pets, and domestic farm animals. The term FARMING
includes the operating of an area for one or more of the above uses, including
dairy farms with the necessary accessory uses for treating or storing the
produce; provided, however, that the operation of any accessory uses shall be
secondary to that of the farming activity, and provide further that farming
does not include commercial pen feeding (feed lots) or the commercial feeding
of garbage to swine or other animals.
   AGRICULTURAL, URBAN. An area of less than five contiguous acres which is
used for the purpose of growing produce including crops, fruit, trees, scrubs,
plants and flowers, vegetables, and the like provided the produce is intended
solely for the use of residents on the property or sale away from the property.
It may include roadside stand for sale of products, processing or packaging
operations, or similar uses.
   AIRPORT or HELIPORT. Any land or structure which is used or intended for
use, for the landing and take-off of aircraft, and any appurtenant land or
structure used or intended for use for port buildings or other port structures
or rights-of-way.
   ANTENNA. Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
transmitting electromagnetic waves, including but not limited to directional
antennae, such as panels, microwave dishes, and satellite dishes, and
omnidirectional antennae, such as whip antennae.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite with cooking facilities available which is
occupied as a residence by a single family.
   APARTMENT, ACCESSORY or MOTHER-IN-LAW APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms
with cooking facilities available that is distinct from the principal dwelling
and has a separate exterior entrance from the principal dwelling which is
occupied as a residence by a single family who is related to the owner or
occupant of the principal dwelling by blood, marriage, or legal adoption.
   BASEMENT. A portion of a building located partly underground but having less
than half its floor-to-ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining
ground.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A building other than a motel or hotel where, for
compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods, meals or lodgings are
provided for three or more persons, but not to exceed eight persons.
   BOUNDARY LINES. Lines indicating the bounds or limits of any tract, parcel,
lot, or site of land.
   BUILDING. Any structure, excepting silos, having a roof which may provide
shelter or enclosure of persons, animals or chattel, and when the structures
are divided by party walls without openings, each portion of the building so
separated shall be deemed a separate building.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. A distance to be measured from the mean curb level along
the front lot line or from the mean ground level for all of that portion of the
structure having frontage on a public right-of-way, whichever is higher, to the
top of the cornice of a flat roof, to the deck line of a mansard roof, to a
point on the roof directly above the highest wall of a shed roof, to the
uppermost point on a round or other arch type roof, to the mean distance of the
highest gable on a pitched or hip roof.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A non-accessory building in which a principal use of
the lot on which it is located is conducted.
   BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold, or where services are offered for compensation.
   CARPORT. An automobile shelter having one or more sides open.
   CELLAR. That portion of the building having more than half of the floor-to-
ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead and dedicated for cemetery
purposes, including columbariums, mausoleums and mortuaries when operated in
conjunction with and within the boundary of the cemetery.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
   CITY. The City of Harris, Minnesota.
   CLINIC. An establishment where patients who are not lodged overnight are
admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians practicing
medicine together.
   CLUB or LODGE. A non-profit association of persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues, use of premises being restricted to members and their
guests.
   COMMERCIAL FEED LOT. An area where 15 or more animals per acre are fed
solely for purposes of wholesale or retail sale.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATION. Bowling alley, cart track, jump center, golf, pool
hall, vehicle racing or amusement, dance hall, ski lodge, skating, tavern,
theater, firearms range, and similar uses.
   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. Licensed commercial wireless
telecommunication services including cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio
(ESMR), paging, and similar services.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Unless otherwise stated, it is the general plan for land
use, transportation, and community facilities prepared and maintained by the
Planning Commission.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT. A permit specially and individually granted by the
Council, after a public hearing thereon by the Planning Commission, for any use
listed as a conditional use in any district.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Harris, Minnesota.
   DRIVE-IN. Any use where products and/or services are provided to the
customer under conditions where the customer does not have to leave the car or
where fast service to the automobile occupants is the principal service
offered.
   DWELLING. A building, or one or more portions thereof, occupied or intended
to be occupied exclusively for residence purposes, but not including rooms in
motels, hotels, nursing homes, boarding houses, nor trailers, tents, cabins or
trailer coaches.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A single-family dwelling which is joined to another
single-family dwelling and designed for individual ownership.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A single-family dwelling which is entirely surrounded by
open space on the same lot.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. Dwellings designed for more than one family, which are
adjoined to one another but not intended for individual ownership.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for and occupied exclusively by
one family.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water
transmission or distribution systems; collection, communication, supply or
disposal systems including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals,
hydrants or other similar equipment and accessories in conjunction therewith;
but not including buildings.
   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons each related by blood,
marriage, or adoption, living together as single housekeeping unit; or a group
of not more than four persons not so related, maintaining a common household
and using common cooking and kitchen facilities.
   FARM. Any tract of land five acres or greater used principally for
agricultural purposes.
   FENCE. Any partition, structure, wall or gate erected as a dividing marker,
barrier, or enclosure.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several floors of a
building including interior balconies, mezzanines, basements and attached
accessory buildings, but excepting that area primarily devoted to window
display, storage, fitting rooms, stairs, escalators, unenclosed porches,
detached accessory buildings utilized for dead storage, heating and utility
rooms, inside off-street parking or loading space. Measurements shall be made
from the outside of exterior walls.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of the principal
building, including a carport, which is used primarily for storage of passenger
vehicles, trailers or one truck of a rated capacity not in excess of 7,000
pounds.
   GENERAL INDUSTRY. All manufacture, processing, packaging, treatment, or
assemble of products and materials likely to create offensive odors, noise,
dust, smoke, heat, glare, vibrations, or other objectionable influences; these
uses include sand and gravel operations, concrete or asphalt plants, junk
yards, vinegar works, distilleries, claystone-glass products, combustible or
explosive materials storage or processing, chemicals (manufacture), wood
planning and mil/work, fertilizer and similar uses.
   HOME OCCUPATION.
      (1)   Any gainful occupation meeting all of the following requirements:
         (a)   When engaged in only by persons residing in their dwelling;
         (b)   When that occupation is conducted in not more than one room
within the principal structure;
         (c)   When evidence of the occupation is not visible from the street;
         (d)   When the principal structure becomes the base of operation for
that occupation using only that equipment or machinery which is usually found
in a home; and
         (e)   When not involving the retail sales of products produced off the
site.
      (2)   No accessory building shall be used for a HOME OCCUPATION  unless
approved with an interim use permit.
   HOTEL. A building containing eight or more guest rooms in which lodging is
provided with or without meals for compensation and which is open to transient,
permanent guests or both, and where no provision is made for cooking in any
guest room, and in which ingress and egress to and from all rooms is made
through an inside lobby or office.
   JUNK YARD, GENERAL. An area where used, waste, discarded or salvaged
materials are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, cleaned, packed,
disassembled or handled including but not limited to scrap iron, and other
metals, paper, rags, rubber products, bottles and lumber. Storage of the
material in conjunction with a permitted manufacturing process when within an
enclosed area or building shall not be included.
   JUNK YARD, MOTOR VEHICLE. A lot or yard where one or more unlicensed motor
vehicles, or the parts thereof, are kept for the purpose of dismantling,
wrecking, crushing, repairing, rebuilding, sale of parts, sale as scrap,
storage or abandonment.
   KENNEL, ANIMAL. Any place where three or more of any single type of domestic
animals, over four months of age, are owned, boarded, bred or offered for sale.
   LIMITED INDUSTRY. All manufacture, processing, packaging, treatment, or
assembly of products and materials not likely to give offensive odors, noise,
glare, heat, vibration, dust or other objectionable influences; these uses
include service and light industries that manufacture, process, store and
distribute goods and materials and are in general dependent upon raw materials
refined elsewhere; these include: electronics and research, assembly of parts,
automobile repair, printing, tinsmithing, plumbing and contractors’ shops, food
processing (non-offensive) and similar uses.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or uses or intended for occupancy or use by a
use permit in this chapter, abutting on a public street, and of sufficient size
to provide the yards required by this chapter.
   LOT OF RECORD. Any lot which is one unit of a plat heretofore duly approved
and filed, or one unit of an auditor’s subdivision or a registered land survey,
or a parcel of land not so platted; subdivided or registered, for which a deed,
auditor’s subdivision or registered land survey has been recorded in the office
of the register of deeds or registrar of titles for the county, prior to the
effective date of this chapter.
   LOT AREA. The area of a lot in a horizontal plane bounded by the lot lines.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of, and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets, or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
continuous street, the interior angle of which does not exceed 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot.
   LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot except that where any portion of
a lot extends into the public right-of-way, the line of the public right-of-way
shall be the LOT LINE for applying this chapter.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street, and in the case of a corner lot it shall be the shortest
dimension on a public street. If the dimension of a corner lot are equal, the
FRONT LOT LINE shall be designated by the owner and filed with the city.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line.
If the REAR LOT LINE is less than ten feet in length, or if the lot forms a
point at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be a line ten feet in length within
the lot, parallel to, and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or a
rear lot line.
   LOT, THROUGH. A lot which has a pair of opposite lot lines abutting two
substantially parallel streets, and which is not a corner lot. On a THROUGH
LOT, both street lines shall be front lot lines for applying this chapter.
   LOT WIDTH. The maximum horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a
lot measured within the first 30 feet of the lot depth.
   MINERAL. Sand, gravel, rock, soil, clay, and similar higher density non-
metallic natural minerals.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION. The removal of minerals from the ground and off the
site.
   MOBILE HOME. A transportable, single-family dwelling unit suitable for year
around occupancy and containing the same water supply, waste disposal and
electrical conveniences as immobile housing and subject to tax or registration
under state law, and having no foundation other than wheels, jacks or
skirtings.
   MOBILE HOME COURT OR PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which
two or more occupied mobile homes are harbored, either free of charge or for
revenue purposes, and shall include any building, structure, tent, vehicle or
enclosure used or intended for use as an accessory building or part of the
equipment of the mobile home court. The term MOBILE HOME COURT shall include
the terms TRAILER PARK, TRAILER COURT and MOBILE HOME PARK.
   MOTOR COURT, MOTOR HOTEL OR HOTEL. A parcel of land upon which is located a
building or a group of buildings other than a hotel and used primarily as a
temporary residence of a motorist.
   MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL. A building or area in which freight brought by motor
truck is assembled and/or stored for routing in intrastate or interstate
shipment by motor truck.
   MOTOR SERVICE STATION. A retail place of business engaged primarily in the
sale of motor fuels, but also may be engaged in supplying goods and services
generally associated with the operation and maintenance of motor vehicles.
These may include sale of petroleum products, sale and servicing of tires,
batteries, automotive accessories, and replacement items, washing and
lubrication services; and the performance of minor automotive maintenance and
repair.
   NOXIOUS MATTER OR MATERIAL. Material capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction, or is capable of causing detrimental effects on
the physical or economic well-being of individuals.
   NURSERY, DAY. A school designed to provide daytime care for three or more
children under kindergarten age for periods of four hours or more per day.
   NURSERY, LANDSCAPE. A business growing and selling trees, flowering and
decorative plants, and shrubs and which may be conducted within a building or
without, for the purpose of landscape construction.
   NURSING HOME. A private home for the care of children or the aged or infirm
or place of rest for those suffering bodily disorder. A NURSING HOME does not
contain equipment for surgical care or for the treatment of disease or injury,
nor does it include maternity care or care for mental illnesses or infirmities.
   OPEN SALES LOT. Land devoted to the display of goods for sale, rent, lease
or trade where the goods are not enclosed within a building.
   OPEN STORAGE. Storage of any material outside of a building.
   PARKING SPACE. A suitable surfaced and permanently maintained area on
privately owned property either within or outside of a building of sufficient
size as provided herein.
   PARTY WALL. A common wall which divides two independent structures.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD. Criterion established to control noise, odor, toxic or
noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare or heat
generated by or inherent in uses of land or buildings.
   PERSON. An individual, to include both male and female and shall also extend
and be applied to bodies political and corporate and to partnership and other
unincorporated associations.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The duly appointed planning and zoning advisory
commission of the City of Harris.
   PROPERTY LINE. The legal, boundaries of a parcel of property which may also
coincide with a right-of-way line of a road, cartway, and the like.
   PUBLIC LAND. Land owned and/or operated by a governmental unit, including
school districts.
   PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES. Overhead or underground electric, gas,
communication, steam or water transmission or distribution systems and
structures, or collection, supply or disposal systems and structures, used by
public utilities or governmental departments or commissions, or as are required
for protection of the public health, safety or general welfare, including
towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire
alarm boxes, police call boxes, and accessories in connection therewith, but
not including public utility buildings.
   RECREATIONAL FACILITY OR STUDIO. Including yoga, gymnastics, karate, self
defense, dance, fitness clubs, arts, crafts, and indoor sports.
   RETAIL SALES AND SERVICES. Stores and shops selling the following goods and
services: food, clothing, drugs, hardware, laundry and dry cleaning, bakery,
furniture, watch repair, cards, sporting goods and other similar to those
listed above.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a building and street
right-of-way or property line. Distances are to be measured perpendicularly
from the property line to the most outwardly extended portion of the structure
at ground level.
   SIGN. The term shall mean any written announcement, declaration,
demonstration, display, illustration, insignia or illumination used to
advertise or promote the interest of any person when the same is displayed or
placed out of doors in view of the general public and shall include every
detached sign.
   SIGN-ADVERTISING (BILLBOARD). A sign which directs attention to a business,
commodity, service, or entertainment not exclusively related to the premises
where the sign is located.
   SIGN BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted or to a commodity, service, or entertainment sold or offered on the
premises on which the sign is located.
   SIGN, FLASHING. An illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained constant in intensity and color at all times in which the sign is in
use.
   SIGN, GROSS AREA OF. The area within the frame shall be used to calculate
the gross area except that the width of the frame in excess of 12 inches shall
be added thereto. When letters or graphics are mounted without a frame the
gross area shall be the area bounded by straight lines six inches beyond the
periphery of the letters or graphics. Each surface utilized to display a
message or to attract attention shall be measured as a separate sign. However,
only six side of a double face sign shall be measured in computing the gross
area thereof.
   SIGN, ILLUMINATED. Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes.
   SIGN, NAMEPLATE. Any sign which states the name or address or both of the
business or occupant of the lot where the sign is placed or may be a directory
listing the names, address and business of occupants.
   STORY. That portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor next above it; or if there is no floor above, the
space between the floor and the ceiling next above. A basement shall be counted
as a STORY.
   STREET. A public right-of-way which affords a primary means of access to
abutting property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
location on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the
ground, including but without limiting the generality of the foregoing
advertising signs, billboards or fences.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION. Any change, other than normal and incidental repairs,
which would prolong the life of the supporting members of a building, such as
bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
   STRUCTURE, NONCONFORMING. Any structure which is legally existing upon the
effective date of this chapter, which would not conform to the applicable
regulations if the structure were to be erected under the provisions of this
chapter.
   THOROUGHFARE. All federal, state, county and village streets, roads or
public right-of-ways.
   TOWER. Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, structure, or combination
thereof taller than 35 feet, including supporting lines, cables, wires, braces,
and masts, intended primarily for the purpose of mounting an antenna,
meteorological device, or similar apparatus above grade.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use subordinate to and serving the principal use or
structure on the same lot and customarily incidental thereto.
   USE, CONDITIONAL.
      (1)   Either a public or private use as listed which, because of its
unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified as a permitted use in a
particular district. After consideration, in each case, of the impact of the
use upon neighboring land, and of the public need for the particular use at the
particular location, the CONDITIONAL USE may or may not be granted by the
Council.
      (2)   The occupations, vocations, skills, arts, businesses, professions,
or uses specifically designated in each zoning use district, which for their
respective conduct, exercise or performance in a designated use districts may
require reasonable but special, peculiar, unusual or extraordinary limitations,
facilities, plans, structures, thoroughfares, conditional modification, or
regulations in the use district. For the promotion or preservation of the
general public welfare, health, convenience, or safety therein and in the
county and therefore may be permitted in the use district only by a conditional
use permit.
   USE, INTERIM. A temporary use of land or structure allowed within a zoning
district by interim use permit.
   USE, NONCONFORMING. A use of land, buildings or structures lawfully existing
at the time of adoption of this chapter which does not comply with all the
regulations of this chapter or any use of land, building or structure lawfully
existing prior to the adoption of an amendment which would not comply with all
of the regulations.
   USE, OPEN. The use of a lot without a building or including a building
incidental to the OPEN USE with a ground floor area, equal to 5% or less of the
area of the lot.
   USE, PERMITTED. A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and performance standards of the district.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses. A PRINCIPAL USE may be either permitted or
conditional.
   WAREHOUSING. The storage of materials or equipment within an enclosed
building as a principal use.
   WHOLESALING. The selling of goods, equipment and materials by bulk to
another business that resells to its customers.
   YARD. A required open space on a lot, which is unoccupied and unobstructed
by a structure from its lowest ground level to the sky except as expressly
permitted in this chapter. A YARD shall extend along a lot line and at right
angles to the lot line to a depth or width specified in the yard regulations
for the district in which the lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending along the full width of the lot line between
side lot lines and extending from the abutting front street right-of-way line
to a depth required in the yard regulations for the district in which the lot
is located.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending along the full width of the rear lot line
between the side lot lines and extending toward the front lot line for a depth
as specified in the yard regulations for the district in which the lot is
located.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard extending along a side lot line between the front and
rear yards, having a width as specified in the yard regulations for the
district in which the lot is located.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area or areas within the limits of the city for which
the regulations and requirements governing use are uniform.
(Prior Code, § 601.03) (Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 6-27-2005; Am. Ord. 2007-5-14,
passed 5-14-2007; Am. Ord. 2017-04, passed 9-11-2017; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed
6-8-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-02, passed 5-10-2021; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed 3-13-
2023)
§ 154.04 RULE AND GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the
public health, safety, morals and general welfare.
   (B)   Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this chapter are
either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed
by any other law, ordinance, statute, resolution or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive or which impose higher standards or
requirements shall prevail.
   (C)   Except as in this chapter specifically provided, no structure shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or altered, and no structure or
land shall be used for any purpose or in any manner which is not in conformity
with this chapter.
   (D)   No cellar, garage, tent, trailer, recreational vehicle, basement or
accessory building shall, at any time be used as a dwelling unit except mobile
homes as regulated in this chapter; and a basement home may be used as a
dwelling for a period not exceeding three years, pending completion of
structure above. The basement portion of a finished home or apartment building
may be used for normal eating and sleeping purposes provided it is properly
damp-proofed, has suitable fire protection and exits, and is otherwise approved
by the building inspector.
   (E)   Except where specifically permitted in this chapter, no person may
occupy or inhabit any structure not specifically designed for human habitation
as a dwelling, including, but not limited to, accessory buildings, tents,
campers, makeshift structures or any structures designed for habitation without
functional plumbing, self-renewable heating sources and electricity.
(Prior Code, § 601.04) (Am. Ord. 2015-01, passed 6-8-2015; Am. Ord. 2017-01,
passed 8-14-2017)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.05 NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Generally. This chapter establishes separate and distinct districts,
each of which is appropriate for certain specified uses and conditions. It is
the purpose of this section to provide for the regulation of existing
structures, uses, and lots that do not conform to the requirements of the
district in which they are located and to specify the requirements,
circumstances, and conditions under which the nonconforming structure, use, or
lot may be continued. In furtherance of the goals and purpose of this chapter,
it is also the intent of this section that all nonconforming uses shall
eventually be eliminated or made to comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Definition. IMPROVEMENT means making the non-conforming use better,
more efficient, or more aesthetically pleasing, including any change that does
not replicate what pre-existed, but does not include expansion, enlargement, or
intensification.
   (C)   Any structure or use, including mobile homes, lawfully existing upon
the effective date of this chapter shall not be expanded, enlarged, or
intensified, but may be continued at the size and in a manner of operation
existing upon the date, including through repair, replacement, restoration,
maintenance or improvement, except as hereinafter specified or subsequently
amended.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the placing of a permanent
structure or part thereof in a safe condition when the structure or part
thereof is declared to be unsafe by the city provided the necessary repairs
shall not constitute more than 50% of the fair market value of the structure.
The value shall be determined by the County Assessor.
   (E)   When any lawful nonconforming use, structure or land in any district
has been changed to a conforming use, it shall not thereafter be changed to any
nonconforming use.
   (F)   Whenever a lawful nonconforming building, structure, or use shall have
been damaged by fire or other peril to the extent of greater than 50% of its
fair market value, the value as determined by the County Assessor, excluding
land value, the right to continue or replace any nonconforming use is
terminated, except if a valid and complete building permit application has been
submitted to the city within 180 days after the property was damaged in which
case the replacement shall be for a use in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (G)   Whenever a lawful nonconforming use of a building or structure or land
is discontinued for a period of 12 months, any future use of the building or
structure or land shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   Normal maintenance of a building or other structure containing or
related to a lawful nonconforming use is permitted, including necessary non-
structural repairs and incidental alterations which do not expand, enlarge,
increase, extend or intensify the nonconforming use.
   (I)   A lawful nonconforming use may be changed only to a use of the same or
more restricted classification, and not to another nonconforming use.
   (J)   A lot or parcel of land that is nonconforming and that is not improved
with a principal use is not entitled to be developed with a principal use if it
has been in common ownership with adjacent land, including land that is across
a street, or if it has been part of a larger parcel of land, at any time after
adoption of the standard that causes the lot to be nonconforming.
(Prior Code, § 601.05) (Am. Ord. 2013-03, passed 2-11-2013)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.06 LOT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A lot or parcel of land for which a deed has been recorded in the
office of the Chisago County register of deeds upon, or prior to the effective
date of this chapter, shall be deemed a buildable lot provided it has frontage
on a public right-of-way and the space requirements for the district in which
it is located can be maintained or adjusted to conform as follows:
      A lot or parcel of land of record upon the effective date of this chapter
which is in a residential district and which does not meet the requirements of
this chapter as to area, width or other open space, may be utilized for single-
family detached dwelling purposes provided the measurements of the area, width
or open space is within 60% of the requirements of this chapter; but the lot or
parcel shall not be more intensively developed.
   (B)   No building shall be converted to as to conflict with, or further
conflict with the lot size requirements of the district in which the building
is located.
   (C)   Lot width shall be measured within the buildable area of the lot at
the setback line.
   (D)   In areas not served by public water and sewer disposal systems, soil
tests may be required to ensure the sanitary function of private on-site
systems. If tests indicate that the soils are not adequate, the size of the lot
area will be increased in lot area until the size is deemed adequate.
   (E)   Public right-of-ways are a part of the buildable lot area and shall be
included as part of the minimum lot area required.
   (F)   Through lots in any district shall have a required front yard on each
street.
   (G)   Requests for building on a nonconforming lot shall be accompanied by a
site plan locating the proposed well and septic tank and those of abutting
developed properties. An occupancy permit shall be issued only if the applicant
can demonstrate that no pollution or health hazard will result.
   (H)   Excavation, construction sheds and stock piling of construction
equipment and materials incidental to construction on the premises is permitted
providing the activities are of a temporary nature.
   (I)   Except in the case of operating farms not more than one principal
building shall be located on a lot.
   (K)   Accessory buildings shall be ten feet or more from all lot lines of
adjoining lots and shall be considered attached to the principal building for
the purpose of establishing required yards unless six feet or more from the
principal building.
(Prior Code, § 601.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.07 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In all residences, the ground floor area in square feet developed on a
lot shall not be less than 750 square feet.
   (B)   Farm buildings shall not exceed 50 feet in height and residential
buildings shall not exceed 35 feet in height, except as shall be permitted by
conditional use permit granted by the Council determining that the structure
would not be dangerous and would not adversely affect adjoining or adjacent
property.
   (C)   An accessory structure or building shall only be constructed on a lot
prior to the time of construction of the principal building to which it is
accessory with the following requirements via interim use permit:
      (1)   Located in the R-2 District.
      (2)   Proof of building permit completion for the primary structure.
      (3)   No sewer and water may be added to the accessory structure prior to
the completion of the primary structure.
   (D)   No accessory building shall exceed the height of the principal
building. However, in no case shall the accessory building exceed 15 feet in
height, unless a variance therefor is obtained.
(Prior Code, § 601.07) (Am. Ord. 2022-06, passed 11-14-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.08 REQUIRED YARDS AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   No yard or other open space shall be reduced in area or dimension so
as to make the yard or other open space less than the minimum required by this
chapter, and if the existing yard or other open space as existing is less than
the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced.
   (B)   No required yard or other open space allocated to a building or
dwelling group shall be used to satisfy minimum lot area requirements for any
other building.
   (C)   The following shall not be considered to be encroachments on yard and
setback requirements: chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters,
lintels, ornamental features, cornices, eaves, gutters and the like, provided
they do not extend more than 1-1/2 feet into a yard.
(Prior Code, § 601.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.09 TRAFFIC VISIBILITY.
   No fences, structures or plantings exceeding 30 inches in height above the
center grade level of the street which obstruct visibility shall be permitted
within the required front yard setback on a corner lot.
(Prior Code, § 601.09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.10 FARMING OPERATIONS.
   All farms in existence upon the effective date of this chapter and all farms
which are brought into the city by annexation shall be a permitted use where
the operator can conduct a farming operation. However, all regulations
contained herein and other city ordinances as in effect shall apply to all
changes of the farming operation which will cause all or a part of the area to
become more intensively used or more urban in character.
(Prior Code, § 601.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.11 ESSENTIAL SERVICES AND PUBLIC FACILITIES.
   Essential services and public facilities shall be permitted as authorized
and regulated by state law and ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 601.11)
§ 154.12 LAND RECLAMATION.
   Under this chapter, land reclamation is the reclaiming of land by depositing
of material so as to elevate the grade. Land reclamation shall be permitted
only by conditional use permit in all districts. Any lot or parcel upon which
200 cubic yards or more to fill is to be deposited shall be land reclamation.
(Prior Code, § 601.12)
§ 154.13 RELOCATED STRUCTURES.
   Before any structure or house is moved onto a lot, the Planning Commission
shall report to the Council whether the structure will be compatible with other
development in the area. If the Council shall find that a structure would
depreciate the area into which it is moved, the Council may withhold issuance
of a conditional use permit for relocation. The applicant shall submit
photographs taken from two or more angles of the structure to be moved and
photos of the lot on which the structure is to be located together with photos
of adjacent lots and structures. These requirements do not apply to
construction sheds or other temporary structures to be located on a lot for 12
months or less.
(Prior Code, § 601.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.14 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   District classifications. For the purpose of this chapter, the city is
divided into the following zoning districts.
 
R-1 Urban Residential District
R-2 Rural Residential District
R-3 Multiple Residential District
B   General Business District
CI  Commercial-Industrial District
I   Industrial District
 
   (B)    Zoning map. The City of Harris zoning map, dated May, 2006, is
adopted as the official zoning map. A copy of the official map shall be kept at
the Harris City Hall and may be inspected during normal business hours.
   (C)   R-1 Urban Residential District (municipal sewer and water required).
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Single-family detached dwellings.
         (b)   Day care/group homes required in M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 7, as it
may be amended from time to time.
         (c)   Public parks and public recreation facilities.
         (d)   City buildings, facilities and services.
      (2)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   Residential attached or detached private garage.
         (b)   Decks, patios, swimming pools, fences, garden sheds.
         (c)   Home occupations.
         (d)   Accessory apartments.
      (3)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Government offices, libraries, and service centers.
         (b)   Schools and churches.
         (c)   Medical clinics and commercial day care facilities.
         (d)   Golf courses.
      (4)   Interim uses. Accessory building used for a home occupation.
      (5)   Lot dimensional standards.
 
Minimum Lot Area  15,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width 100 feet
Minimum Lot Depth 150 feet
 
      (6)   Yard area/setback requirements.
 
Front Yard/Street Access 30 feet principal and accessory
Side Yard                ten feet principal and accessory
Rear Yard                30 feet principal; ten feet accessory
Lot Coverage             25%
 
   (D)   R-2 Rural Residential District (private sewer and water required).
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Single-family detached dwellings.
         (b)   Day care/group homes required in M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 7, as it
may be amended from time to time.
         (c)   Public parks and public recreation facilities.
         (d)   City buildings, facilities and services.
         (e)   Rural agriculture.
      (2)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   Residential attached or detached private garage.
         (b)   Decks, patios, swimming pools, fences, garden sheds.
         (c)   Home occupations.
         (d)   Seasonal road-side stands for the sale of produce raised on
premises.
         (e)   Accessory apartments.
      (3)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Government offices, libraries, and service centers.
         (b)   Schools and churches.
         (c)   Medical clinics and commercial day care facilities.
         (d)   Golf courses.
         (e)   Plant nurseries and greenhouses.
         (f)   Cemeteries.
         (g)   Animal kennels.
         (h)   Storage facilities.
      (4)   Interim uses.
         (a)   Commercial wireless telecommunications services, including
towers and antennae, when tower height exceeds 35 feet, subject to the
requirements of §
154.24.
         (b)   Accessory building used for a home occupation.
         (c)   Accessory structure prior to completion of primary structure.
         (d)   Mineral extraction. The removal of minerals from the ground and
off the site, subject to the requirements of
Ch. 155 of this code.
      (5)   Lot dimensional standards.
 
Minimum Lot Area  five acres
Minimum Lot Width 300 feet
Minimum Lot Depth 450 feet
 
      (6)   Yard area/setback requirements.
Front Yard/State Highway*     125 feet from centerline - principal and
                              accessory
Front Yard/County Highway*    120 feet from centerline - principal and
                              accessory
Front Yard/Township Road*     83 feet from centerline - principal and accessory
Front Yard (no road frontage) 50 feet from property line
Side Yard                     30 feet - principal and accessory
Rear Yard                     30 feet - principal and accessory
Lot Coverage                  25%
* Minimum setbacks shall equal the greater of 50 feet from registered road
right-of-way or easement or the distance from road centerline
 
   (E)   R-3 Multiple Residential District (municipal sewer and water
required).
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Single-family attached dwellings.
         (b)   Multiple-family dwellings.
         (c)   Assisted care residential facilities.
         (d)   Day care/group homes required in M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 8, as it
may be amended from time to time.
         (e)   Public parks and public recreation facilities.
         (f)   City buildings, facilities and services.
      (2)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   Residential attached or detached private garages.
         (b)   Decks, patios, swimming pools, fences, garden sheds.
         (c)   Home occupations.
         (d)   Association-owned residential recreation facilities and similar
common area or private facilities and amenities.
         (e)   Accessory apartments.
      (3)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Government offices, libraries, and service centers.
         (b)   Schools and churches.
         (c)   Hospitals, medical clinics, and commercial day care facilities.
         (d)   Private recreational facilities.
      (4)   Interim uses. None assigned at this time.
      (5)   Lot dimensional standards.
 
Minimum Lot Area  Duplex - 7500 square feet/unit
                 Attached single-family - 6000 square feet/unit
                 Multiple-family - 2720 square feet/unit
Minimum Lot Width Duplex - 75 feet/unit
                 Other attached - 50 feet/unit
                 Multiple-family - 200 feet
 
      (6)   Yard area/setback requirements (principal and accessory
structures).
Front Yard/Street Access 30 feet
Side Yard - Duplex       ten feet
Side Yard - Attached     15 feet
Side Yard - Multiple     30 feet
Rear Yard                30 feet
Lot Coverage - Duplex    30%
Lot Coverage - Attached  40%
Lot Coverage - Multiple  75%
 
      (7)   Building separation. In developments with common areas and lot
lines configured along common walls between attached units, or in developments
with more than one principal structure on a lot, the minimum separation between
buildings shall be 30 feet or the height of the building, whichever is greater.
   (F)   B General Business District.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Retail sales conducted completely within principal structure.
         (b)   Gasoline stations and convenience goods sales.
         (c)   Restaurants and coffee shops, including drive-through
facilities.
         (d)   General and professional offices.
         (e)   Medical clinics and facilities.
         (f)   Financial institutions.
         (g)   Existing single-family detached homes as of December 11, 2017.
         (h)   On-sale establishments.
      (2)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   Required off-street parking.
         (b)   Authorized signage.
         (c)   Authorized outdoor display of merchandise.
      (3)   Conditional uses.
         (a)   Drive-through restaurants.
         (b)   Motion picture theaters.
         (c)   Motels.
         (d)   Repair and service businesses.
         (e)   New automobile sales.
         (f)   Used automobile sales.
         (g)   Outdoor storage as accessory use.
         (h)   Recreation vehicle sales and service.
         (i)   Boats and recreational equipment sales and service.
         (j)   Utility trailer sales and service.
      (4)   Interim uses.
         (a)   Outdoor storage.
         (b)   Mineral extraction. The removal of minerals from the ground and
off the site, subject to the requirements of
Ch. 155 of this code.
      (5)   Lot dimensional standards.
 
Minimum Lot Area  Rural (private utilities) - two acres
                 Urban (public utilities) - 20,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width Rural - 220 feet
                 Urban - 100 feet
 
      (6)   Yard area/setback requirements (principal and accessory
structures).
Rural
Front Yard/State Highway*     125 feet from centerline
Front Yard/County Highway*    120 feet from centerline
Front Yard/Township Road*     83 feet from centerline
Front Yard (no road frontage) 50 feet from property line
Side Yard                     20 feet
Rear Yard                     30 feet
Lot coverage                  50%
* Minimum setbacks shall equal the greater of 50 feet from registered road
right-of-way or easement or the distance from road centerline
Urban
Front Yard/Street Access      30 feet
Side Yard                     ten feet
Rear Yard                     20 feet
Lot coverage                  75%
 
   (G)   CI Commercial-Industrial District.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   Retail sales conducted completely within principal structure.
         (b)   Gasoline stations and convenience goods sales.
         (c)   Restaurants and coffee shops, including drive-through
facilities.
         (d)   General and professional offices.
         (e)   Medical clinics and facilities.
         (f)   Financial institutions.
         (g)   New and used automobile sales, body shops, and sandblasting.
         (h)   Recreational and non-recreational vehicle sales and service,
including boats and recreational equipment.
         (i)   Welding and machine shops not to exceed 8,000 square feet.
         (j)   Cabinet shops and sales not to exceed 8,000 square feet.
         (k)   Utility trailer sales and service.
         (l)   Vehicle and equipment sales, service, rental, and repair.
         (m)   Well and irrigation installation, sales, and service.
      (2)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   Required off-street parking.
         (b)   Authorized signage.
         (c)   Authorized outdoor display of merchandise.
      (3)   Conditional uses. Domesticated animal kennels/grooming and boarding
(not to include breeding).
      (4)   Interim uses. None assigned at this time.
      (5)   Lot dimensional standards.
 
Minimum lot area  Rural (private utilities) - 2 acres
                  Urban (public utilities) - 20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width Rural - 220 feet
                  Urban - 100 feet
 
      (6)   Yard area/setback requirements (principal and accessory
structures).
   Rural
Front yard/state highway*   125 feet from centerline
Front yard/county highway*  120 feet from centerline
Front yard/township road*   83 feet from centerline
Front yard/no road frontage 50 feet from property line
Side yard                   20 feet
Rear yard                   30 feet
Lot coverage                50%
   Urban
Front yard/street access    30 feet
Side yard                   10 feet
Rear yard                   20 feet
Lot coverage                75%
* Minimum setbacks shall equal the greater of 50 feet from the registered road
right-of-way or easement or the distance from road centerline
 
   (H)   I Industrial District.
      (1)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   New and used automobile sales.
         (b)   Recreation vehicle sales and service.
         (c)   Boats and recreational equipment sales and service.
         (d)   Contractor yards and offices.
         (e)   Lumberyards.
         (f)   Welding shops.
         (g)   Cabinet shops and sales.
         (h)   Utility trailer sales and service.
         (i)   Full service gasoline stations and truck stops.
         (j)   Implement, tractor-trailer, and construction equipment sales and
service.
         (k)   Mini storage facilities.
         (l)    Adult establishments subject to the requirements of
Ch. 117 of this code.
         (m)   Repair and service businesses.
      (2)   Accessory uses.
         (a)   Required off-street parking.
         (b)   Authorized signage.
         (c)   Authorized outdoor storage and display.
      (3)   Conditional uses. 
         (a)   Warehousing and distribution facilities.
         (b)   Auction facilities.
         (c)   Recycling facilities.
      (4)   Interim uses. None assigned at this time.
      (5)   Lot dimensional standards.
 
Minimum Lot Area  Rural (private utilities) - two acres
                 Urban (public utilities) - 20,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width Rural - 220 feet
                 Urban - 100 feet
 
      (6)   Yard area/setback requirements (principal and accessory
structures).
Rural
Front Yard/State Highway*     125 feet from centerline
Front Yard/County Highway*    120 feet from centerline
Front Yard/Township Road*     83 feet from centerline
Front Yard (no road frontage) 50 feet from property line
Side Yard                     30 feet
Rear Yard                     30 feet
Lot coverage                  50%
* Minimum setbacks shall equal the greater of 50 feet from registered road
right-of-way or easement or the distance from road centerline
 
 
Urban
Front Yard/Street Access 30 feet
Side Yard                30 feet
Rear Yard                30 feet
Lot coverage             75%
 
      (7)   Location of adult establishments. New establishments. Adult
establishments as defined by Ch. 117 of this code shall be located only in the
district zoned Industrial and shall be located at least 500 radial feet from
another adult use and:
         (a)   At least 500 radial feet as measured in a straight line from the
closest point of the principal building on the property upon which the adult
establishment is located, to the property line of: residentially zoned
property; a licensed day care center; a public park; the B General Business
District; or a community center; and
         (b)   At least 1,500 radial feet as measured in a straight line from
the closest point of the principal building on the property upon which the
adult establishment is located, to the property line of: a public or private
educational facility classified as an elementary, junior high, middle school,
or senior high or place of worship.
   (I)   Uses not provided for.
      (1)   Whenever in any district a use is neither specifically permitted
nor denied, the Planning Commission shall determine whether a building permit
for a particular use shall be issued.
      (2)   It shall be issued if the use is generally of the same nature as
permitted uses, and shall be denied if it is not so similar.
   (J)   DO Downtown Overlay District.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   To encourage mixed use projects that combine residential with
nonresidential uses in the same building or building site area as a means to
create an active street life and enhance the vitality of businesses;
         (b)   To provide a meaningful blend of residential and nonresidential
uses that enhances and builds upon the city’s commercial base;
         (c)   To encourage consolidation of small parcels into viable, block-
size mixed use development in designated areas;
         (d)   To ensure on-site compatibility of residential and non-
residential uses; and
         (e)   To ensure compatibility of mixed use projects with surrounding
uses and development patterns.
      (2)   Permitted uses.
         (a)   All mixed use development in accordance with the provisions of
this section requires site plan review pursuant to the standards of this
chapter. Site plans shall be subject to Planning Commission review and
approval.
         (b)   Property may be developed solely for uses permitted or
conditionally permitted, other than outdoor storage, in accordance with the
provisions of the underlying zoning district.
            1.   If developed in accordance with the provisions of the
underlying zoning district, site plan review shall not be required for such
development unless required by another provision of this chapter.
            2.   If developed solely for mixed use residential purposes,
development shall be in accordance with the provisions of this chapter for
residential development and site plan review shall be required.
         (c)   If property is developed with a mix of residential and
nonresidential uses within the same project area in accordance with the
provisions of this section:
            1.   Residential. Multiple-family dwellings.
            2.   General business.
               a.   Retail sales conducted completely within principal
structure.
               b.   Restaurants and coffee shops.
               c.   General and professional offices.
               d.   Medical clinics and facilities.
               e.   Financial institutions.
               f.   On-sale establishments.
      (3)   Building regulations.
         (a)   Maximum building height. The following height standards apply to
individual buildings within a project area: 40 feet, with an additional five
feet for architectural projections.
         (b)   Yards. For mixed use projects, setbacks are calculated from the
project boundaries and not from individual units or buildings within the
development.
            1.   Front yard setback. Five feet from the public right-of-way for
vertical developments.
            2.   Side yard setback.
               a.   A minimum of ten feet when the property directly abuts
parcels zoned R-1.
               b.   A minimum of five feet when the property does not directly
abut parcels zoned R-1.
            3.   Rear yard setback.
               a.   A minimum of ten feet when the property directly abuts
parcels zoned R-1.
               b.   A minimum of five feet when the property does not directly
abut parcels zoned R-1 unless the property is a corner lot, in which case the
street side must be a minimum of ten feet.
      (4)   Design principles.
         (a)   Site design. The following principles intend to establish an
engaging street edge defined by the orientation and placement of buildings
fronting major streets.
            1.   Building orientation. Buildings and major pedestrian entrances
should be oriented toward centers of activity, such as the primary street
frontage.
            2.   All primary ground-floor common entries or individual dwelling
unit entries fronting on streets should be oriented to the street, not to the
interior or to a parking lot. Entrances at building corners may be used to
satisfy this requirement.
         (b)   Building facade. The building placement should enforce a
continuous street edge establishing a strong pedestrian corridor.
         (c)   Architecture. The following principles intend to promote quality
design appearance and visual interest.
            1.   Architectural styles and scale. Building design should
incorporate an architectural style and scale that is compatible with nearby
uses, provided such uses are similar to uses permitted by this chapter.
Architectural details may draw upon locally historic buildings or other nearby
features that contribute to the aesthetic ambience of the immediate area;
            2.   Siding materials. Siding should be of high quality materials
such as brick and stone that weather well over time. Materials and colors
should be compatible with the architectural style. Plain concrete block, plain
concrete, plywood, sheet pressboard, vinyl, or similar siding materials are
strongly discouraged;
            3.   Architectural features are encouraged to create visual
interest. The architectural details listed below should adhere to the following
guidelines:
               a.   The following architectural projections may encroach into
the required setback by up to 18 inches: bays, dormer windows, un-roofed
porches, and appendages such as water tables, sills, capitals, and bases;
               b.   Balconies and porches are encouraged to create distinction
between units;
               c.   Canopies should be limited in width and supporting posts
should not be placed within the public right-of-way;
               d.   Trim detail on rooflines, porches, windows, and doors on
street-facing elevations are encouraged;
            4.   Window placement should reflect the desired exposure
appropriate for the respective use. For commercial uses, large windows should
front onto major pedestrian throughways to promote exposure and visibility.
         (d)   Streetscape. The following streetscape elements augment
architectural styles of the area and promote pedestrian activity. These
interactive elements enhance usable pedestrian space and decrease the
possibility of dead space.
            1.   Landscaping is encouraged and should be well maintained and
complement the adjacent project. Landscaping should be selected at a scale that
is consistent with the building site;
            2.   Street landscaping should be appropriate for sidewalk
environments to limit the potential of root systems to affect the adjacent
sidewalks;
            3.   Landscaping should not interfere with pedestrian movement or
impede the visibility of business and signage;
            4.   Furniture. Benches, seating areas, kiosks, and shade
structures should be incorporated as amenities for pedestrians.
               a.   Furnishings should be placed where pedestrian traffic,
viewsheds, or building ingress and egress will not be obstructed;
               b.   Furnishings should be constructed of durable, high quality
materials that can withstand the elements without showing wear.
         (e)   Walls, fences, and gates should be used to identify separate
areas and provide needed privacy and security.
            1.   Walls, fences, and gates should appear consistent in style and
material, complementing the surrounding architectural styles;
            2.   Landscaping elements should be densely planted and layered to
provide screening. Vines and trellises are encouraged to help soften hard edges
and screen walls from view.
         (f)   Signage should be used to identify places, provide direction,
and advertise businesses. Along with communicating information, signage should
add to the character of each project and reinforce a sense of place.
            1.   Signs shall consist of high quality materials and color
palettes that reflect the architectural themes of the surrounding area;
            2.   Location and placement of signs should not obstruct pedestrian
or vehicular movement.
(Prior Code, § 601.15) (Am. Ord., passed - -2000; Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 6-
27-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2007-5-14, passed 5-14-2007; Am.
Ord. 2010-02, passed 2-8-2010; Am. Ord. 154, passed 9-27-2010; Am. Ord. 2011-
03, passed 6-13-2011; Am. Ord. 2012-05, passed 4-9-2012; Am. Ord. 2014-07,
passed 4-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2015-03, passed 11-9-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-03, passed
4-11-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-04, passed 4-11-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-05, passed 6-13-
2016; Am. Ord. 2016-08, passed 10-17-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-09, passed 10-17-2016;
Am. Ord. 2017-03, passed 9-11-2017; Am. Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-11-2017; Am.
Ord. 2017-06, passed 12-11-2017; Am. Ord. 2019-01, passed 9-9-2019; Am. Ord.
2019-02, passed 12-11-2019; Am. Ord. 2020-03, passed 6-8-2020; Am. Ord. 2021-
02, passed 5-10-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-03, passed 8-15-2022; Am. Ord. 2022-06,
passed 11-14-2022; Am. Ord. 2023-02, passed 3-13-2023; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed
3-13-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.15 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The guiding of urban development so as to bring about a
compatible relationship of uses depends upon certain standards being
maintained. Permitted uses, uses by conditional permit and accessory uses in
the various districts shall conform to the following standards.
   (B)   Noise. Any use established shall be so operated that no noise
resulting from the use is perceptible beyond the boundaries of the lot line of
the site on which the use is located. This standard shall not apply to
incidental traffic, parking, loading, construction or maintenance operations.
   (C)   Smoke and particulate matter. Any use established, enlarged or
remodeled after the effective date of this chapter shall be so operated as to
control the emission of smoke or particulate matter to the degree that it is
not detrimental to or shall endanger the public health, safety, comfort or
general welfare of the public. For purpose of determining when the degree of
smoke is unsatisfactory, the Ringelmann Chart published and used by the United
States Bureau of Mines shall be employed. The emission of smoke shall not be of
a density greater than No. 2 in the Ringelmann Chart.
   (D)   Toxic or noxious matter. Any use established shall be so operated as
not to discharge across the boundaries of the lot or through percolation into
the subsoil beyond the boundaries, of the lot wherein the use is located, toxic
or noxious matter in the concentration as to be detectable or to endanger the
public health, safety, comfort, or welfare, or cause injury or damage to
property or business.
   (E)   Odors. Any use established, enlarged or remodeled shall be so operated
as to prevent the emission of odorous matter in the quantities as to be readily
detectable at any point beyond the lot line of the site on which the use is
located.
   (F)   Vibration. Any use creating periodic earth-shaking vibrations, that
may be created from a drop forge, shall be prohibited if the vibrations are
perceptible beyond the lot line of the site on which the use is located. This
standard shall not apply to vibrations created during the process of
construction.
   (G)   Glare or heat. Any use requiring an operation producing an intense
heat or light transmission shall be performed with the necessary shielding to
prevent the heat or light from being detectable at the lot line of the site on
which the use is located.
   (H)   Explosives. Any use requiring the storage, utilization or
manufacturing of products governed by Chapter 118 shall be located not less
than 400 feet from an R District line.
   (I)   Waste material. Waste material shall not be washed into the public
storm sewer system nor the sanitary sewer system without first having received
a permit to do so from the city. If the permit is not granted, a method of
disposal shall be devised which will not require continuous land acquisition
for permanent operation and will not cause a detrimental effect to the adjacent
land. Should the waste be of a solid form rather than fluid, the storage area
shall be so located and fenced as to be removed from public view.
   (J)   Visual. Where any business or industrial use is adjacent to property
zoned or developed for residential use, that business or industry shall provide
screening along the boundary of the residential property if abutting property
owners petition the Planning Commission for the action and the Commission shall
find the petition to be valid.
   (K)   Dumps and junk yards. Existing and new dumps and junk yards shall be
adequately screened by fencing or appropriate landscaping when visible from any
highway.
   (L)   General industry uses. General industry uses may be excepted from the
performance standards.
(Prior Code, § 601.16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.16 SIGNS.
   (A)   Signs in all districts. Nameplate and business signs are a permitted
accessory use in all use districts subject to the following regulations.
      (1)   Signs are prohibited within the public right-of-way or easements
except that the City Council may grant a conditional permit to locate signs and
decorations on or within the right-of-way for a specified time not to exceed 60
days.
      (2)   Illuminated signs or flashing signs shall not be permitted within
the residential districts.
      (3)   Illuminated signs or devices giving off an intermittent or rotating
beam consisting of a collection or concentration of rays of light shall not be
permitted in any district.
      (4)   For purpose of selling, renting or leasing property, a sign not in
excess of 25 square feet per surface may be placed within the front yard of the
property to be sold or leased. The signs shall not be less than 15 feet from
the right-of-way line unless flat against the structure.
      (5)   For purpose of selling or promoting a residential project (ten or
more units), a commercial area (three acres or more) or an industrial area (ten
acres or more), one sign not to exceed 240 feet of surface may be erected upon
the project site. The sign shall not remain after 90% of the project is
developed.
      (6)   Signs existing on the effective date of this chapter which do not
conform to the regulations set forth are a nonconforming use and must be
brought into conformity within 15 months from the date of this chapter.
      (7)   No sign shall be erected that, by reason of position, shape or
color would interfere in any way with the proper functioning or purpose of a
traffic sign or signal.
      (8)   Signs shall not be painted directly on the outside wall of a
building, nor be painted on a fence, rocks or similar structure or feature in
any district. Paper and similar signs shall not be attached directly to a
building wall by an adhesive or similar means.
      (9)   No advertising signs shall be located within 200 feet of the
intersection of right-of-way lines of township, county and state roads and
highways.
      (10)   No advertising signs shall be permitted in residential or scenic
areas.
      (11)   The name and address of the owner shall appear on the surface of
the advertising sign or billboard.
      (12)   Any advertising sign or billboard which is not kept in a
reasonable state of repair shall be removed by the City of Harris after notice
to the owner of the sign or billboard and like notice to the property owner and
a hearing thereon.
   (B)   Permitted signs in R-1 and R-2 Districts.
      (1)   One nameplate sign for each dwelling, not to exceed one square foot
in area per sign.
      (2)   One nameplate sign for each dwelling group of three or more units
not to exceed three square feet in area per sign.
   (C)   Permitted signs in B Districts. Nameplate, business and advertising
signs are permitted subject to the following.
      (1)   The aggregate square footage of sign space per lot shall not exceed
the sum of two square feet per front foot of building, plus one square foot for
each front foot of lot not occupied by the building which fronts on a public
right-of-way 50 feet or more in width.
      (2)   The least width of a lot for purposes of this chapter shall be the
front.
      (3)   No individual sign surface shall exceed 100 square feet.
   (D)   Permitted signs in I Districts. Nameplate signs, business signs, and
advertising signs shall be permitted, provided:
      (1)   That no sign in an I District shall be located nearer than 250 feet
from a residential dwelling; and
      (2)   That the aggregate square footage of sign space per lot shall not
exceed the sum of four square feet per front of building, plus one square foot
per front foot of property not occupied by a building. No individual sign
surface shall exceed 250 square feet except advertising signs. Advertising
signs permitted as an accessory shall not exceed 250 square feet of surface.
Advertising signs permitted as a principal use shall not exceed 450 square feet
per lot and the distance between the signs on the same side of the right-of-way
shall be no less than 660 feet.
(Prior Code, § 601.17) (Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 6-27-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.17 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   When applying for a building permit in all districts for a new
structure, the enlarging of a structure or a new or enlarged use of a parcel of
land, the application shall be accompanied by a site plan drawn to scale and
dimensioned indicating the location of off-street parking and loading spaces in
compliance with the following requirements.
      (2)   Individual parking spaces shall be no smaller than ten feet by 20
feet.
 
District     Off-Street Parking Spaces Required
R-1 District two per dwelling unit
R-2 District one per dwelling unit
B District   one per 200 square feet of building area
I District   One for every two employees, or one for each 1,000 square feet of
             building area, whichever is greater
 
   (B)   Miscellaneous uses.
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Parking Spaces Required
                                        At least one parking space for each
Hotel or Apartment Hotel                rental unit provided in the design of
                                        the building
Motel, Tourist Home, Motor Hotel        At least one space for each dwelling
                                        unit or lodging room
                                        At least one parking space for each
School, Elementary and Junior High      classroom plus one additional space for
                                        each 400 student capacity
                                        At least one parking space for each
School, High School through College     seven students based on design
                                        capacity, plus one additional space for
                                        each twoclassrooms
                                        At least one parking space for each 3-
Church, Institution                     1/2 seats based on the design capacity
                                        of the main assembly hall
Theater                                 At least one parking space for each
                                        three seats of design capacity
                                        At least one parking space for each
                                        three hospital beds, plus one space for
Hospital                                each four employees other than doctors,
                                        plus one parking space for each
                                        resident and regular staff doctor
                                        At least one parking space for each six
Sanitarium Convalescent Home, Rest Home beds for which accommodations are
Nursing Home or Institution             offered, plus one parking space for
                                        each two employees on maximum shift
Medical or Dental Clinic                At least three parking spaces for each
                                        staff doctor or dentist
 
Use Parking Spaces Required
Use                                     Parking Spaces Required
                                        At least one parking space for each 15
Drive-in Food Establishment             square feet of gross floor space in
                                        building allocated to drive-in
                                        operation
                                        At least five parking spaces for each
Bowling Alley                           alley, plus additional spaces as may be
                                        required herein for related uses such
                                        as a restaurant
                                        At least one off-street parking space
Motor Fuel Station                      for each employee on maximum shift,
                                        plus two off-street parking spaces for
                                        each service stall
                                        At least seven off-street parking
Retail Store                            spaces for each 1,000 square feet of
                                        gross floor area
Restaurants Cafes, Bars, Taverns, Night At least one space for each three seats
Clubs                                   based on capacity design
Banks, Offices and/or Public Office     At least four parking spaces for each
Buildings                               100 square feet of gross floor area
                                        At least five parking spaces for each
                                        chapel or parlor, plus one parking
Undertaking Establishments              space for each funeral vehicle
                                        maintained on the premises; aisle space
                                        shall also be provided off the street
                                        for making up a funeral procession
                                        At least three spaces for each 1,000
Furniture Store Wholesale Auto Sales,   square feet of gross floor area; open
Repair Shops                            sales lots shall provide 1-1/2 parking
                                        spaces for each employee on maximum
                                        shift, but not less than three spaces
                                        At least one space for each two
Warehouse, Storage, Handling of Bulk    employees on maximum shift, or one for
Goods                                   each 2,000 square feet of gross floor
                                        area, whichever is the larger
 
   (C)   Commercial parking on residential lots. The lot or lots in a
residential zone which are immediately adjacent to a nonresidential use and a
major or through street may be used for a parking lot accessory to a commercial
or industrial use, upon the approval and the issuance of a permit therefor by
the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 601.18) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.18 OFF-STREET LOADING.
   (A)   General. No person or persons may hereafter use, cause, or permit land
to be used within the city for loading or unloading purposes without meeting
the specifications for required off-street loading spaces set forth herein. If
in the application of this section a fractional number is obtained, one loading
space shall be provided for that fraction.
   (B)   Design requirements.
      (1)   All required loading berths shall be off-street and shall be
located on the same lot as the building or use to be served. A loading berth
shall not be located less than 50 feet from the intersection of two street
rights-of-way nor less than 100 feet from the intersection of street rights-of-
way of major thoroughfares, nor less than 50 feet from a residential district
unless the loading berth is enclosed within a building. Loading berths shall
not occupy the required front yard space.
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified, a required loading berth shall not be
less than 12 feet in width, 50 feet in length and 14 feet in height, exclusive
of aisle and maneuvering space.
      (3)   All loading berths and accessways shall be improved with a durable
material to control the dust and drainage according to a plan approved by the
engineer.
      (4)   Any space allocated as a loading berth or maneuvering area shall
not be used for the storage of goods, inoperable vehicles or be included as a
part of the space requirements necessary to meet the off-street parking area.
      (5)   In connection with any structure which is to be erected or
substantially altered, and which requires the receipt or distribution of
materials or merchandise by trucks or similar vehicles, there shall be provided
off-street loading space.
      (6)   Where noise from loading or unloading activity is audible in a
residential district, the activity shall terminate between the hours of 7:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (C)   Required loading spaces.
 
                                       At least one loading berth 25 feet in
                                       length for each building having 1,000 to
Auditorium, Convention Hall, Public    10,000 square feet of floor area; for
Buildings, Hospitals, Schools, Hotels, those buildings having 10,001 square
Sports Arena                           feet of floor space or more, at least
                                       one additional loading berth per 50,000
                                       square feet of floor space
                                       At least one loading berth 25 feet in
                                       length for each building having 6,000
Retail Sales and Service Stores,       square feet of floor area or more plus
Offices                                one additional loading berth for each
                                       additional 25,000 square feet of floor
                                       area
                                       At least one loading berth 50 feet in
                                       length for each building having 3,000
                                       square feet of floor area plus 1 loading
Manufacturing, Fabrication, Processing berth for each additional 25,000 square
and Warehousing                        feet of floor area up to 100,000 square
                                       feet plus one loading berth for each
                                       50,000 square feet of floor area over
                                       the first 100,000 square feet of floor
                                       area
 
(Prior Code, § 601.19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.19 DRIVE-IN BUSINESSES.
   (A)   General. No person shall construct, operate, or maintain a drive-in
business within the city without first obtaining a conditional use permit.
   (B)   Location requirements.
      (1)   No drive-in business shall be located within 500 feet of a public
or parochial school, church, or public recreation area or within 300 feet of a
residential structure.
      (2)   No plan shall be approved which will in any way constitute a hazard
to vehicular or pedestrian circulation. No access drive shall be within 50 feet
of the intersecting street right-of-way.
   (C)   Site requirements. A detailed site development plan must be approved
by the governing body as a part of the conditional use permit. Site plans shall
include provisions for parking and circulation, landscaping, lighting, signs,
building locations and all improvements to be made on the property.
(Prior Code, § 601.20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.20 MOTOR FUEL STATIONS.
   (A)   General provisions. No person shall construct, operate or maintain a
motor fuel station within the city without first obtaining a conditional use
permit.
   (B)   Site requirements.
      (1)   A detailed site development plan must be approved by the governing
body as a part of the conditional use permit.
      (2)   The site plan shall specify location of all structures, islands and
pumps, storage areas outside buildings, parking facilities, lighting, signs,
landscaping and screening treatment, and a surfacing to control dust and
drainage on the site.
   (C)   Setbacks. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in other sections
of this chapter, the following minimum requirements shall be observed for yards
and setbacks for motor fuel stations.
 
                                 Side Yard
            Lot width Front yard Adjacent to Adjacent to Rear yard Pump setback
                                 another lot street
Minor motor
fuel        150 feet  60 feet    30 feet     60 feet     30 feet   25 feet
station
Major motor
fuel        200 feet  70 feet    30 feet     60 feet     30 feet   30 feet
station
Truck stop  200 feet  80 feet    60 feet     80 feet     60 feet   30 feet
 
(Prior Code, § 601.21) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.21 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the PUD provisions is to encourage high quality
design standards for development and alternative subdivision design techniques.
      (2)   Dimensional criteria of the City of Harris zoning regulations
districts may be modified or varied for PUD developments in exchange for higher
design standards, site preservation techniques, extraordinary parkland
development, pedestrian circulation, trails linkage to other neighborhoods and
community destinations, and other unique development considerations.
      (3)   PUD review and approval is a discretionary action by the city and
the eligibility of a proposed development as a PUD shall be determined solely
by the city. Proposed variations from the dimensional standards of this chapter
shall only be approved when it is determined by the city that variations are
commensurate with benefits to the planned neighborhood and overall community.
      (4)   A determination shall include but not be limited to the following
considerations:
         (a)   Master site planning and creative design in the proposed
development of the land and uses;
         (b)   Variety in housing styles and housing types and provisions for
life cycle and affordable housing opportunities;
         (c)   Architectural design components and controls for all planned
uses and structures;
         (d)   Protection and incorporation of unique natural features into the
overall planned community;
         (e)   Creation of larger expanses of usable public and private open
spaces, planned recreational facilities, and pedestrian accesses throughout the
proposed development;
         (f)   Landscaping plans for all proposed land uses, public and private
parks, open spaces when appropriate, major transportation corridors, transition
areas between land uses, and within screening and buffering areas;
         (g)   Appropriate screening and buffering of residential uses from
major transportation corridors and dissimilar land uses;
         (h)   Compatibility with the comprehensive plan;
         (i)   Consistency with existing goals and policies of the city;
         (j)   Compatibility with existing and potential development patterns;
         (k)   Appropriate transitions between land uses to ensure
compatibility within and adjacent to the proposed development;
         (l)   Consistency with the general intent of the Harris zoning
regulations and strict compliance with the general provisions and minimum
performance standards of the zoning regulations;
         (m)   Private subdivision covenants necessary to guarantee adherence
to architectural standards, to implement master planning components of the
proposed development, and to satisfy required private and public area
maintenance provisions;
         (n)   Appropriate transportation access, circulation, design and
impact mitigation, including required improvements to adjacent roadways serving
the proposed development; and
         (o)   Financial participation in off-site improvements required to
connect the proposed development to existing and planned neighborhoods and
existing and planned public utility and transportation infrastructure.
   (B)   Permitted uses - Residential PUD (requires public sewer and water).
      (1)   Single-family detached residences and single-family attached
residences and accessory uses.
      (2)   Multiple residential dwellings and accessory uses.
      (3)   Public parks and recreation facilities.
      (4)   Public buildings and facilities.
      (5)   Public and private schools and accessory recreational facilities.
      (6)   Licensed daycare and residential facilities in single-family
attached and single-family detached residential areas consistent with M.S.
Chapter 462.357, Subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (7)   Licensed daycare and residential facilities in multiple residential
areas consistent with M.S. Chapter 462.357, Subd. 8, as it may be amended from
time to time.
      (8)   Residential health care facilities.
      (9)   Home occupations.
      (10)   Other uses specifically permitted in the approval of the PUD.
   (C)   Permitted uses - residential/commercial mixed use PUD (requires public
sewer and water).
      (1)   Single-family detached residences and single-family attached
residences and accessory uses.
      (2)   Multiple residential dwellings and accessory uses.
      (3)   Public parks and recreation facilities.
      (4)   Public buildings and facilities.
      (5)   Public and private schools and accessory recreational facilities.
      (6)   Licensed daycare and residential facilities in single-family
attached and single-family detached residential areas consistent with M.S.
Chapter 462.357, Subd. 7, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (7)   Licensed daycare and residential facilities in multiple residential
areas consistent with M.S. Chapter 462.357, Subd. 8, as it may be amended from
time to time.
      (8)   Residential health care facilities.
      (9)   Home occupations.
      (10)   Neighborhood commercial retail and service uses, not inconsistent
with the comprehensive plan, and not incompatible with area residential land
uses and transportation facilities serving the development, including:
         (a)   Gasoline sales and accessory convenience retail sales;
         (b)   Full service restaurants, cafes, and drive-through restaurants;
         (c)   Off-sale and on-sale liquor;
         (d)   Video rentals and sales;
         (e)   Daycare centers;
         (f)   Dry cleaning, laundry, tailoring, hair salons and similar
household services;
         (g)   Small appliance, electronics, and household item repair and
service and accessory sales conducted wholly within principal structures; and
         (h)   Automobile service and accessory sales conducted wholly within
principal structures.
      (11)   Other uses specifically permitted in the approval of the PUD.
   (D)   Permitted uses - commercial/light industrial mixed use PUD (requires
public sewer and water).
      (1)   Gasoline sales and accessory convenience retail sales.
      (2)   Retail sales and accessory services.
      (3)   Full service restaurants, cafes, and drive-through restaurants.
      (4)   On-sale and off-sale liquor establishments.
      (5)   Family movie theaters.
      (6)   Hotels and motels.
      (7)   Professional offices.
      (8)   Hospitals and medical clinics.
      (9)   Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      (10)   Household service and repair businesses.
      (11)   Vehicle and equipment repair and service.
      (12)   Office/showroom sales and service uses.
      (13)   Building supply centers.
      (14)   Lawn and garden centers.
      (15)   Other uses specifically permitted in the approval of the PUD.
   (E)   Dimensional standards.
      (1)   The dimensional standards applied to lots, uses and structures
within a PUD shall be established in the review and approval process.
      (2)   The city shall have total discretion in establishing dimensional
criteria, and departures from the zoning regulations standards shall be based
upon the level of site plan detail, architectural quality and controls, overall
master planning, utility and roadway capacity, neighborhood and community
benefit, public safety issues, and overall development controls.
   (F)   Special requirements.
      (1)   The minimum site area requirements for a residential or
residential/commercial mixed use PUD is 100 acres.
      (2)   The minimum site area requirements for a commercial/light
industrial mixed use PUD is 20 acres.
      (3)   An increase in the density allowed by the districts of the zoning
regulations for any residential uses shall result in corresponding increase in
the amount or quality of the following.
         (a)   Group usable open space, recreational amenities, and pedestrian
ways.
         (b)   Architectural features, housing styles, and housing variety.
         (c)   Landscaping, screening, and streetscape amenities.
         (d)   Environmental protection and controls.
         (e)   Site design and development control.
      (4)   The city shall determine whether open space provisions and
recreational amenities shall be publicly dedicated or privately owned and
maintained.
      (5)   Private open space and recreation areas and, specific improvements
on public property, such as landscaped medians or subdivision monuments and
design features within public rights-of-way, will require covenants,
restrictions, homeowner association agreements or other acceptable mechanisms
that guarantee perpetual private maintenance of private open spaces, recreation
areas, common areas, and other areas.
      (6)   Residential/commercial mixed use PUDs shall require common or
compatible street landscaping, street lighting, and parking lot lighting
throughout the development. The quality and amount of landscaping, screening,
and buffering between dissimilar uses shall be a major component of all PUDs
and subsequent site plan reviews.
      (7)   Architectural features and controls shall be a major component of
all PUDs and all mixed use PUDs will require compatibility of architectural
features between dissimilar uses.
      (8)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to approve or permit
variations in construction materials, craftsmanship, building codes, electrical
codes, plumbing codes, fire codes, design or construction of public
improvements, which in any way suggest substandard or inferior development or
construction.
   (G)   Process. All PUDs requiring the subdivision of land shall follow the
platting requirements and PUD provisions of the Harris subdivision regulations
and require a conditional use permit (CUP) as provided in the Harris zoning
regulations. Mandatory or discretionary review of the potential environmental
effects of the proposed development may be required prior to the submission of
concept PUD and preliminary plat. A sketch plan PUD/plat review and approval,
concept PUD/preliminary plat review and approval, and final PUD/final plat
review and approval shall occur concurrently as prescribed in the subdivision
regulations.
   (H)   Submittal requirements.
      (1)   A sketch plan shall be prepared with sufficient detail and
information to illustrate the major features of the proposed development and
its eligibility as a PUD.
      (2)   Following sketch plan review and approval by the City Council, PUD
and platting information may be assembled and combined in a single format,
provided the platting submission requirements of the Harris subdivision
regulations and the following minimum information are provided:
         (a)   Written narrative summarizing the proposed development features
and all proposed exceptions to or departures from conventional development
standards;
         (b)   Complete details of the proposed site development, including
locations of buildings, driveways, parking spaces, dimensions of the parking
spaces, dimensions of the lots, lot area and yard dimensions, sidewalks, and
trails;
         (c)   Open space and recreation plans illustrating all public and
private recreational amenities, facilities, and structures, including trails;
         (d)   Circulation plans for proposed pedestrian and vehicle traffic;
         (e)   Detailed plans for landscaping, screening, and buffering;
         (f)   Preliminary architectural plans, including the floor plans and
building elevations of proposed structures;
         (g)   Descriptions for exterior wall finishes proposed for all
principal and accessory structures;
         (h)   Calculations of gross and net residential densities for each
residential product;
         (i)   A two-foot contour map of the existing site, including the
depiction of existing uses and structures, and the delineation of all wetlands,
floodplains, and shoreland areas;
         (j)    A grading plan and erosion control plan consistent with best
management practices must also be submitted;
         (k)   Preliminary covenants and documents for a homeowners
association, condominium association, or other joint maintenance mechanism to
be approved by the city that includes:
            1.   Ownership and membership requirements;
            2.   Organization of the association;
            3.   Time at which the developer turns the association over to the
members;
            4.   Approximate monthly or yearly association fee for members;
            5.   Specific listing of items owned in common, including items
such as roads, recreational facilities, parking, common open spaces, and
utilities, and any public areas subject to association maintenance; and
         (l)   A development agreement shall be entered into with the city to
ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of an approved PUD. The
agreement shall include the uses permitted in the PUD, the details of waivers
or departures from conventional dimensional standards and other ordinance
requirements and all other special conditions and features of the PUD. The
agreement shall include all other standard provisions of development agreements
required by the city to assure ordinance conformance and financial guarantees.
A preliminary deposit and disbursement agreement shall be entered into with the
city to provide security for reimbursement of all city costs incurred in the
preliminary review of the PUD application, including without limitation
engineering, technical, planning, legal and administrative costs. The amount of
security shall be as set forth in the current city fee schedule.
   (I)   Required actions.
      (1)   Sketch plan.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall recommend either approval,
approval with modifications, or denial of the PUD sketch plan.
         (b)   The recommendation shall be based upon the determination that
the proposed development either may qualify as a PUD and appears to be capable
of satisfying the provisions and requirements of the PUD District or the
proposed development does not qualify as a PUD.
         (c)   The City Council shall consider the recommendations of the
Planning Commission and either approve, approve with modifications, or deny the
PUD sketch plan.
         (d)   The action shall be based upon the determination that the
proposed development either may qualify as a PUD and appears to be capable of
satisfying the provisions and requirements of the PUD District or the proposed
development does not qualify as a PUD.
      (2)   Concept PUD/conditional use permit.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall recommend either approval,
approval with modifications, or denial of the concept PUD/CUP.
         (b)   The recommendation shall be based upon the determination that
the proposed development either qualifies as a PUD and will satisfy the
provisions and requirements of the PUD District or the proposed development
does not qualify as a PUD and does not satisfy the provisions and requirements
of the PUD District.
         (c)   Approval of a CUP shall be contingent upon final PUD approval.
         (d)   The City Council shall consider the recommendations of the
Planning Commission and either approve, approve with modifications, or deny the
PUD sketch plan.
         (e)   The action shall be based upon the determination that the
proposed development either qualifies as a PUD and will satisfy the provisions
and requirements of the PUD District or the proposed development does not
satisfy the provisions and requirements of the PUD District and the proposed
development does not qualify as a PUD.
      (3)   Final PUD.
         (a)   A final PUD shall be submitted with the final plat, containing
final development plan details and required modifications. All phased
developments shall require a final PUD submitted with each subsequent final
plat. The final PUD shall contain final architectural plans for all uses and
detailed site plans for all non-single-family detached residential uses. The
final PUD shall not be inconsistent with the approved concept PUD, except as
modified and approved by the city.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall recommend either approval,
approval with modifications, or denial of the final PUD. The recommendation
shall be based upon the determination that the final PUD is consistent with the
approved concept PUD, modified appropriately, or inconsistent with the approved
concept PUD. The City Council shall either approve, approve with modifications,
or deny the final PUD. The action shall be based upon the determination that
the final PUD is consistent with the approved concept PUD, modified
appropriately, or inconsistent with the approved concept PUD.
      (4)   Zoning amendment and zoning map.
         (a)   Upon approval of a PUD and completion of the procedures required
for amending zoning classifications, the land within a PUD may be zoned PUD.
Alternatively, all or portions of a PUD which conform to the district
dimensional standards and district uses of the zoning regulations may be
assigned specific zoning district classifications. The PUD District
classification shall imply that approved PUD uses and dimensional standards are
in conformance with the Harris zoning regulations. Each amendment to the zoning
regulations establishing a PUD District shall include an amendment to the
Harris zoning map, illustrating the amended zoning classification, and an
appendix, illustrating the uses permitted within the development, the amended
dimensional standards for each use, and other performance standards pertinent
to the approved PUD.
         (b)   Subsequent uses and structural improvements within a PUD,
including but not limited to new uses, building additions, and site plan
revisions, shall conform to the approved uses and approved development
standards within the approved PUD. The city may at its discretion interpret new
uses and revisions to be consistent with the approved PUD or at its discretion
may require an amendment to the PUD. Any amendment to a PUD shall follow the
procedures established in this section to review and approve a PUD.
(Prior Code, § 601.22) (Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 6-27-2005) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.22 FENCES.
   (A)   Maximum height. Fences located within required yards shall not exceed
six feet in height in all yards except the front yard when they shall not
exceed 30 inches, except as hereinafter modified.
   (B)   Fences in buildable area. No fence located within the buildable area
of a lot shall exceed the height of the principal structure.
   (C)   Business and industrial fences. Fences in business and industrial
districts may be erected on the lot line to a height of eight feet with a
security area for barbed wire subject to a conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, § 601.23)  (Am. Ord. 2022-07, passed 11-14-2022)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.23 PUBLIC UTILITY SERVICES.
   (A)   Location approval. Public utility services may have an effect on city
planning, and the proposed location of the public utility services shall be
filed with the City Clerk prior to the commencement of any condemnation action
or construction.
   (B)   Utilities not located within highway or street rights-of-way. Public
utility services not located within highway or street rights-of-way shall
follow the following procedure.
      (1)   The owner shall file with the City Clerk the maps indicating the
location, depth if applicable, alignment, and type of service proposed.
      (2)   The maps and accompanying data shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission for review and recommendations regarding the relationship to urban
growth, land uses, highways and recreation and park areas.
      (3)   Following the review, when deemed necessary, or when requested by
the Council, the Planning Commission shall within 30 days of the receipt of the
proposed public utility service make a report of its findings and
recommendations on the proposal and file the report with the City Council.
      (4)   Upon receipt of the report of the Planning Commission on the
proposal, the City Council shall consider the maps and, accompanying data and
indicate to the owner its approval with the conditions or modifications as are
deemed appropriate or necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the public and to achieve the goals of this chapter.
      (5)   Failure by the Council to act on a proposal within 30 days of the
receipt of the report of the Planning Commission shall constitute approval of
the proposal by the City Council.
   (C)   Utilities within highway rights-of-way. An application for a permit
for public utility services located within any city, county, or state highway
rights-of-way shall follow the following procedure.
      (1)   The applicant shall file with the City Clerk in addition to any
filing requirements of the county or state, an application for the permit,
accompanied by maps indicating the locations, depth if applicable, alignment
and type of service proposed.
      (2)   The application and accompanying data shall be reviewed by the city
engineer, who shall file a report of his or her findings and recommendations
with the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Upon a determination by the Planning Commission that the
application is acceptable and in the best interests of the city, the Planning
Commission may issue a permit, with the conditions or modifications thereon as
are deemed appropriate, for the installation or structure of the service
proposed.
      (4)   Upon completion of the installation and construction of the
utility, the applicant or owner of the utility shall file with the City Clerk a
map showing the exact location of the utility or so much thereof as is located
in the city, together with data indicating the depth, height, size, capacity,
and other relevant data required by the Planning Commission.
      (5)   Any addition, construction, or installation of a public utility
service may be undertaken only after consideration has been given to
contemplated widening, regrading or relocation of existing rights-of-way.
   (D)   Existing easements. There shall be no filing or permit requirements
where the utility facilities are to be located on existing easements, or on
customer’s property for the purpose of providing utility service to the
customer provided, that upon completion of and addition to, or extension,
construction or installation of a public utility on existing easements or
customer’s property, the utility shall file with the City Clerk a map showing
the type, size, depth, capacity and location of the addition, extension,
construction or installation.
   (E)   Construction requiring a permit. No construction of utility facilities
requiring a filing for a permit shall be commenced until either official
response has been received from the appropriate authority, or 60 days has
elapsed from the date of filing, which shall constitute approval.
   (F)   Temporary permits or emergency approval. Recognizing that public
utilities services must provide adequate and timely service to the public, and
that emergency situations may occur, the Council may issue temporary permits or
emergency approval for the extension, addition, or construction of utility
facilities when necessary. However, the utility shall immediately proceed to
file or make its application under the appropriate section hereof.
(Prior Code, § 601.24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.24 COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAE.
   (A)   Interim use permit required. An interim use permit (IUP) is required
for the construction or erection of any communications towers. Co-location uses
on existing towers are exempt from the IUP process, but require Planning
Commission and City Council site plan approval.
   (B)   Co-location on existing structures. New towers or antennae must be co-
located on existing structures in the city, unless it can be documented that it
is impractical to co-locate on an existing structure because of technical
performance, system coverage or system capacity an existing structure cannot
support co-location from a structural engineering standpoint or the lease rate
of an existing structure is not RATE REASONABLE.  RATE REASONABLE shall mean
that the co-location lease rate is not more than 150% of the co-location lease
rate for towers within ten miles for which such lease rate information can be
obtained. The determination that co-location on an existing structure is not
practical because of technical performance, system coverage or system capacity
shall be supported by findings from a qualified engineer.
   (C)   Co-location requirements for new towers. New towers shall be designed
and constructed to permit the future co-location of other commercial wireless
telecommunication services. All applications for new towers shall include a
letter of intent committing the tower owner, it successors and assigns, to
allow the shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees in writing to
meet reasonable terms and conditions for shared use. Maximum heights of towers/
antennae and corresponding co-location requirements shall meet the following
standards:
 
Height of Tower/Antenna   Number of Co-location Requirement
Less than 75 feet         No co-location required
75 feet to 100 feet       One additional user accommodated
Over 100 feet to 150 feet Two additional users accommodated
 
   (D)   Tower and antenna design. Towers and antennae shall be located and
designed to blend into the surrounding environment to the maximum extent
possible. Towers shall be of a monopole design unless it is determined that an
alternative design would be appropriate for the particular city to blend into
the particular environment.
   (E)   Tower setbacks. All towers shall be setback from rights-of-way,
easement boundaries, or property lines at a distance equal to the height of the
towers and antenna. The setbacks may be reduced to a distance agreed upon by
the city, if the tower applicant furnishes an registered engineer's
certification that the tower is designed to collapse or fall within a distance
or zone shorter than the total tower height. The city may waive or modify
setback requirements for antennae proposed to be co-located on existing towers
or structures.
   (F)   Lighting. Towers shall not be illuminated unless required by a state
or federal agency.
   (G)   Security. The site area for new or modified commercial wireless
telecommunications services towers shall be totally fenced in to discourage
access by unauthorized persons. The city shall review and approve or modify all
plans for fencing and security measures.
   (H)   Accessory structures. The applicant shall submit site plans,
elevations and construction details for all towers, antennae and accessory
structures to be located on a site. All equipment must be enclosed within a
building. The city may require that any accessory structures be designed
compatible with surrounding structures or natural environment and may require
that landscaping materials be provided to screen accessory structures or
equipment. Co-location users must construct buildings compatible with existing
buildings on the premises.
   (I)   Site access. Site plans shall illustrate existing or proposed driveway
locations, access easements, driveway details, and shall obtain driveway access
permits for all new towers.
   (J)   Signs. Signs, other than warning signs, equipment labels, emergency
information or owner identification, are prohibited on any towers, antennae or
accessory structures or equipment. No permitted signs shall exceed three square
feet in area.
   (K)   Interference. No wireless telecommunications service shall be
permitted that causes any interference with commercial or private use and
enjoyment of other legally operating telecommunications devices, including but
not limited to radios, televisions, personal computers, telephones, personal
communications devices, garage door openers, security systems and other
electronic equipment and devices. An applicant must furnish Minnesota
registered engineer's certification that no such interference will occur or
identify what interference may occur and how the applicant will mitigate any
potential inference that may occur.
   (L)   Construction requirements. All wireless telecommunication towers,
antennae and accessory uses shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with all provisions of this chapter and all applicable state and federal codes.
All plans must be certified by an engineer registered in the State of
Minnesota.
   (M)   Inspection. All towers may be inspected at least once each year by an
official of the city building inspector to determine compliance with original
construction standards. Deviation from original construction for which a permit
is obtained constitutes a violation of this section. Notice of violations will
be sent by registered mail to the owner. The owner will have 30 days from the
date the notification is issued to make repairs. The owner shall notify the
city building inspector that the repairs have been made, and, as soon as
possible thereafter, another inspection will be made and the owner notified of
the results.
   (N)   Abandonment. All towers and antennae not used for a period of 12
consecutive months shall be considered abandoned and shall be removed. The
Interim Use Permit shall identify the term for the wireless telecommunication
towers. Towers and antennae shall be removed within six months of the date of
termination of the Interim Use Permit. In the event any towers and antennae
have not been removed within six months of the termination of the Interim Use
Permit or within 90 days after written notice by the city after abandonment,
the city shall have the right to remove the towers and antennae and assess the
property.
   (O)   Proximity to other towers. Towers 75 feet or taller in overall height
shall not be erected within 2500 feet of any other communications tower
exceeding 75 feet in overall height. It is the intent of this provision to
encourage the co-location of Commercial Wireless Telecommunication Services
facilities on the same tower or existing buildings or other structures thereby
reducing the number of towers in the city.
   (P)   Other requirements. The city may require additional information from
the applicant and impose additional standards and regulations in approving
plans for wireless telecommunications services to ensure and protect the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2007-5-14, passed 5-14-2007)
§ 154.25 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The City Council may appoint a zoning administrator whose term of office
shall be established by resolution of the Council. In the event the Council
refuses or otherwise decides not to appoint a zoning administrator, all duties
of that office shall attach to the office of the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 601.25)
§ 154.26 DUTIES OF THE ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The enforcing officer shall enforce the provisions of this chapter and in
addition thereto and in furtherance thereof he or she shall:
   (A)   Accept applications and issue permits upon the fulfillment of the
requirements necessary thereto, and shall make and maintain records thereof;
   (B)   Inspect or supervise the inspection of buildings and uses of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this chapter;
   (C)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including, but
not limited to all maps, amendments, and conditional uses, variances, appeals
and applications therefor;
   (D)   Receive, file and forward all applications for appeals, variances,
conditional use permits or other matters to the designated official bodies;
   (E)   Institute in the name of the city any appropriate action or proceeding
against the violator of the requirements of this chapter or otherwise to
enforce same;
   (F)   Serve as an ex-officio member of the Planning Commission;
   (G)   Issue orders for the cessation of all work or improvements regulated
by the comprehensive plan of the city to accommodate and regulate development,
and to issue orders for the recommencement of the work or improvements upon the
correction of the limitation of the violation cited;
   (H)   Any and all duties relating to the purposes of this or related
chapters which may be delegated to him or her by the Council; and
   (I)   The enforcing officer may, with the prior approval of the Council,
appoint deputies, who shall have all powers expressly delegated by the
enforcing officer.
(Prior Code, § 601.26)
§ 154.27 APPEALS AND BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Board of Appeals and Adjustments established. The City Council hereby
establishes a Board of Appeals and Adjustments.
   (B)   Duties.
      (1)   The Board of Appeals and Adjustments is authorized to hear appeals
when it is alleged that an administrative decision in the interpretation or
enforcement of this chapter is in error.
      (2)   The Board of Appeals and Adjustments is also authorized to hear
requests for variances from the literal provisions of this chapter in instances
where their strict enforcement would cause undue hardship.
(Prior Code, § 601.27) (Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 6-27-2005)
§ 154.28 VARIANCES.
   (A)   A variance may be granted from the requirements of this chapter
including those placed on nonconformities. A variance is only permitted when it
is in harmony with the general purposes and intent of this chapter and when the
variance is consistent with the comprehensive plan. A variance may be granted
when the applicant establishes that there are practical difficulties in
complying with this chapter. Practical difficulties means that the property
owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable manner not permitted by this
chapter, the plight of the land owner is due to circumstances unique to the
property not created by the landowner, and the variance, if granted, would not
alter the essential character of the locality. Economic considerations alone do
not constitute practical difficulties. Practical difficulties also includes
inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems. Inadequate
access means the failure to achieve reasonable access to direct sunlight, not
optimal or maximal access. Variances must be granted for earth sheltered
construction as defined in state law, when in harmony with this chapter. The
city may impose conditions in granting of a variance. A condition must be
directly related to and must bear a rough proportionality to the impact created
by the variance.
      (1)   Applications provided by the city must be completed in writing
prior to any consideration of variance petitions. Fees for variances are
established by ordinance adopted by the City Council.
      (2)   The Board of Appeals and Adjustments may require the applicant to
provide ten copies of plans, maps, surveys, and the like, as deemed necessary,
to ensure proper review and consideration of variance petitions.
      (3)   After filing an application, the City Clerk shall set a date for a
public hearing before the Board of Appeals and Adjustments. Notice of the
hearing shall be posted and published at least ten days prior to the date of
the hearing, and notice shall be mailed to each property owner within 350 feet
of the property to which the variance relates. Defects in the notice or failure
to notify individual property owners shall not invalidate the proceedings,
provided a good faith effort was made to comply with these provisions.
      (4)   Upon hearing the request, the Board of Appeals and Adjustments
shall either approve or deny the variance and shall state the reasons for the
action. Conditions for approval may be attached to any variance granted.
      (5)   Findings. The Board of Appeals and Adjustments must find as follows
in the granting of a variance from this chapter.
         (a)   Granting a variance will not adversely affect the public health,
welfare and safety and will not be detrimental or injurious to property or
improvements in the neighborhood.
         (b)   Strict interpretation or enforcement would result in a practical
difficulty or unnecessary hardship that is not self created, that is
inconsistent with the intent of this chapter and the comprehensive plan.
         (c)   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applicable to the property, use or facilities that do not apply
generally to other properties in the same district.
         (d)   Granting of the variance will not allow a use which is otherwise
not a permitted use in the zoning district in question.
      (6)   A variance granted but not used shall become void one year after
its effective date.
   (B)   Variance appeal procedures.
      (1)   Within 30 days of the action of the Board of Appeals and
Adjustments, the applicant or an affected property owner may file an appeal to
the City Council to the decision of the Board of Appeals and Adjustments.
      (2)   The City Council shall set a date for a public hearing, within 45
days of receipt of the appeal, to consider and act upon the appeal.
(Prior Code, § 601.28) (Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 6-27-2005; Am. Ord. 2013-03,
passed 2-11-2013)
§ 154.29 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Application. Whenever this chapter requires a conditional use permit,
an application therefor in writing shall be filed with the enforcing officer.
   (B)   Contents of application. The application shall be accompanied by a
site plan of the proposed use showing information as may be necessary or
desirable, including, but not limited to, the following.
      (1)   Site plan drawn to scale showing parcel and building dimensions.
      (2)   Location of all buildings and their square footages, in relation to
the boundaries of the parcel involved.
      (3)   The uses existing on all adjoining properties.
      (4)   Curb cuts, driveways, access roads, parking spaces and off-street
loading areas.
      (5)   Existing topography.
      (6)   Finished grading and drainage plan.
      (7)   The type of business or activity and the proposed number of
employees.
      (8)   Proposed floor plan of any building with use or uses indicated.
      (9)   Existing and proposed sanitary sewer, storm sewer and water plan
with estimated use per day.
      (10)   Soil type and soil limitations for the intended use. If severe
soil limitations for the intended use are noted, a plan or statement indicating
the soil conservation practice or practices to be used to overcome the
limitation shall be made a part of the permit application.
      (11)   A location map showing the general location of the proposed use
within the city.
      (12)   The conditions giving rise to the need for a conditional use
permit, together with the reasons supporting the issuance thereof.
   (C)   Referral to Commission. The application and required information shall
be referred to the Planning Commission for study concerning the effect of the
proposed use on the comprehensive plan and on the character and development of
the neighborhood.
   (D)   Public hearing.
      (1)   A public hearing shall be set before the Planning Commission not
less than ten days before notice of the hearing is published in the city’s
official newspaper.
      (2)   Notice of the hearing shall also be mailed to all property owners
within 350 feet of the property on which the conditional use is proposed.
Defects in the notice or failure to notify individual property owners shall not
validate the proceedings, provided a good faith effort was made to comply with
these provisions.
   (E)   Recommendation of the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission
shall forward its findings/recommendations on the conditional use permit to the
City Council after the public hearing has been held.
   (F)   City Council action.
      (1)   The City Council shall consider the advice and recommendation of
the Planning Commission and the effects of the proposed use upon the health,
safety, and welfare of the city and of the occupants of the immediate
neighborhood.
      (2)   Should the City Council find that the proposed use when conducted
under the specified conditions will not be detrimental to the health, safety,
or general welfare of the community, it may grant a conditional use permit,
specifying the location and the use requested, together with conditions
attached thereto as are deemed appropriate.
   (G)   Periodic review. The City Council may require a periodic review of the
permit and the conditions attached thereto to be made by the enforcing officer.
The City may charge a fee for periodic review as set forth in the current City
Fee Schedule.
   (H)   Revocation. A violation of any condition set forth in a conditional
use permit shall constitute a violation of this code, and constitute grounds
for the immediate termination of the permit.
   (I)   Purpose for which issued.
      (1)   A conditional use permit shall be issued for a particular use of a
structure and/or parcel, and shall not be deemed issued to a particular person
or firm.
      (2)   However, where a conditional use permit is issued based in part or
wholly upon the unique skills or abilities of the applicant, the City Council
may require as a condition of the permit that any transfer of the use or
conveyance of the property upon or in which the use is carried on may be
subject to reasonable, predescribed conditions.
   (J)   Conditional use permit voided. A conditional use permit issued
hereunder shall become void one year after the date upon which it was granted,
unless the permit is fully implemented and the conditions attached thereto
fully met; provided, that the Council may expressly extend the period of time
within which a conditional use permit may be implemented and the conditions met
at the time of issuance of the original conditional use permit, if requested to
do so and the grounds for the request justify an extension.
(Prior Code, § 601.29) (Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 6-27-2005; Am. Ord. 2008-2,
passed - -)
§ 154.30 INTERIM USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Purpose and definition. In addition to the purposes stated in §
154.02 of this chapter, it is intended that the Interim Use Permit procedures
allow flexibility in the use of land or structures in the city when such uses
are not permanent and when such uses meet appropriate conditions and
performance standards that protect the public health, safety, and welfare. An
interim use is a temporary use of property until a particular date, until the
occurrence of a particular event, or until zoning regulations no longer permit
it. The use must cease upon termination of the permit.
   (B)   Application, public hearing, and procedure. The application, public
hearing, notice, and procedural requirements for Interim Use Permits shall be
the same as those for Conditional Use Permits, as provided in §
154.29 of this chapter. If a proposed interim use is not listed as a permitted
interim use in this chapter, a text amendment to this chapter will be required
before an interim use permit may be considered.
   (C)   Termination. All Interim Use Permits shall terminate on the happening
of any of the following events, whichever first occurs:
      (1)   The termination date stated in the permit.
      (2)   A violation of the conditions under which the permit was issued.
   (D)   Standards.
      (1)   The interim use must be allowed in the zoning district where the
property is located.
      (2)   The interim use must meet or exceed the performance standards set
forth in this chapter and other applicable provisions of this code.
      (3)   The interim use must comply with the specific standards for the use
identified in this chapter, and must comply with all conditions of approval,
which shall be included in the Interim Use Permit.
   (E)   Conditions. The city may attach conditions to approval of a permit to
mitigate anticipated adverse impacts associated with the use, to ensure
compliance with the standards of approval, to protect the value of other
property, and to achieve the goals and policies of the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 2007-5-14, passed 5-14-2007)
§ 154.31 AMENDING OF ZONING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Authority. The provisions of this chapter may be amended by the City
Council.
   (B)   Initiation for amendment.
      (1)   The City Council or the Planning Commission may, upon their own
motion, initiate an amendment to the text of this chapter or the official map
of the city.
      (2)   Any person owning real estate may petition the Council to amend the
text of this chapter or amend the official map of the city in a manner as to
affect his or her real estate or a larger parcel which includes his or her real
estate.
   (C)   Application for amendment.
      (1)   All petitions or requests for amendments shall be filed with the
enforcing officer.
      (2)   When the application involves the changing of zoning districts and
boundaries thereof, it shall be accompanied by a map or plat showing the lands
proposed to be changed, type of soil, and all lands and uses made thereof
within 200 feet of the boundaries of the property proposed to be rezoned,
together with a certified list of the names and addresses of the owners of the
land in the entire area mentioned.
   (D)   Referral to the Planning Commission. All petitions or requests for
amendments shall be referred to the Planning Commission which shall hold a
public hearing to consider the proposed amendment.
   (E)   Notice. The enforcing officer shall cause to be published a notice of
public hearing in the official newspaper of the city at least ten days but not
more than 30 days prior to the date of the hearing.
   (F)   Action by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   If the request for amendment to the zoning regulations involves a
zoning district change, notice of the public hearing shall be mailed to all
property owners within 350 feet of the property on which the amendment is
proposed.
      (2)   Defects in the notice or failure to notify individual property
owners shall not validate the proceedings, provided a good faith effort was
made to comply with these provisions.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall forward its findings/recommendations
on the proposed amendment to the City Council after the public hearing has been
held.
   (G)   Action by the City Council. The City Council shall review the findings
and recommendations of the Planning Commission and act upon the amendment
within the time frame prescribed by law.
(Prior Code, § 601.30) (Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 6-27-2005)
§ 154.32 FEES.
   All application fees, escrows, reimbursable expenses, and other costs
associated with or attributed to this chapter are established in §
36.01 of the Harris City Code..
(Prior Code, § 601.31) (Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 6-27-2005; Am. Ord. 2007-5-14,
passed 5-14-2007)
§ 154.33 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   It shall be unlawful to violate the terms and provisions of this chapter.
The city shall have the following remedies and penalties available to enforce
this chapter:
   (A)   Administrative remedy. Whenever any activity is being done contrary to
the provisions of this chapter, the work shall be stopped when written notice
is served on any persons engaged in the doing or causing such work to be done
or when such notice is posted at the site of the activity. The Zoning
Administrator or Building Official may, in writing, suspend a permit for
violation of any provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Civil remedy. In the event of a violation of this chapter, the city
may institute appropriate actions or proceedings to include injunctive relief
to prevent, restrain, correct or abate such violations or threatened
violations, and the City Attorney may institute such action.
   (C)   Criminal remedy. Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any
of the provisions of this chapter or who shall fail to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter or who shall make any false statement in any
document required to be submitted under the provisions of this chapter, shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as
provided by law. Each day that a violation continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 601.32) (Am. Ord. 2005-02, passed 6-27-2005; Am. Ord. 2007-5-14,
passed 5-14-2007)
CHAPTER 155: MINERAL EXTRACTION
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Mineral extraction permit required
   
155.04   Exceptions from permit requirements
   
155.05   Permit application requirements
   
155.06   Permitting procedure
   
155.07   Security
   
155.08   Annual certification
   
155.09   Use restrictions
   
155.10   Mineral extraction performance standards
   
155.11   Land rehabilitation
   
155.99   Violations and penalties
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the public health, safety and
welfare through the following:
   (A)   Identify areas in the community where mineral extraction is most
appropriate and minimizes conflicts with other land uses.
   (B)   Establish permitting requirements, environmental review procedures and
performance standards to regulate mineral extraction.
   (C)   Establish standards which prevent or minimize environmental and
aesthetic impacts on extracted properties, adjacent properties and the
community as a whole.
   (D)   Establish standards and financial guarantees that restore extracted
land to a condition compatible with adjacent properties and suitable for future
uses which are compatible with the city comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USES.  ACCESSORY USES of a mineral extraction facility include the
manufacture, storage and sale of products made from minerals.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Harris, Minnesota.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Harris, Minnesota.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. The City of Harris Comprehensive Plan.
   COUNTY. The County of Chisago, Minnesota.
   DUST. Airborne mineral particulate matter.
   EXCAVATION. The movement of minerals on site.
   MINERAL. Sand, gravel, rock, soil, clay and similar higher density non-
metallic natural minerals.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION. The removal of minerals from the ground and off the
site.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION FACILITY. Any area used for mineral extraction and
processing minerals, whether extracted on site or off site.
   MINERAL EXTRACTION PERMIT. The permit required for mineral extraction
facilities.
   OPERATOR. Any person or persons, partnerships or corporations or assignees,
including public or governmental agencies, engaging in mineral extraction.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The PRINCIPAL USE of a mineral extraction facility is the
extraction, crushing, screen, mixing, storage and sale of minerals from the
facility.
   PROCESSING. Any activity which may include the crushing, screening, mixing,
and stockpiling of sand, gravel, rocks, or similar mineral products into
consumable products such as fill, construction grade sand, gravel, roadway
mixes, and other similar granular products.
   REHABILITATION. To renew land to self-sustaining long-term use which is
compatible with contiguous land uses, present and future, in accordance with
the standards set forth in this chapter.
   SOIL. A natural three-dimensional body of the earth's surface.
   SUBJECT PROPERTY. The land on which mineral extraction is permitted.
   TOPSOIL. The upper portion of the soils present that is the most favorable
material for plant growth.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The City of Harris Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 6-8-2015; Am. Ord 2021-03, passed 5-10-2021)
§ 155.03 MINERAL EXTRACTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A mineral extraction permit is required for all mineral excavation
facilities. A mineral extraction permit is an interim use and shall be
processed in accordance with §
154.29 of this code and the additional procedures and requirements of this
section. Legal nonconforming mineral extraction facilities expanding on new
parcel after adoption of this chapter shall be required to obtain a mineral
extraction permit consistent with the provisions of this chapter. If operations
are discontinued for a period of 12 months, or if the property is sold, a new
permit must be applied for.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 155.04 EXCEPTIONS FROM PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   A mineral extraction permit shall not be required for the following:
   (A)   Excavation for a structure if a building permit has been issued.
   (B)   Excavation in a right-of-way or utility corridor by state, county or
city authorities in connection with construction or maintenance of public
improvements.
   (C)   Excavation for agricultural purposes.
   (D)   Excavations for public utility purposes.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 155.05 PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application form. An application for a mineral extraction permit shall
be submitted to the city on a form supplied by the city. Information shall
include, but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   The following maps of the entire site and to include areas within
500 feet of the site. All maps shall be drawn at a scale of 1 inch to 200 feet
unless otherwise stated below:
         (a)   Map A: Existing conditions to include:
            1.   Property boundaries;
            2.   Contour lines at ten-foot intervals;
            3.   Existing vegetation;
            4.   Existing drainage and permanent water areas;
            5.   Existing structures;
            6.   Existing wells and private sewer systems of record;
            7.   Existing pipelines, power lines and other utilities; and
            8.   Easements.
         (b)   Map B: Proposed operations to include:
            1.   Property boundaries;
            2.   Structures to be erected;
            3.   Location of sites to be mined showing depth of proposed
excavation;
            4.   Location of tailings deposits showing maximum height deposits;
            5.   Location of processing areas and machinery to be used in the
mining operation;
            6.   Location of storage of mined materials, showing height of
storage deposits;
            7.   Location of vehicle parking;
            8.   Location of storage of explosives;
            9.   Erosion and sediment control structures; and
            10.   Haul routes.
         (c)   Map C: End use plan to include:
            1.   Property boundaries;
            2.   Final grade of proposed site showing elevations and contour
lines at five-foot intervals;
            3.   Location and species of vegetation to be replanted;
            4.   Location and nature of any structure to be erected in relation
to the end use plan; and
            5.   Turf rehabilitation plan.
      (2)   Name, address, phone number, contact person for the operator.
      (3)   Name, address, phone number of the landowner.
      (4)   Names of the adjacent landowners including all those within a 1/
4 mile radius of the boundary line of the subject property.
      (5)   Acreage and complete legal description of the subject property on
which the facility will be located, including all contiguous property owned by
the landowners.
      (6)   A narrative outlining the type of material to be excavated, mode of
operation, estimated quantity of material to be extracted, plans for blasting,
and other pertinent information to explain the request in detail.
      (7)   Phasing plan and estimated time frame to operate the facility.
      (8)   A description of all vehicles and equipment estimated to be used in
the operation of the facility, including a description of the estimated average
daily and peak daily number of vehicles accessing the facility.
      (9)   Any other information or documentation required for issuance of the
mineral extraction permit.
   (B)   Supporting documentation. Every application for a mineral extraction
permit shall include submission of supporting documentation, which shall
include, but is not limited to the following:
      (1)   A description of existing land uses on the subject property and all
properties within 1/4 mile.
      (2)   A description of land use designations in the comprehensive plan
and zoning classifications of the subject property and all properties within 1/
4 mile.
      (3)   A description of the soil, vegetation, mineral content and
topography of the subject property. A minimum of three soil boring logs
representative of the site and a description of the subsurface materials on the
subject property must be submitted.
      (4)   A general description of surface waters, existing drainage patterns
and groundwater conditions within 1/4 mile of the subject property.
      (5)   A general description of the depth, quantity, quality and intended
uses of the mineral deposits on the subject property.
      (6)   Copies of the MPCA application documents and operating permits.
      (7)   A description of the site hydrology and drainage characteristics
during extraction for each phase of mineral extraction. Identify any locations
where drainage of any disturbed areas will not be controlled on the subject
property and plans to control erosion, sedimentation and water quality of the
runoff.
      (8)   A description of the potential impacts to adjacent properties
resulting from mineral extraction and off-site transportation, including but
not limited to noise, dust, surface water runoff, groundwater contamination,
traffic and aesthetics.
      (9)   A description of the plan to mitigate potential impacts resulting
from mineral extraction.
      (10)   A description of site screening, landscaping and security fencing.
      (11)   Site rehabilitation plans for each phase of operation and upon
completion of mineral extraction of the subject property.
      (12)   A description of the method in which complaints about any aspect
of the mineral extraction facility operation or off-site transportation are to
be received and the method by which complaints are to be resolved.
      (13)   A plan for groundwater quality protection. A minimum of three
cross-showing the extent of overburden, extent of sand and gravel deposits, the
water table, and any evidence of the water table in the past. The Planning
Commission reserves the right to require additional borings if necessary.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 155.06 PERMITTING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application. A request for a mineral extraction permit, as provided
within this chapter, shall be filed with the City Clerk on an official
application form, the required application fee shall be paid, and a deposit
made to reimburse the city for its out-of-pocket costs in processing the
application. The application shall also be accompanied by ten copies of
detailed written and graphic materials fully explaining the proposed change,
development, or use as specified under this chapter. The City Clerk shall refer
the application, along with all related information to the Planning Commission
for consideration.
   (B)   Notice. The City Clerk shall notice a public hearing to be held by the
Planning Commission. Notice of such hearing shall be published in the official
newspaper of the city at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.
Written notice shall be sent to all property owners of record within 500 feet
of the affected property in incorporated areas and to property owners within 1/
4 mile of the affected property or the nearest ten properties in unincorporated
areas, whichever would provide notice to the greatest number of owners. A copy
of the notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to which the
notice was sent shall be attested to by the City Clerk and made a part of the
official record. The failure to give mailed notice to individual property
owners, or defects in the notice, shall not invalidate the proceedings,
provided a bona fide attempt to comply with this subdivision has been made.
   (C)   Additional information. The Planning Commission and the City Clerk
shall have the authority to request additional information from the applicant
or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of the
applicant if said information is declared to be necessary by the city to review
the request or to establish performance conditions in relation to this chapter.
   (D)   Referrals. The Planning Commission and the City Clerk may refer the
application for review and comment to other agencies, including but not limited
to the Soil and Water Conservation District and the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency.
   (E)   Recommendation. The Planning Commission shall make a finding of fact
and recommend such actions or conditions relating to the request to the City
Council. The city may impose such additional restrictions or conditions as
deemed necessary to protect the public interest. These conditions may include,
but are not limited to the following:
      (1)   Matters relating to the appearance;
      (2)   Hours of operation;
      (3)   Increasing setbacks;
      (4)   Limiting the height, size, or location of buildings;
      (5)   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
      (6)   Increasing street width and improving access conditions;
      (7)   Requiring diking, berming, fencing, screening, landscaping, or
other facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property;
      (8)   Limiting the area to be mined;
      (9)   Requiring phased rehabilitation;
      (10)   Requiring financial security to guarantee compliance with the
conditions of approval; and/or
      (11)   Water quality monitoring.
   (F)   City Council action and findings. The City Council shall approve,
modify or deny the request and state the findings of its actions. Approval of a
mineral extraction permit shall require passage by majority vote of the City
Council. The City Clerk shall notify the applicant of the City Council's
action.
   (G)   Reapplication/lapse of mineral extraction permit. The City Council
shall not accept reapplication for the same or substantially same mineral
extraction permit within six months of denial. Any mineral extraction permit
approved but not used within 12 months of the date of approval shall be null
and void.
   (H)   Amended mineral extraction permit. Any change to the approved mineral
extraction permit shall require an amended mineral extraction permit. Any
expansion beyond the original boundaries shall not be considered an amended
permit and shall require a new mineral extraction permit.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 155.07 SECURITY.
   The city shall require the applicant or owner of the property on which the
mineral extraction is occurring, to post a bond, letter of credit or cash
escrow in such form and sum as determined by the City Council as part of the
permit. The security shall be sufficient to reimburse the following costs:
   (A)   Costs of bringing the operation into compliance with the mineral
extraction permit requirements, including site monitoring and enforcement
costs;
   (B)   Extraordinary costs of repairing roads due to the special burden
resulting from the hauling of materials and traffic associated with the
operation. The amount of such cost shall be determined by the City Engineer;
   (C)   Site restoration; and
   (D)   Costs the city may incur in enforcing the terms of the mineral
extraction permit, including attorney's fees.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 155.08 ANNUAL CERTIFICATION.
   Annual certification of all mineral extraction permits is required. The
purpose of the annual certification is to maintain an updated listing of active
permits in the city, to decertify any permits where the activity has ceased,
and to monitor compliance with the conditions of approval. Permit holders must
complete and return certification forms provided by the city. Failure to
maintain certification shall be cause for revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 155.09 USE RESTRICTIONS.
   The following uses are prohibited unless specifically authorized in the
mineral extraction permit:
   (A)   The washing of the extracted material;
   (B)   The production or manufacturing of veneer stone, sills, lintels, cut
flagstone, hearthstones, paving stone and similar architectural or structural
stone, and the storing or stockpiling of such products on the site; and
   (C)   The manufacture of concrete building blocks or other similar blocks,
the production or manufacture of lime products, the production of ready-mixed
concrete, asphalt and any similar production or manufacturing processes.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 155.10 MINERAL EXTRACTION PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The following performance standards apply to all mineral extraction
facilities in the city.
   (A)   Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size for which mineral extraction
permits may be issued is 20 acres. The City Clerk may issue an administrative
permit for a temporary extraction activity on less than 20 acres associated
with local construction projects. The permit shall be limited to one calendar
year in duration and shall be subject to all performance standards of this
chapter, unless certain standards are specifically waived by the City Clerk.
The City Clerk may also require additional conditions, such as specifying haul
routes and guaranteeing haul route maintenance and repair.
   (B)   Hours of operation. Mineral extraction facilities shall operate only
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Monday through Saturday.
      (1)   Operators are allowed a maximum of five one-day extensions to the
hours of operation for evening work in a calendar year. Operators must notify
the city in advance of the proposed extension.
      (2)   Other exceptions to the hours of operation must be approved by the
city. Approval may only be granted in conjunction with the furnishing of
material for a public improvement project that is underway during hours that
the mineral extraction facility is not otherwise allowed to operate. Approval
will be limited to those functions that cannot occur during normal hours of
operation.
      (3)   Other exceptions approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Fencing. Fencing, signs and barriers are required around ponding areas
and steep sloped excavation areas unless, because of their location, they are
not deemed to create a safety hazard.
   (D)   Access. The location of the intersection of mining access roads with
any public roads shall be selected such that traffic on the access roads will
have a sufficient distance of the public road in view so that any turns onto
the public road can be completed with a margin of safety.
   (E)   Roadway dust control. Operators shall be responsible for providing
dust control on all gravel roads used by trucks hauling to or from a mineral
excavation facility. Unless waived by the City Council in lieu of other
remedies, watering roadways will be required when conditions warrant it.
   (F)   Mineral extraction facility dust control. The city may require
watering in a facility when it is determined that airborne dust from extraction
areas, processing activities, stockpiles or internal roadways create a public
nuisance. Other remedies to control dust may include berming, landscaping, and
enclosures for processing equipment. All equipment used for mining operations
shall be constructed, maintained and operated in such a manner as to minimize
dust conditions, as far as practical. All access roads from mining operations
to public highways, roads or streets, or to adjoining property shall be paved
or surfaced with gravel to minimize dust conditions.
   (G)   Noise. Maximum noise levels at the facility will be consistent with
the standards established by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (H)   Vibration. Operators shall use all practical means to eliminate
adverse impacts on adjacent properties from vibration of equipment.
   (I)   Air quality/water quality. All activities on the subject property will
be conducted in a manner consistent with the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency's operating permits.
   (J)   Water resources. The mineral extraction operation shall not allow
surface water to leave the site in a manner that causes flooding, erosion, or
alteration of natural drainage patterns. The mineral extraction operation shall
not adversely affect the quality of surface or subsurface water. Surface water
originating outside and passing through the mineral extraction facility shall,
at its point of departure from the mining site, be of equal quality to the
water at the point where it enters the mining site. The operator shall perform
any water treatment necessary to comply with this provision.
   (K)   Screening. To minimize problems of dust and noise and to shield mining
operations from public view, a screening barrier may be required between the
mining site and adjacent properties. The design of the screening barrier shall
be adequate to provide screening that would minimize the visual interruption of
the surrounding landscape. When practical, a screening barrier must be
maintained between the mineral extraction operation and any public road.
   (L)   Unauthorized storage. Vehicles, equipment or materials not associated
with the mineral extraction facility or not in operable condition may not be
kept or stored at the facility, except as specifically authorized in the
mineral extraction permit.
   (M)   Setbacks. Mineral extraction shall occur no closer than 50 feet from
any property line or road easement. An exception to the property line setback
requirement may be considered on a case-by-case basis where two mineral
extraction facilities share a common lot line and the City Council determines
it to be in the city's interest to waive all or portions of the contiguous
setback areas between the facilities. The setbacks for all other equipment and
activities shall be based upon performance standards for noise, dust control,
visual screening and the like as determined in the application review process.
   (N)   Phasing. Phasing plans must be prepared for all mineral extraction
facilities. The plans shall include the details and schedule for rehabilitation
in the transition of one phase to another.
   (O)   Minimum disturbance. Existing trees and ground cover outside of
mineral extraction areas shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible.
   (P)   Weed control. The operators shall be required to control noxious weeds
and mow or harvest other vegetation to maintain reasonable appearance of the
site.
   (Q)   Waste disposal. Any waste generated from the mining operation,
including waste from vehicle or equipment maintenance, shall be disposed of in
accordance with federal, state, county and city requirements.
   (R)   Recycled concrete and asphalt. The importation of recycled concrete
and asphalt may be considered an accessory use, at the discretion of the City
Council, provided also that it is processed and prepared for construction reuse
or sale.
   (S)   General compliance. The operators must comply with all other federal,
state, regional, county and local laws and regulations applicable to the
operation of the mineral extraction facility, including, but not limited to,
floodplain management regulations, shoreland management regulations and Zoning
Ordinance regulations.
   (T)   Additional regulations. The city may impose additional regulations and
requirements to the mineral extraction permit to protect the public health,
safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 155.11 LAND REHABILITATION.
   Land rehabilitation plans for mineral extraction permits must include the
grading plans, topsoil replacement, seeding, mulching, erosion control, and
sedimentation control specifications for each phase and the final site
restoration. The following minimum standards and conditions apply.
   (A)   Final grades may not exceed a 3:1 ratio (33% slope), except for
rehabilitated areas in existence at the time of adoption of this chapter. In
completing final grading in each phase, the top of the slope may begin 20 feet
from property lines.
   (B)   A minimum of six inches of topsoil shall be placed on all graded
surfaces.
   (C)   Seeding and mulching shall be consistent with Minnesota Department of
Transportation specifications for rights-of-way. Exceptions to seeding and
mulching include areas returned to agricultural production.
   (D)   Soil restoration, seeding, and mulching must occur within each phase
as soon as final grades, or interim grades identified in the phasing plans have
been reached. Exceptions to seeding and mulching include the processing,
storage and staging areas within each phase.
   (E)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures shall be consistent
with MPCA's Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas.
   (F)   Unless otherwise amended or approved by the city, all final grades and
site restoration efforts shall be consistent with the rehabilitation plan.
   (G)   Within six months after completion of mineral extraction or after
termination of the permit, all equipment, vehicles, machinery, materials and
debris shall be removed from the subject property.
   (H)   Within 12 months after completion of mineral extraction or after
termination of the permit, site rehabilitation must be completed.
   (I)   All water areas resulting from excavating shall be eliminated upon
rehabilitation of the site. In unique instances where the City Council has
reviewed proposals for water bodies at the time of approval of the overall plan
and has determined that such would be appropriate as an open space or
recreational amenity in subsequent reuse of the site, water bodies may be
permitted.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 6-8-2015)
§ 155.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any firm, person or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
these regulations shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to a fine and/or imprisonment as provided by law.
Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (B)   In the event of a violation or threatened violation of any of the
terms of this chapter, the city may take appropriate action to enforce this
chapter, including application for injunctive relief, action to compel
performance or other appropriate action to court if necessary to prevent,
restrain, correct or abate such violations or threatened violations. Upon
motion, the court may award costs, disbursements and reasonable attorney's fees
and witness fees, which costs and fees can be assessed against the property.
(Ord. 2015-02, passed 6-8-2015)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   ANNEXATIONS
         
II.   FRANCHISES AND EASEMENTS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date   Description
         Passed
2007-5-  - -    Annexing part of Section 22, Township 36 North, Range 21 West
14/2            to the City of Harris, pursuant to M.S. § 414.033, Subd. 2(3)
               
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES AND EASEMENTS
 
Ord. No.             Date Passed Description
Prior Code, § 205.011-11-1962   Granting a 20-year easement to Northern States
                                 Power Company for electric power.
Prior Code, § 205.021-11-1962   Granting a 20-year easement to Northern States
                                 Power Company for gas lines.
                                
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Minnesota Regulations
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section           Code Section
Ch. 13D                32.02
Ch. 14                 116.04
16B.59 – 16B.75      150.03
                       Ch. 36, Appendix A;
16B.62, Subd. 1        150.01;
                       150.02;
                       150.04
16B.65, Subd. 1        150.01
16B.69                 150.99
16B.70                 150.02,
                       150.04
18C.005, Subd.6a       94.02
18G.01 et seq.         93.02
84.787 – 84.929      72.03
Ch. 103F               153.080,
                       153.106
103F.111               152.06
103I.301 – 103I.345  51.06
Ch. 115                152.05
115.01(8)              53.001
115.07                 53.001
116.07                 92.11
120A.05                133.03
123B.41                133.03
144.391                112.01
Ch. 152                116.06
152.01                 116.06
152.02                 116.06
152.02, Schs. I – V  98.02
Ch. 168B               92.01
168B.09, Subd. 2       92.01
168.10                 92.02
Ch. 169                70.01
169.01                 92.02
169.01, Subd. 3        70.09
169.041                92.02,
                       92.04
169.222                73.26
169.69                 70.10
169.693                70.10
Ch. 173                152.06
216C.06, Subd. 2       33.04
237.162                97.29
237.163                97.29
243.166                133.03
243.166, Subd. 1b      133.03
243.166-167            133.04
244.052                133.02
245A                   133.03
253B.02                116.06
300.06                 97.23
326.40                 51.70
326.40, Subd. 2        51.70
Ch. 329                114.03
                       111.052,
Ch. 340A               111.101,
                       113.08
340A.413, Subd. 3      111.052
340A.101, Subd. 9      111.001
349.11 – 349.23      118.02
349.12, Subd. 7a       118.06
349.16, Subd. 8        118.04
349.213, Subd. 1(f)(2) 118.06
364.05, Subd. 3        117.05
366.011                34.10
366.012                34.10
412.02                 30.03
415.01                 34.10
415.11                 31.02
                       93.01,
                       93.02,
429.101                94.07,
                       95.09,
                       98.09
461.12                 112.99
462.351 – 462.365    153.003
462.354(1)             33.01
462.357, Subd. 6       33.04
462.357, Subd. 7       154.14,
                       154.21
462.357, Subd. 8       154.14,
                       154.21
462.357(3)             33.04
462.358, Subd. 3b      153.045
Ch. 463                98.09
463.15 – 463.261     93.01
463.17                 94.06
                       151.07,
                       152.09,
Ch. 505                153.003,
                       153.082,
                       153.107,
                       153.112
505.02                 152.09
505.03                 151.08
505.08                 151.08
514.67                 93.01
Ch. 609                93.03,
                       130.01
609.72                 113.12
617.242                117.07
624.20                 115.01,
                       116.01
626.862                10.20
2534.02                116.06
                       
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minnesota Rules Section Code Section
Minnesota Rules Section            Code Section
                                   150.01,
1300                               150.03,
                                   150.04
1300.2400, subpart 6               53.003
1301                               150.04
1302                               150.04
1303                               150.04
1305                               150.04
1306                               150.04
1307                               150.04
1309                               150.04
1311                               150.04
1315                               150.04
1325                               150.04
1330                               150.04
1335                               150.04
1335, parts 1335.0600 to 1335.1200 150.04
1341                               150.04
1346                               150.04
1350                               150.04
1360                               150.04
1361                               150.04
1370                               150.04
4410.10                            153.044
4410.4300                          153.044
4410.4600                          153.044
                                   51.31,
4715                               53.003,
                                   150.04
4725                               51.06
7030                               94.04
7035                               92.01
7080.25                            53.201
7670                               150.04
7672                               150.04
7674                               150.04
7676                               150.04
7678                               150.04
                                   
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA REGULATIONS
 
Minn. Regulations Code Section
NR 05-93          151.06
NR 85-93          151.08
NR 87(d)          151.08
                  
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section 2008 Code Section
Prior Code Section 2008 Code Section
102.03             10.05
103.01             30.01
103.02             30.02
103.03             30.03
104.01             31.02
104.02             31.03
104.03             31.04
105.01             32.01
105.02             32.02
105.03             32.04
105.04             32.05
105.05             32.06
105.06             32.07
105.07             32.08
105.08             32.09
105.09             32.10
105.10             32.11
105.11             32.12
303.01             110.01
303.02             110.02
303.03             110.03
303.07.1           115.01
303.07.2           115.02
303.07.3           115.03
303.09.1           116.01
303.09.2           116.02
303.09.3           116.03
303.09.4           116.04
303.09.5           116.05
303.09.6           116.06
303.09.7           116.07
402.01             130.01
402.02             130.02
402.03             131.01
402.04             131.15
402.06             131.17
402.07             131.02
402.08             132.01
402.09             132.02
403.01             91.01
406.01             90.01
406.02             90.02
406.03             90.03
406.04             90.04
406.05             90.05
406.06             90.06
406.07             90.07
406.09             90.09
406.10             90.10
406.11             90.11
406.12             90.12
406.13             90.13
406.14             90.14
406.15             90.15
406.16             90.16
406.17             90.17
406.18             90.18
406.19             90.19
406.20             90.20
406.21             90.21
406.22             90.22
409.01             96.01
409.02             96.02
409.03             96.03
409.04             96.04
409.05             96.05
502.01             33.01
601.01             154.01
601.02             154.02
601.03             154.03
601.04             154.04
601.05             154.05
601.06             154.06
601.07             154.07
601.08             154.08
601.09             154.09
601.10             154.10
601.11             154.11
601.12             154.12
601.13             154.13
601.15             154.14
601.16             154.15
601.17             154.16
601.18             154.17
601.19             154.18
601.20             154.19
601.21             154.20
601.22             154.21
601.23             154.22
601.24             154.23
601.25             154.25
601.26             154.26
601.27             154.27
601.28             154.28
601.29             154.29
601.30             154.31
601.31             154.32
601.32             154.33
1001.01            152.01 –
                   152.15
1101.01            151.01
1101.02            151.02
1101.03            151.03
1101.04            151.04
1101.05            151.05
1101.06            151.06
1101.07            151.07
1101.08            151.08
1101.09            151.09
1101.10            151.10
1101.11            151.11
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed Code Section
                       153.001 –
                       153.012,
                       153.025,
                       153.026,
                       153.040 –
                       153.052,
- -        1-23-2001   153.065 –
                       153.068,
                       153.080 –
                       153.093,
                       153.105 –
                       153.112,
                       153.999
                       150.01 –
2003-01    8-7-2003    150.04,
                       150.99
2003-02    8-7-2003    150.04
2004-6     12-16-2004  111.054
2005-01    5-23-2005   98.01 –
                       98.15
                       154.03,
                       154.16,
                       154.21,
2005-02    6-27-2005   154.27 –
                       154.29,
                       154.31,
                       154.32
                       153.012,
                       153.040,
                       153.042,
2005-03    6-27-2005   153.043,
                       153.045,
                       153.047,
                       153.053
                       93.01 –
                       93.03,
2005-4     9-26-2005   94.01 –
                       94.07,
                       95.01 –
                       95.09
2005-5     9-26-2005   92.01 –
                       92.11
                       153.040,
2006-      - -         153.094,
                       154.14
2006-2-1   2-27-2006   31.01
                       111.001 –
                       111.019,
                       111.030 –
                       111.035,
                       111.050 –
                       111.056,
2006-4-2   4-24-2006   111.070,
                       111.071,
                       111.085 –
                       111.087,
                       111.100,
                       111.101,
                       111.115
2006-6-1   6-6-2006    54.01 –
                       54.03
9-01-06    10-9-2006   34.01 –
                       34.09
                       72.01 –
2007-8-13  - -         72.04,
                       72.99
2007-09-04 4-9-2007    54.03
                       154.03,
                       154.14,
2007-5-14  5-14-2007   154.23,
                       154.30,
                       154.32,
                       154.33
2007-07-23 7-23-2007   34.10
                       150.15 –
2008-1     - -         150.17,
                       150.99
2008-2     - -         154.29
2008-4     7-14-2008   Adopting Ordinance
2007-07-23 9-8-2008    34.10
2008-05    9-8-2008    31.02
2009-04    6-9-2009    34.01 –
                       34.08
                       111.115,
                       117.01 –
2010-02    2-8-2010    117.07,
                       117.99,
                       154.14
154        9-27-2010   154.14
11.052     10-18-2010  111.052
2007-07-23 11-8-2010   34.10
2011-02    1-10-2011   117.02,
                       117.08
2011-03    6-13-2011   154.14
2012-04    4-9-2012    111.115
2012-05    4-9-2012    154.14
2013-03    2-11-2013   154.05,
                       154.28
                       72.01 –
2013-05    7-8-2013    72.04,
                       72.99
2014-01    4-14-2014   34.01 –
                       34.09
                       111.015,
2014-02    4-14-2014   118.01 –
                       118.07,
                       118.99
2014-07    4-14-2014   154.14
                       53.001 –
                       53.005,
                       53.015 –
                       53.018,
                       53.055 –
                       53.064,
                       53.080 –
2014-05    11-10-2014  53.094,
                       53.110 –
                       53.116,
                       53.130 –
                       53.133,
                       53.200 –
                       53.203,
                       53.999
                       51.01 –
                       51.08,
                       51.25 –
2014-06    11-10-2014  51.35,
                       51.50 –
                       51.54,
                       51.70 –
                       51.74
2015-01    6-8-2015    154.04
                       155.01 –
2015-02    6-8-2015    155.11,
                       155.99
2015-03    11-9-2015   154.14
2016-01    2-8-2016    34.01 –
                       34.09
2016-03    4-11-2016   154.14
2016-04    4-11-2016   154.14
2016-05    6-13-2016   154.14
2016-07    10-17-2016  31.02
2016-08    10-17-2016  154.14
2016-09    10-17-2016  154.14
2017-01    8-14-2017   154.04
2017-03    9-11-2017   154.14
2017-04    9-11-2017   154.03
2017-05    12-11-2017  154.14
2017-06    12-11-2017  154.14
2019-01    9-9-2019    154.14
2019-02    12-11-2019  154.14
2020-02    6-8-2020    Adopting Ordinance
2020-03    6-8-2020    154.03,
                       154.14
2020-04    6-8-2020    71.04
                       133.01 –
2020-05    10-19-2020  133.04,
                       133.99
2021-02    5-10-2021   154.03,
                       154.14
2021-03    5-10-2021   155.02
2022-02    1-10-2022   153.040,
                       153.042
2022-03    8-15-2022   154.14
2022-04    8-15-2022   31.02
2022-06    11-14-2022  154.07,
                       154.14
2022-07    11-14-2022  154.22
2023-01    1-9-2023    36.01;
                       Ch. 36, Appendix A
2023-02    3-13-2023   154.14
2023-03    3-13-2023   154.03,
                       154.14
                      
 
