CITY CODE
of
HAWLEY, MINNESOTA
1996
Code current through:
Ord. 300, passed June 2, 2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
PREFACE
         This code of the City of Hawley, as supplemented, contains ordinances
up to and including ordinance 300, passed June 2, 2025. Ordinances of the City
adopted after said ordinance supersede the provisions of this code to the
extent that they are in conflict or inconsistent therewith. Consult the City
office in order to ascertain whether any particular provision of the code has
been amended, superseded or repealed.
                     American Legal Publishing
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
ORDINANCES PENDING REVIEW FOR CODIFICATION
Listed ordinances have been passed, but they are pending review by the
publisher, and they may not affect the code of ordinances. Additionally,
ordinances listed in this section may not show the original ordinances in their
entirety. Please contact the office of the clerk if there are any questions
concerning any listed ordinances.
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 213
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING
   THE CITY CODE OF HAWLEY, MINNESOTA
   BE IT ORDAINED by the Mayor and City Council of the City of Hawley,
Minnesota, a Minnesota Municipal Corporation:
   Section 1: From and after the date of passage of this Ordinance, the City
Code of the City of Hawley, Minnesota prepared by Sterling Codifiers, Inc.,
containing the compilation of all ordinances of a general nature together with
the changes made to said ordinances, under the direction of the governing body
of the City, shall be accepted in all courts without question as the Official
Code and Law of the City as enacted by the Mayor and City Council.
   Section 2: There is hereby adopted, as a method of perpetual codification,
the loose-leaf type of binding together with the continuous supplement service
whereby each newly adopted ordinance of a general and permanent nature
amending, altering, adding or deleting provisions of the Official City Code is
identified by the proper catchline and is inserted in the proper place in each
of the official copies, three (3) copies of which shall be maintained in the
office of the City Clerk, certified as to correctness and available for
inspection at any and all times that said office is regularly open.
   Section 3: All ordinances of a general nature included in this Official City
Code shall be considered as a continuation of said ordinance provision and the
fact that some provisions have been deliberately eliminated by the governing
body shall not serve to cause any interruption in the continuous effectiveness
of ordinances included in said Official City Code. All ordinances of a special
nature, such as tax levy ordinances, bond ordinances, franchises, vacating
ordinances and annexation ordinances shall continue in full force and effect
unless specifically repealed or amended by a provision of the City Code. Such
ordinances are not intended to be included in the Official City Code.
   Section 4: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
change or amend by additions or deletions, any part or portion of such Code, or
to insert or delete pages or portions thereof, or to alter or tamper with such
Code in any manner whatsoever which will cause the law of the City to be
misrepresented thereby.
   Section 5: All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith, are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
   Section 6: This Ordinance and the Code adopted by the same shall be in full
force and effect from and after its passage and approval in accordance with
law, as printed and published in book form by order of the Mayor and City
Council.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5d8b6c812b54ecf4bde8462623e61d88d4e5afe7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-876.png]
TITLE 1
ADMINISTRATION
CHAPTER 1
OFFICIAL CITY CODE
SECTION:
1-1-1: Title
1-1-2: Acceptance
1-1-3: Amendments
1-1-4: Code Alterations
1-1-1: TITLE:
Upon the adoption by the City Council, this City Code is hereby declared to be
and shall hereafter constitute the official City Code of Hawley. This City Code
of ordinances shall be known and cited as the HAWLEY CITY CODE and is hereby
published by authority of the City Council and shall be supplemented to
incorporate the most recent legislation of the City as provided in Section
1-1-3 of this Chapter. Any reference to the number of any section contained
herein shall be understood to refer to the position of the same number, its
appropriate chapter and title heading, and to the general penalty clause
relating thereto, as well as to the section itself, when reference is made to
this City Code by title in any legal documents. (1996 Code)
1-1-2: ACCEPTANCE:
The City Code, as hereby presented in printed form, shall hereafter be received
without further proof in all courts and in administrative tribunals of this
State as the ordinances of the City of general and permanent effect, except the
excluded ordinances enumerated in Section
1-2-1 of this Title. (1996 Code)
1-1-3: AMENDMENTS:
Any ordinance amending the City Code shall set forth the title, chapter and
section number of the section or sections to be amended, and this shall
constitute sufficient compliance with any statutory requirement pertaining to
the amendment or revision by ordinance of any part of this City Code. All such
amendments or revisions by ordinance shall be immediately forwarded to the
codifiers, and the said ordinance material shall be prepared for insertion in
its proper place in each copy of this City Code. Each such replacement page
shall be properly identified and shall be inserted in each individual copy of
the City Code. (1996 Code)
1-1-4: CODE ALTERATIONS:
It shall be deemed unlawful for any person to alter, change, replace or deface
in any way any section or any page of this City Code in such a manner that the
meaning of any phrase or order may be changed or omitted. Replacement pages may
be inserted according to the official instructions when so authorized by the
City Council. The City Administrator shall see that the replacement pages are
properly inserted in the official copies maintained in the office of the City
Administrator. Any person having custody of a copy of the City Code shall make
every effort to maintain said Code current as to the most recent ordinances
passed. Such person shall see to the immediate insertion of new or replacement
pages when such are delivered or made available to such person through the
office of the City Administrator. Said Code books, while in actual possession
of officials and other interested persons, shall be and remain the property of
the City and shall be returned to the office of the City Administrator when
directed so to do by order of the City Council. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 2
SAVING CLAUSE
SECTION:
1-2-1: Repeal Of General Ordinances
1-2-2: Public Ways And Public Utility Ordinances
1-2-3: Court Proceedings
1-2-4: Severability Clause
1-2-1: REPEAL OF GENERAL ORDINANCES:
All general ordinances of the City passed prior to the adoption of this City
Code are hereby repealed, except such as are included in this City Code or are
by necessary implication herein reserved from repeal (subject to the saving
clauses contained in the following sections), and excluding the following
ordinances which are not hereby repealed: tax levy ordinances; appropriation
ordinances; ordinances relating to boundaries and annexations; franchise
ordinances and other ordinances granting special rights to persons or
corporations; contract ordinances and ordinances authorizing the execution of a
contract or the issuance of warrants; salary ordinances; ordinances
establishing, naming or vacating streets, alleys or other public places;
improvement ordinances; bond ordinances; ordinances relating to elections;
ordinances relating to the transfer or acceptance of real estate by or from the
City; and all special ordinances. (1996 Code)
1-2-2: PUBLIC WAYS AND PUBLIC UTILITY ORDINANCES:
No ordinance relating to railroad crossings with streets and other public ways,
or relating to the conduct, duties, service or rates of public utilities shall
be repealed by virtue of the adoption of this City Code or by virtue of the
preceding Section, excepting as the City Code may contain provisions for such
matters, in which case, this City Code shall be considered as amending such
ordinance or ordinances in respect to such provisions only. (1996 Code)
1-2-3: COURT PROCEEDINGS:
   A.    No new ordinance shall be construed or held to repeal a former
ordinance whether such former ordinance is expressly repealed or not, as to any
offense committed against such former ordinance or as to any act done, any
penalty, forfeiture or punishment so incurred, or any right accrued or claim
arising under the former ordinance, or in any way whatever to affect any such
offense or act so committed or so done, or any penalty, forfeiture or
punishment so incurred or any right accrued or claim arising before the new
ordinance takes effect, save only that the proceedings thereafter shall conform
to the ordinance in force at the time of such proceeding, so far as
practicable. If any penalty, forfeiture or punishment may be mitigated by any
provision of a new ordinance, such provision may be, by consent of the party
affected, applied to any judgment announced after the new ordinance takes
effect.
   B.    This Section shall extend to all repeals, either by express words or
implication, whether the repeal is in the ordinance making any new provisions
upon the same subject or in any other ordinance.
   C.    Nothing contained in this Chapter shall be construed as abating any
action now pending under or by virtue of any general ordinance of the City
herein repealed, and the provisions of all general ordinances contained in this
Code shall be deemed to be continuing provisions and not a new enactment of the
same provisions; nor shall this Chapter be deemed as discontinuing, abating,
modifying or altering any penalty accrued or to accrue, or as affecting the
liability of any person, firm or corporation, or as waiving any right of the
City under any ordinance or provision thereof in force at the time of the
adoption of this City Code. (1996 Code)
1-2-4: SEVERABILITY CLAUSE:
If any section, subsection, subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase
of this City Code or any part thereof is for any reason held to be
unconstitutional or invalid or ineffective by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity or effectiveness of
the remaining portions of this Code, or any part thereof. The City Council
hereby declares that it would have passed each section, subsection,
subdivision, paragraph, sentence, clause or phrase thereof irrespective of the
fact that any one or more sections, subsections, subdivisions, paragraphs,
sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional, invalid or
ineffective. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
1-3-1: Construction Of Words
1-3-2: Definitions, General
1-3-3: Catchlines
1-3-1: CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS:
   A.    Whenever any word in any section of this City Code importing the
plural number is used in describing or referring to any matters, parties or
persons, any single matter, party or person shall be deemed to be included,
although distributive words may not have been used. When any subject matter,
party or person is referred to in this City Code by words importing the
singular number only, or a particular gender, then several matters, parties or
persons and the opposite gender and bodies corporate shall be deemed to be
included; provided, that these rules of construction shall not be applied to
any section of this City Code which contains any express provision excluding
such construction or where the subject matter or context may be repugnant
thereto.
   B.    The word "ordinance" contained in the ordinances of the City has been
changed in the content of this City Code to "Title", "Chapter", "Section" and/
or "subsection" or words of like import for organizational and clarification
purposes only. Such change to the City's ordinances is not meant to amend
passage and effective dates of such original ordinances. (1996 Code)
1-3-2: DEFINITIONS, GENERAL:
Whenever the following words or terms are used in this Code, they shall have
such meaning herein ascribed to them, unless the context makes such meaning
repugnant thereto:
AGENT: A person acting on behalf of another with authority conferred, either
expressly or by implication.
CITY: The City of Hawley, County of Clay, State of Minnesota.
CODE: The Municipal Code of the City of Hawley.
COUNTY: County of Clay, State of Minnesota.
EMPLOYEES: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City employee by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Hawley".
FEE: A sum of money charged by the City for the carrying on of a business,
profession or occupation.
GENDER: A word importing either the masculine or feminine gender only shall
extend and be applied to the other gender and to persons.
LICENSE: The permission granted for the carrying on of a business, profession
or occupation.
NUISANCE: Anything which is injurious to health, or indecent or offensive to
the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to interfere
with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.
OCCUPANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who
occupies the whole or any part of such building or land whether alone or with
others.
OFFENSE: Any act forbidden by any provision of this Code or the omission of any
act required by the provisions of this Code.
OFFICERS: Whenever reference is made in this Code to a City officer by title
only, this shall be construed as though followed by the words "of the City of
Hawley".
OPERATOR: The person who is in charge of any operation, business or profession.
OWNER: As applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, joint tenant or lessee of the whole or of a part of
such building or land.
PERSON: Any public or private corporation, firm, partnership, association,
organization, government or any other group acting as a unit, as well as a
natural person.
PERSONAL PROPERTY: Shall include every description of money, goods, chattels,
effects, evidence of rights in action and all written instruments by which any
pecuniary obligation, right or title to property is created, acknowledged,
transferred, increased, defeated, discharged or diminished and every right or
interest therein.
RETAILER: Unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate
to the sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things direct to the consumer.
RIGHT OF WAY: The privilege of the immediate use of the roadway or other
property.
STREET: Shall include alleys, lanes, courts, boulevards, public ways, public
squares, public places and sidewalks.
TENANT: As applied to a building or land, shall include any person who occupies
the whole or any part of such building or land, whether alone or with others.
WHOLESALER: The terms "wholesaler" and "wholesale dealer" as used in this Code,
unless otherwise specifically defined, shall be understood to relate to the
sale of goods, merchandise, articles or things to persons who purchase for the
purpose of resale.
WRITTEN, IN WRITING: May include printing and any other mode of representing
words and letters, but when the written signature of any person is required by
law to any official or public writing or bond, it shall be in the proper
handwriting of such person, or in case such person is unable to write, by such
person's proper mark. (1996 Code)
1-3-3: CATCHLINES:
The catchlines of the several sections of the City Code are intended as mere
catchwords to indicate the content of the section and shall not be deemed or
taken to be titles of such sections, nor be deemed to govern, limit, modify or
in any manner affect the scope, meaning or intent of the provisions of any
division or section hereof, nor unless expressly so provided, shall they be so
deemed when any of such sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-
enacted. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GENERAL PENALTY
SECTION:
1-4-1: General Penalty
1-4-2: Application Of Provisions
1-4-3: Liability Of Officers
1-4-1: GENERAL PENALTY:
   A.    General Offense: Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any
provisions of this City Code shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed seven hundred
dollars ($700.00), or by imprisonment not to exceed ninety (90) days, or both,
but in either case the costs of the prosecution may be added 1 .
   B.    Petty Offense: A petty offense is an offense which is prohibited by
statute which does not constitute a crime and for which the sentence of a fine
of not more than two hundred dollars ($200.00) may be imposed 2 . (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. M.S.A. §§ 412.231, 609.03(3), 609.033 and 609.034.
2 2. M.S.A. § 609.0332.
1-4-2: APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS:
   A.    The penalty provided in this Chapter shall be applicable to every
section of this City Code the same as though it were a part of each and every
separate section.
   B.    In all cases where the same offense is made punishable or is created
by different clauses or sections of this City Code, the prosecuting officer may
elect under which to proceed, but not more than one recovery shall be had
against the same person for the same offense; provided, that the revocation of
a license or permit shall not be considered a recovery or penalty so as to bar
any other penalty being enforced.
   C.    Whenever the doing of any act or the omission to do any act
constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this City Code and there
shall be no fine or penalty specifically declared for such breach, the
provisions of this Chapter shall apply. (1996 Code)
1-4-3: LIABILITY OF OFFICERS:
No provision of this City Code designating the duties of any officer or
employee shall be so construed as to make such officer or employee liable for
any fine or penalty provided for a failure to perform such duty, unless the
intention of the City Council to impose such fine or penalty on such officer or
employee is specifically and clearly expressed in the section creating the
duty. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 5
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL
SECTION:
1-5-1: Appointment Of Committees
1-5-2: City Council Meetings; Location And Order Of Business
1-5-3: Mayor's Power To Vote
1-5-4: City Elections; Terms Of Council Members And Mayor
1-5-1: APPOINTMENT OF COMMITTEES:
After the organization of each city council, and at the first meeting thereof,
the mayor shall appoint, with the advice and consent of the council, such
committees as may be ordered or required by the laws of the state or by city
ordinances, and when necessary any committee may be appointed at any subsequent
meeting, with the advice and consent of the council. (Ord. 244, 10-8-2007)
1-5-2: CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS; LOCATION AND ORDER OF BUSINESS:
Meetings of the city council shall be held in some accessible place or room
where the public may attend and the order of business shall be as follows:
   A.    Called to order by the mayor or in his or her absence by one of the
council members.
   B.    Roll call.
   C.    Reading of minutes of previous meetings.
   D.    Reports from committees.
   E.    Business, unfinished.
   F.    Business, new.
   G.    Auditing of bills.
   H.    Adjournment.
In all matters not mentioned the meeting shall be governed by the ordinary
rules of order. (Ord. 36, 6-3-1907)
1-5-3: MAYOR'S POWER TO VOTE:
The mayor shall have the right to vote on all questions or propositions,
motions, resolutions or other matters coming up for consideration and may move
or second any question under consideration and take part in debate. (Ord. 36,
6-3-1907; amd. 1996 Code)
1-5-4: CITY ELECTIONS; TERMS OF COUNCIL MEMBERS AND MAYOR:
   A.    Date Of Election: Beginning with the 1996 election, the regular city
election shall be held biennially on the first Tuesday after the first Monday
in November in every even numbered year.
   B.    Terms And Transitions: Two (2) council members shall be elected for
four (4) year terms at each biennial city election commencing in 1996. The
mayor shall be elected for a two (2) year term commencing in the year 2008, and
at every biennial election thereafter. (Ord. 244, 10-8-2007)
CHAPTER 6
OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
SECTION:
1-6-1: Annual Audit
1-6-2: City Attorney
1-6-3: Chief Of Police
1-6-4: Fire Department
1-6-5: Salaries
1-6-1: ANNUAL AUDIT:
There shall be an annual audit of the City's financial affairs by the public
examiner or a public accountant, in accordance with minimum auditing procedures
prescribed by the public examiner. (Ord. 117, 10-6-1967; 1996 Code)
1-6-2: CITY ATTORNEY:
   A.    Duties; Compensation: The City Attorney shall render services in his
professional capacity and advise the City Council when called upon and for his
services shall receive such fee as may be agreed upon by the City Council.
   B.    Oath And Bond: If required, the City Attorney shall take an oath of
office and give bond for the faithful performance of his duties, as may be
required by the City Council. (Ord. 38, 6-3-1907; 1996 Code)
1-6-3: CHIEF OF POLICE:
The Chief of Police of the City is hereby designated as a process officer, who
shall have all the powers and duties as set by the Mayor and City Council.
(Ord. 102, 4-10-1961; 1996 Code)
1-6-4: FIRE DEPARTMENT:
   A.    Establishment: There is hereby established in the City a Volunteer
Fire Department consisting of not less than twenty (20) nor more than twenty
five (25) firefighters, including a Chief and an Assistant Chief.
   B.    Fire Chief And Firefighters; Qualifications, Requirements And
Elections:
      1.    Election Of Chief; Removal, Hearing: The Chief of the Fire
Department shall be elected annually by the members of the Department subject
to confirmation by the City Council. The Fire Chief shall appoint one or two
(2) Assistant Fire Chiefs. Each shall hold office for one year and until his
successor has been duly elected, except that he may be removed by the City
Council for cause after a public hearing.
      2.    Appointment Of Firefighters; Removal, Hearing: Firefighters shall
be appointed by members of the Department, subject to confirmation by the City
Council. Firefighters may be removed for cause either by City Council action
after a public hearing or by action of the Department membership in which two-
thirds (2/3) majority of the total membership votes for expulsion. In the case
of expulsion by the Department membership, the expelled person may appeal the
decision to the City Council who will, after careful consideration of the
facts, make a final decision on the matter.
      3.    Qualifications: The Assistant Chief and firefighters shall be able-
bodies and not less than twenty one (21) nor more than fifty eight (58) years
of age. They shall become members of the Fire Department only after a six (6)
months' probationary period. The City Council may require that each candidate,
before he/she may become a probationary firefighter, must satisfy certain
minimum requirements of height, weight, education and any other qualifications
which may be specified by the City Council and that he or she must
satisfactorily pass a mental and physical examination.
      4.    Loss Of Membership: Firefighters who fail to attend at least a
total of seven (7) meetings and/or drills in any calendar year shall forfeit
membership in the Department.
   C.    Fire Chief; Duties: The Chief shall have control of all the
firefighting apparatus and shall be solely responsible for its care and
condition. He shall make at least one report each year to the City Council at
its meeting in September, as to the condition of the equipment and needs of the
fire department. He may submit additional reports and recommendations at any
meeting of the city council, and he shall report each suspension by him of a
member of the fire department at the first meeting of the city council
following such suspension. He shall be responsible for the prior training and
discipline of the members of the fire department, and may suspend any member
for neglect or refusal to obey an order pending final action by the city
council on his discharge or retention.
      1.    Record Of Fires: The chief shall keep in convenient form a complete
record of all fires. Such a record shall include the time of the alarm,
location of fire, cause of fire (if known), type of building, name of owner and
tenant, value of building and contents, members of the department responding to
the alarm, and such other information as he may deem advisable or as may be
required from time to time by the city council or state insurance department.
      2.    Practice Drills: It shall be the duty of the chief, when the
weather permits, to hold a monthly practice drill of at least one hour's
duration for the fire department and to give the firefighters instruction in
approved methods of firefighting and fire prevention.
   D.    Assistant Chief: In the absence or disability of the chief, the
assistant chief shall perform all the functions and exercise all of the
authority of the chief. In addition, he shall perform such other duties as the
chief may order. (Ord. 139, 6-4-1973)
   E.    Rules And Regulations: The volunteer fire department shall, and it is
hereby required to, formulate and submit to the joint board such rules and
regulations, not inconsistent with the laws of the state or the ordinances of
the city for the government and control of such fire company and the prevention
and extinguishment of fires. Thereupon the city council may adopt such rules
and regulations as shall govern and control said fire department in its
operations.
   F.    Relief Association: The members and officers of the fire department
may continue to be organized into a Firefighter's Relief Association.
   G.    Compensation: The compensation of the officers and firefighters shall
be established by resolution of the joint board. In computing compensation for
fires, one hour shall be considered as the minimum to be paid any firefighter.
   H.    Interference With Department: It shall be unlawful for any person to
give or make, or cause to be given or made, an alarm of fire without probable
cause, or to neglect or refuse to obey any reasonable order of the chief at a
fire, or to interfere with the department in the discharge of its duties; and
any person convicted of violating this subsection shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this title. (Ord. 139, 6-4-1973; amd. 1996 Code)
1-6-5: SALARIES:
   A.   Mayor and Council Members: The compensation of the Mayor and Council
Members is hereby fixed as follows:
      1.   The salary of the Mayor shall be five hundred dollars ($500.00) per
month.
      2.   The salary of each Council Member shall be four hundred dollars
($400.00) per month.
      3.   In addition to the regular monthly salary, each Council Member and
the Mayor shall be paid fifty dollars ($50.00)-for attendance at each official
City Council meeting other than the regular monthly meetings.
      4.   The City Council may authorize payment of the special meeting fee to
any member for attendance at any meeting at which he or she represents the
City.
      5.   The City Council may authorize the payment of one hundred fifty
dollars ($150.00) per day-to the Mayor or any Council Member whom it designates
to represent the City at any meeting where an entire day’s attendance is
necessary. This payment shall be in lieu of the special meeting payment and
must be authorized in advance by a majority of the City Council.
   B.   Public Utilities Commissioners: The salaries of the Public Utilities
Commissioners are hereby fixed at two hundred dollars ($200.00) per month. In
addition, each Commissioner shall be paid fifty dollars ($50.00) for attendance
at each official Commission meeting, other than the regular monthly meeting.
   C.   Board of Adjustment: The salaries of the Board of Adjustment Members
are hereby fixed at fifty dollars ($50.00) for attendance at each official
Board of Adjustment hearing.
   D.   Planning Commission, Park Board, EDA And Airport Commissions: The
salaries of appointed members of the Planning Commission, Park Board, EDA and
Airport Commission is hereby fixed at fifty dollars ($50.00) for attendance to
each official meeting.
(Ord. 267, 7-21-2014, eff. 1-1-2015; amd. Ord. 289, 10-17-2022; Ord. 297, 10-
21-2024)
TITLE 2
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
CHAPTER 1
PARK BOARD
SECTION:
2-1-1: Park Board Established
2-1-2: Membership; Terms
2-1-3: Rules And Reports
2-1-4: Jurisdiction
2-1-5: Powers
2-1-6: Park Board Fund
2-1-1: PARK BOARD ESTABLISHED:
There is hereby established a park board in the city, under Minnesota statutes,
sections 412.491 to 412.531, inclusive. (Ord. 125, 8-10-1970)
2-1-2: MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
   A.    Appointment; Terms Of Office: The park board shall consist of five (5)
members appointed by the mayor, with the consent of the city council. The
members shall serve for three (3) year terms. One seat may be filled by a
member of the city council on the park board. (Ord. 255, 1-10-2011)
   B.    Removal From Board: Any member may be removed by the mayor, with the
consent of the city council, after a hearing. Vacancies shall be filled for the
remainder of the original term. Each member shall serve until his or her
successor is appointed and qualified.
   C.    Officers Of Board: The board shall choose one of its members as the
chairperson and another member as the secretary. Each member shall reside in
the city. (Ord. 200, 6-22-1994)
2-1-3: RULES AND REPORTS:
The board may adopt, and from time to time amend, its rules and procedure. It
shall make quarterly reports of its activities to the city council. The city
attorney shall act as attorney for the board. An annual statement of its
receipts and disbursements shall be filed with the city administrator
immediately after the close of the calendar year, and shall be included as part
of the annual financial statement of the city administrator in conformity with
Minnesota statutes, section 471.695 et seq. (Ord. 125, 8-10-1970)
2-1-4: JURISDICTION:
The park board shall have jurisdiction over all park property of the city,
including park areas, ball diamonds, the skating rink, and all other property
generally considered as park or recreation property. Additionally, the park
board shall have jurisdiction over street trees (title 7, chapter 4 of this
code) and the shade tree program (title 7, chapter 3 of this code). The park
board may, with the approval of the city council, acquire land for park
purposes, but the park board shall have full, absolute and exclusive control
over all property set aside for park purposes. The park board may establish,
improve, ornament, maintain, protect, and manage the use of the parks, parkways
and recreational facilities under its jurisdiction. (Ord. 200, 6-22-1994; amd.
Ord. 241, 3-13-2006)
2-1-5: POWERS:
The park board shall have the powers granted in Minnesota statutes, section
412.521, including the following powers: (Ord. 125, 8-10-1970; amd. Ord. 200,
6-22-1994)
   A.    Personnel: (Rep. by Ord. 241, 3-13-2006)
   B.    Construction: It may construct roadways, paths, buildings, fountains,
docks, boathouses, bathhouses, refreshment booths, amusement halls, pavilions
and other necessary structures and improvements in parks. The board may, with
the consent of the city council, make contracts and leases for the construction
and operation of these facilities for terms not exceeding ten (10) years. Every
such contract and lease shall provide that the structure shall be operated for
the public use and convenience, and that the charges shall be reasonable, and
it shall reserve to the park board power to prescribe reasonable rules and
regulations from time to time for the conduct of the privilege.
   C.    Materials; Equipment: The park board may purchase all necessary
materials, supplies, equipment and services.
   D.    Maintenance: The park board shall maintain, beautify and care for park
property.
   E.    Entertainment: The park board may provide musical and free
entertainment for the general public.
   F.    Ice Removal: The park board may regulate the taking of ice from any
pond, lake or other body of water in any city park.
   G.    General Acts: The park board may perform whatever other acts are
reasonable, necessary and proper to carry out general powers granted herein.
(Ord. 125, 8-10-1970)
2-1-6: PARK BOARD FUND:
For the purpose of carrying out the powers of the park board, there shall be
established under the city general fund, a special fund to be called the park
board fund. The city council may dedicate to the park board fund such monies as
it considers necessary for park purposes. No later than September 1 of each
year the park board shall present the city council, in such detail as the city
council shall require, an estimate of the financial needs of the board for the
ensuing fiscal year. It shall, in the same manner as the city council, and to
the same extent, audit claims to be paid from the park board fund. The council
shall also audit the expenditures at their meetings and authorize payment from
the park board fund. (Ord. 241, 3-13-2006)
CHAPTER 2
AIRPORT COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-2-1: Commission Established; Membership; Terms
2-2-2: Meetings And Reports
2-2-3: Duties
2-2-4: Offenses
2-2-5: Penalty
2-2-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS:
   A.    Members: There is hereby established an Airport Commission to be known
as the Hawley Municipal Airport Commission. This Commission shall be composed
of five (5) members. The members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
approval of the City Council, but not more than two (2) of such members shall
be appointed by the Mayor from among the members of the City Council, to serve
as full members of said Commission. The members shall receive such compensation
as may be determined by the City Council.
   B.    Term: The Commission members shall be appointed for terms of three (3)
years, the appointments to be made according to the vacancies to be filled.
Vacancies shall be filled by the Mayor with the approval of the City Council
for the unexpired term.
   C.    Removal: Whenever two-thirds (2/3) of the City Council deem it in the
best interest of such airport, and its affairs, it may remove any member of the
Commission subject to a hearing. (Ord. 130, 2-21-1972; 1996 Code)
2-2-2: MEETINGS AND REPORTS:
The Commission shall make and alter such rules and regulations for its
government and the conduct of its business as is consistent with the laws
relating to cities and ordinances of the City. It shall meet at the call of the
chairman or a majority of its members, and shall keep an accurate record of all
its proceedings which shall be furnished to the City Council as soon after each
meeting as is practicable. The City Administrator shall be the secretary of the
Commission. (Ord. 130, 2-21-1972)
2-2-3: DUTIES:
   A.    The Commission shall plan, promote and encourage the development and
utilization of the Municipal Airport. It shall determine the general policies
and provide for detailed administration, maintenance, operation, management and
control of said airport and appurtenances thereto. It shall advise the City
Council on matters having to do with the acquisition of additional premises,
any and all construction and improvements thereon, and submit its proposed
budget annually before the budget meeting of the City Council. It shall also
have the further duty of consulting and cooperating with Federal, State and
other agencies dealing with aeronautics. It shall be the duty of the Commission
to see that all fees and charges due and owing to the City are properly
collected.
   B.    The Commission shall have such other powers, authority, duties or
responsibilities as the City Council may from time to time prescribe by
resolution. (Ord. 130, 2-21-1972)
2-2-4: OFFENSES:
   A.    Motor Vehicles On Runways: It shall be unlawful to operate a motor
vehicle or any other type of vehicle except for airport maintenance purposes,
upon the runways, taxiways, or aircraft parking areas, except on those sections
of the airport specifically designated for motor vehicles, or for other types
of vehicles.
   B.    Aircraft Operation: It shall be unlawful to operate an aircraft either
on or over the land or water without the consent of the owner of said aircraft.
   C.    Alcohol/Drug Use:
      1.    It shall be unlawful to operate or attempt to operate any aircraft
while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or of any narcotic or other
habit forming drug.
      2.    It shall be unlawful to knowingly permit any individual who may be
under the influence of intoxicating liquor or any narcotic or other habit
forming drug to operate any aircraft owned by such person or in his custody or
control.
   D.    Injury To Aircraft: It shall be unlawful to tamper with, climb on or
take into, make use of or navigate any aircraft without the knowledge or
consent of the owner or person having control thereof, whether the same is in
motion or at rest; or to hurl stones or any other missiles, or discharge any
gun or weapon at an aircraft or the occupants thereof, or otherwise damage or
interfere with the same or place upon any portion of any aircraft any object,
obstruction, or other device tending to injure aircraft or the parts thereof.
   E.    Reckless; Trick Flying:
      1.    It shall be unlawful to operate any aircraft carelessly or
heedlessly in disregard for the rights or safety of others or in a manner so as
to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property.
      2.    It shall be unlawful to engage in trick or acrobatic flying or in
any acrobatic feat while flying over a thickly inhabited area or over a public
gathering.
      3.    It shall be unlawful to fly at such low levels as to endanger
persons on the surface beneath except while in the process of landing or taking
off. (Ord. 130, 2-21-1972)
2-2-5: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this Chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 130, 2-21-1972; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
STAR CLUSTER COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-3-1: Short Title
2-3-2: Definitions
2-3-3: Establishment
2-3-4: Terms Of Office
2-3-5: Qualifications
2-3-6: Absence Or Removal Of Members
2-3-7: Meetings; Officers
2-3-8: Commission Staff
2-3-9: Rules And Procedures
2-3-10: Powers And Duties
2-3-11: Budget
2-3-12: Annual Report
2-3-1: SHORT TITLE:
This Chapter shall be known and may be cited as the HAWLEY STAR CLUSTER
COMMISSION ORDINANCE. (Ord. 196, 1-26-1994)
2-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and their derivations
shall have the meanings as set out herein:
CHAIRPERSON: Chairperson of the Star Cluster Commission as provided hereunder.
COMMISSION: The Star Cluster Commission of the area as created by this Chapter.
COUNCIL: The individual city councils of the individual city members.
PLANNING COMMISSION: City Planning Commission of each of the individual cities
represented.
SECRETARY: Secretary of the Star Cluster Commission as provided hereunder.
VICE CHAIRPERSON: Vice Chairperson of the Star Cluster Commission as provided
hereunder. (Ord. 196, 1-26-1994)
2-3-3: ESTABLISHMENT:
A Star Cluster Commission is hereby established to be advisory to the City
Council and Planning Commission, which Star Cluster shall have the powers and
duties hereinafter set forth. (Ord. 196, 1-26-1994)
2-3-4: TERMS OF OFFICE:
Of the twelve (12) members of the Commission first appointed representing two
(2) persons from each member city, four (4) shall be appointed for terms
expiring in January 1994, and four (4) shall be appointed for terms expiring in
January of 1996 with the remaining expiring in January 1997. Each member city
cannot have simultaneous term appointments for their two (2) members. Upon
expiration of said initial terms, future appointees shall serve three (3) one
year terms expiring in January of the appropriate year provided, however, that
members shall continue their terms until new appointments or appointments are
made by the city council representing the vacant seat. The city council
representing the vacant seat shall make appointments to the Commission at its
second official meeting in January of each year as necessary, or as soon
thereafter as it desires. Vacancies during the term shall be filled by the city
council of the vacant seat for the unexpired portion of the term. (Ord. 196, 1-
26-1994)
2-3-5: QUALIFICATIONS:
The Commission shall consist of a broad range of persons representing the
varied interests within the County. Each member city shall have two (2) members
on the Commission with no more than one member being an elected official of the
city at any given time. (Ord. 196, 1-26-1994)
2-3-6: ABSENCE OR REMOVAL OF MEMBERS:
   A.    Absence: Absence from three (3) consecutive regular meetings without
notice to the Commission shall be deemed to constitute a resignation of a
member and the vacancy thus created shall be filled thereafter by appointment
of the affected city council for the remainder of the term of the member so
deemed to have resigned.
   B.    Removal: Each city council by a four-fifths (4/5) vote of its total
members shall have the authority to remove any member of the Commission
representing that individual city from office whenever, with due cause, the
best interest of the city shall be served thereby. The Commission shall also
have the authority by a four-fifths (4/5) vote of its total members to remove
any member of the Commission, with due cause, when the best interests of the
Cluster shall be served thereby. The city council of the removed member shall
be responsible for naming a replacement person for the Commission. (Ord. 196,
1-26-1994)
2-3-7: MEETINGS; OFFICERS:
   A.    Meetings:
      1.    Regular Meetings: The Commission shall meet publicly in regular
session at least once each month at a time and place selected by the members.
      2.    Special Meetings: The chairperson or any three (3) members of the
Commission shall have the authority to call a special meeting of the
Commission. Written notice of special meetings shall be given to all members at
least forty eight (48) hours prior to the time of the meeting unless the time
and place for the special meetings is set at a regular meeting.
   B.    Officers: The Commission will name its own officers to serve at its
pleasure from the membership of the Commission. (Ord. 196, 1-26-1994; 1996
Code)
2-3-8: COMMISSION STAFF:
The Commission may receive the staff services of Clay County, the city
administrator of each individual member city, and approved by each city council
within the means provided by an appropriation made therefor by the city
council. (Ord. 196, 1-26-1994)
2-3-9: RULES AND PROCEDURES:
The Commission shall adopt a set of rules to govern its own meetings and
procedures. The rules may be amended from time to time, but only upon notice to
all members that the said proposed amendments shall be acted upon at a special
meeting. A majority vote of the Commission shall be required for the approval
of the proposed amendment. (Ord. 196, 1-26-1994)
2-3-10: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The Commission may have the following powers and duties:
   A.    To confer with and advise the City Council and Planning Commission on
all matters concerning the industrial and commercial development of each
individual city and the total cluster.
   B.    To publicize, with the consent of each city council, the industrial
and commercial advantages and opportunities of each individual city and the
total cluster.
   C.    To collect data and information as to the type of industries and
commerce best suited to each member city and the cluster.
   D.    To periodically survey the overall condition of each member city, and
the cluster, from the standpoint of determining whether the city has a
community climate for industry and to determine the general receptiveness of
the city to particular types of industry.
   E.    To publicize information as to the general advantages of industrial
and commercial development in the area.
   F.    To cooperate with all industries and businesses in each member city
and in the solution of any community problem which they may have, and to
encourage the expansion, development and management of such industries and
business so as to promote the general welfare of the area.
   G.    To cooperate with the West Central Minnesota Initiative Fund and other
available County resources in the undertaking of necessary surveys and studies
in the furtherance of commercial and industrial development.
   H.    To aid the city council and planning commission in each member city in
the proper zoning and orderly development of areas suitable for industrial and
commercial development.
   I.    To develop, compile, coordinate and publicize information such as, but
not limited to, the following:
      1.    Existing industrial and commercial concerns with each city, their
addresses, types of businesses, number of employees, and whether each serves
local, regional or national markets.
      2.    Available industrial and commercial sites, including number of
acres, approximate price, existing zoning and proximity to trackage and
highways.
      3.    Available buildings for industrial and commercial operations,
including type of building, number of square feet, existing zoning and
proximity to trackage and highways.
      4.    Transportation facilities, including railroads, motor carriers,
water transportation, air transportation and highway facilities.
      5.    Electric power availability.
      6.    Fuels available for industrial and commercial use.
      7.    Sewage disposal facilities.
      8.    Water supply facilities.
      9.    Community facilities such as fire, police and educational.
      10.    Recreational facilities.
      11.    Going wage rate in the city for the trades, skilled, semi- skilled
and white-collar workers.
      12.    Availability of labor.
      13.    General community attitude toward industrial and commercial
expansion, development and attraction.
      14.    Experience and program of surrounding suburban communities in
regard to industrial and commercial expansion development and attraction.
   J.    To recommend to the City Council and Planning Commission policies and
particular actions in regard to industrial and commercial expansion development
and attraction.
   K.    To cooperate with and use the facilities of the Minnesota Department
of Trade and Economic Development's Star Cities Program.
   L.    To cooperate and coordinate with the Initiative Fund, as described in
subsection G of this Section, and other local economic development efforts, and
local lending institutions in defining available property and assembling
financing packages for commercial and industrial prospects.
   M.    The Commission shall have the power to appoint subcommittees of a size
and nature it may deem necessary and may enlist the aid of persons and/or
organizations who are not members of the Commission. The Commission shall have
no power to make contracts, levy taxes, borrow money or condemn property, but
shall have the full power and responsibility to investigate the necessity and
recommend the taking of these and any other actions related to the industrial
and commercial development by the City Council and all other officers of the
city responsible to formulate the terms of and the procedure for taking such
action. (Ord. 196, 1-26-1994)
2-3-11: BUDGET:
The Commission shall prepare a budget listing activities and amounts to be paid
by each member city. This report will be prepared to be presented at each of
the individual city councils by August of each year. (Ord. 196, 1-26-1994)
2-3-12: ANNUAL REPORT:
The Commission shall make a report to each City Council of its activities in
December of each year. (Ord. 196, 1-26-1994)
CHAPTER 4
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-4-1: Adoption Of Statutes
2-4-2: Established
2-4-3: Members; Term Of Office
2-4-4: Compensation
2-4-1: ADOPTION OF STATUTES:
The provisions of Minnesota Statutes sections 412.331 through 412.391 are
expressly adopted. (Ord. 209, 5-20-1996)
2-4-2: ESTABLISHED:
A public utilities commission is hereby established pursuant to Minnesota
Statutes, section 412.331. The following utilities shall be within the
commission’s jurisdiction: the water system; the light and power system; and
the gas system. (Ord. 209, 5-20-1996; amd. Ord. 283, 9-14-2020)
2-4-3: MEMBERS; TERM OF OFFICE:
The Commission shall consist of three (3) members to be appointed by the
Council. There shall also be an ex officio member from the City Council on the
Commission, but shall have no right to vote on Commission matters. Members
shall serve for three (3) year terms; terms shall commence on January 1, and
expire on December 31. Members currently serving shall serve out their terms,
and any new appointments shall be made pursuant to the provisions of this
Chapter. (Ord. 209, 5-20-1996)
2-4-4: COMPENSATION:
No member of the Commission shall receive a salary except as fixed by the
Council. (Ord. 209, 5-20-1996)
CHAPTER 5
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
SECTION:
2-5-1: Definitions
2-5-2: Establishment
2-5-3: Members, Authority And Powers
2-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this Section, the following terms shall have the following
definitions:
ACT: Minnesota Statutes, sections 469.090 through 469.108.
AUTHORITY: The Hawley Economic Development Authority.
CITY: The City of Hawley, Minnesota.
COUNCIL: The duly elected governing body of the City.
ENABLING RESOLUTION: The resolution of the City Council establishing the Hawley
Economic Development Authority pursuant to the Act and all amendments hereto.
(Ord. 191, 3-8-1993)
2-5-2: ESTABLISHMENT:
   A.    Authority Created: There is hereby created in the City an Economic
Development Authority which, subject to the provisions of the enabling
resolution, shall have all of the powers, duties, and responsibilities of an
Economic Development Authority created pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, sections
469.090 through 469.108. It shall be the role and responsibility of the
Economic Development Authority to carry out economic and industrial development
and redevelopment within the City in accordance with such general policies as
may from time to time be established by the City Council pursuant to such
bylaws as may be adopted by the Authority with approval of the City Council.
   B.    Name: The Economic Development Authority created by the enabling
resolution shall be known as the Hawley Economic Development Authority. (Ord.
191, 3-8-1993)
2-5-3: MEMBERS, AUTHORITY AND POWERS:
   A.    Members: The Authority shall be comprised of all five (5) members of
the Hawley City Council who shall serve as Commissioners.
   B.    Administration: The administration of the Authority shall be
determined in the bylaws of the Authority, which bylaws to be effective shall
require approval by the City Council.
   C.    Powers: The Authority shall have such powers as may be mandated by the
Act and such powers as may be permitted by the Act and conferred by the City
Council. (Ord. 191, 3-8-1993)
CHAPTER 6
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
SECTION:
2-6-1: Commission Established
2-6-2: Planning Commission
2-6-3: Organization
2-6-4: Powers And Duties
2-6-5: Zoning Ordinances; Public Hearings
2-6-6: Plats; Approval
2-6-1: COMMISSION ESTABLISHED:
A city planning commission for the city is hereby established. The commission
shall be the city planning agency. (Ord. 221, 4-5-1999)
2-6-2: PLANNING COMMISSION:
   A.    Composition: The planning commission shall consist of seven (7)
members appointed by the mayor, with the consent of the city council. One seat
may be filled by a member of the city council on the planning commission. All
members shall reside within the city or within orderly annexation areas.
   B.    Terms: The initial appointment of the members of the planning
commission shall ensure that the terms of one or two (2) members expire
December 31 of each year. The successors shall be appointed for terms of four
(4) years. Vacancies shall be filled by appointment from the mayor, with the
consent of the city council for the remaining portion of their term. Every
member shall, before entering upon the discharge of his/her duties, take an
oath of office. All members shall serve without compensation. (Ord. 255, 1-10-
2011)
2-6-3: ORGANIZATION:
   A.    Officers: The commission shall elect a chairman from among its
appointed members for a term of one year; and the commission may create and
fill such other offices as it may determine. The city clerk/administrator or
his/her designee shall act as secretary of the planning commission.
   B.    Meetings: The commission shall hold at least one regular meeting each
quarter and special meetings are required for completion of the commission
business. It shall adopt rules for the transaction of business and shall keep a
record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, which record shall be a
public record. On or before January 1 of each year, the commission shall submit
to the city council a report of its work during the preceding year.
Expenditures of the commission shall be within amounts appropriated for the
purpose by the city council. (Ord. 221, 4-5-1999)
2-6-4: POWERS AND DUTIES:
The planning commission shall be the planning agency and shall have the powers
and duties given such agencies generally by Minnesota statutes sections 462.351
through 462.364. It shall also exercise the duties conferred upon it by this
chapter. (Ord. 221, 4-5-1999)
2-6-5: ZONING ORDINANCES; PUBLIC HEARINGS:
No zoning ordinances or amendments thereto shall be adopted by the council
until a public hearing has been held thereon by the planning commission upon
notice as provided by Minnesota statutes section 462.357, subdivision 3. (Ord.
221, 4-5-1999)
2-6-6: PLATS; APPROVAL:
Any plat of land submitted to the council for approval shall, prior to final
approval, be referred to the planning commission for review and recommendation.
Any plat so referred shall be returned to the council by the commission within
thirty (30) days, and failure of the commission to report within such period is
deemed to have satisfied the requirement of this section. (Ord. 221, 4-5-1999)
TITLE 3
BUSINESS AND LICENSE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSING
SECTION:
3-1-1: Applications
3-1-2: Persons Subject To License
3-1-3: Forms
3-1-4: Signatures
3-1-5: Investigations
3-1-6: Termination Of License
3-1-7: Building And Premises
3-1-8: Change Of Location
3-1-9: Nuisances
3-1-10: Posting Of License
3-1-11: Revocation Of License Or Permit
3-1-12: Appeal Procedure
3-1-1: APPLICATIONS:
Applications for all licenses and permits required by this Code shall be made
in writing to the City Administrator, unless otherwise specifically provided by
law. Each application shall state the name of the applicant, the permit or
license desired, the location to be used, if any, the time covered and the fee
to be paid; and each application shall contain such additional information as
may be required by the issuing official. (1996 Code)
3-1-2: PERSONS SUBJECT TO LICENSE:
Whenever in this Code a license is required for the maintenance, operation or
conduct of any business or establishment, or for doing business or engaging in
any activity or occupation, any person shall be subject to the requirement if
by himself or through an agent, employee or partner, he holds himself forth as
being engaged in the business or occupation; or solicits patronage therefor,
actively or passively; or performs or attempts to perform any part of such
business or occupation in the Municipality. (1996 Code)
3-1-3: FORMS:
Forms for all licenses and permits, and applications therefor, shall be
prepared and kept on file by the City Administrator. (1996 Code)
3-1-4: SIGNATURES:
Each license or permit issued shall bear the signatures of the Mayor and the
City Administrator in the absence of any provision to the contrary. (1996 Code)
3-1-5: INVESTIGATIONS:
Upon the receipt of an application for a license or permit where laws of the
Municipality necessitate any inspection or investigation before the issuance of
such permit or license, the City Administrator shall refer such application to
the proper officer for making such investigation within forty eight (48) hours
of the time of such receipt. The officer charged with the duty of making the
investigation or inspection shall make a report thereon, favorable or
otherwise, within ten (10) days after receiving the application or a copy
thereof. An inspection in regard to such licenses in the connection of the care
and handling of food and the preventing of nuisances and the spread of disease
shall be made by the proper City official. For the protection of health, the
Building Inspector shall make or cause to be made any such inspections relative
to the construction of buildings or other structures. All other investigations,
except where otherwise provided, shall be made by the police authority or by
some other officer designated by the Mayor. (1996 Code)
3-1-6: TERMINATION OF LICENSE:
All annual licenses shall terminate on the last day of the calendar year of the
Municipality where no provision to the contrary is made. (1996 Code)
3-1-7: BUILDING AND PREMISES:
No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit shall
be issued for any thing, or act, if the premises and building to be used for
the purpose do not fully comply with the requirements of the Municipality. No
such license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or
performance of any act which would involve a violation of the Zoning Ordinance
1  of the Municipality. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See Title 10 of this Code.
3-1-8: CHANGE OF LOCATION:
In the absence of any provision to the contrary, the location of any licensed
business or occupation, or of any permitted act, may be changed, provided ten
(10) days' notice thereof is given to the City Administrator; provided, the
building and zoning requirements of this Code are complied with. (1996 Code)
3-1-9: NUISANCES:
No business licensed or not, shall be so conducted or operated as to amount to
a nuisance in fact. (1996 Code)
3-1-10: POSTING OF LICENSE:
It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the
Municipality to keep such license posted in a prominent place on the premises
used for such business at all times. (1996 Code)
3-1-11: REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT:
Any license or permit, for a limited time, may be revoked by the Mayor and City
Council during the life of such license or permit for the violation by the
licensee or permittee of any provision relating to the license or permit, the
subject of the license or permit, or the premises occupied; such revocation may
be in addition to any fine imposed. The Mayor and the City Council shall be
authorized to summarily order the cessation of business, the closing of the
premises, and the suspension of any business license or permit for a period not
to exceed fifteen (15) days.
   A.    Hearing: Within ten (10) days after the City officials have so acted,
the Mayor shall call a hearing for the purpose of determining whether or not
the license or permit should be revoked.
   B.    Notice Of Hearing: Notice of hearing for revocation of a license or
permit shall be given in writing setting forth specifically the grounds of the
complaint and the time and place of hearing. Such notice shall be sent to the
licensee or permittee at the last known address at least five (5) days prior to
the date for the hearing.
   C.    Hearing Procedures: At the hearing, the licensee or permittee shall be
permitted counsel and shall have the right to submit evidence and cross examine
witnesses. The Mayor shall preside and shall render the decision and
recommendation.
   D.    Causes For Revocation: Business licenses and permits issued under the
ordinances of the City, unless otherwise provided, may be revoked by the Mayor
and City Council after notice and hearing as provided in subsections B and C of
this Section for any of the following causes:
      1.    Any fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for the license or permit.
      2.    Any violation by the licensee or permittee of ordinance provisions
or State law relating to the license or permit, the subject matter of the
license or permit, or the premises occupied.
      3.    Conviction of the licensee or permittee of any felony or of a
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude.
      4.    Failure of the licensee or permittee to pay any fine or penalty
owing to the City.
      5.    Refusal to permit an inspection or sampling or any interference
with a duly authorized City officer or employee while in the performance of his
duties in making such inspections, as provided in the City Code. (1996 Code)
3-1-12: APPEAL PROCEDURE:
   A.    Right To Appeal: Any applicant aggrieved by the refusal of the City to
issue a license or permit or by the revocation of a license or permit shall
have the right to appeal the City's decision to the City Council. Such appeal
shall be requested by submitting a written request to the Mayor within five (5)
days of the action of the City which is appealed. (1996 Code)
   B.    Hearing: The City Council shall consider the appeal at its next
regularly scheduled meeting, at which time the applicant shall be entitled to
present such appeal orally or in writing. The City Council shall act on the
appeal within seven (7) days of the hearing and shall either uphold the action
of the City or shall direct the issuance of a license or permit which the City
has revoked. (1996 Code)
CHAPTER 2
LIQUOR CONTROL
SECTION:
3-2-1: State Law Adopted
3-2-2: Definitions
3-2-3: Municipal Off-Sale Liquor Store
3-2-4: License Classifications; Issuance
3-2-5: Application For License
3-2-6: Investigation Of Applicant
3-2-7: License Fees
3-2-8: Term Of License
3-2-9: Responsibility For Conduct Of Business
3-2-10: Resident Manager
3-2-11: Temporary Liquor License Provisions
3-2-11-1: Temporary On-Sale 3.2 Percent Malt Liquor License
3-2-11-2: Temporary On-Sale Intoxicating Liquor License
3-2-11-3: Special Provisions For Sports Conventions Or Cultural Facilities And/
Or Community Festivals
3-2-12: Hours And Days Of Sale
3-2-13: Inspection Of Premises
3-2-14: Prohibited Acts
3-2-15: Suspension Or Revocation Of License
3-2-16: Penalty
3-2-1: STATE LAW ADOPTED:
The provisions of Minnesota Statutes, chapter 340A, with reference to the
definition of terms, applications for licenses, granting of license, conditions
of licenses, restrictions on consumption, provisions on sales, conditions of
bonds and licensees, hours of sale, and all other matters pertaining to the
retail sale, distribution and consumption of 3.2 percent malt liquor are hereby
adopted and made a part of this Chapter, except as the same may be made more
restrictive or otherwise referred to herein. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982)
3-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Terms as used in this Chapter shall mean:
BEER STORE: An establishment used exclusively for the sale of 3.2 percent malt
liquor at retail either on-sale or off-sale, or a combination of on-sale and
off-sale, and under the control of an individual owner or manager and as an
incident thereof, may also sell cigars, cigarettes, ice, all forms of tobacco,
soft drinks and/or food at retail.
CLUB: Any corporation duly organized under the laws of the State for civic,
fraternal, social or business purposes or for intellectual improvement, or for
the promotion of sports, or a congressionally chartered veterans' organization,
which shall have more than fifty (50) members and which shall, for more than a
year, have owned, hired, or leased a building or space in a building of such
extent and character as may be suitable and adequate for the reasonable and
comfortable accommodation of its members, and whose affairs and management are
conducted by the board of directors, executive committee, or other similar body
chosen by the members at a meeting held for that purpose, none of whose
members, officers, agents or employees are paid directly or indirectly any
compensation by way of profit from the distribution or sale of beverages to the
members of the club, or its guests, beyond the amount of such reasonable salary
or wages as may be fixed and voted each year by the directors or other
governing body.
HOTEL: An establishment where food and lodging are regularly furnished to
transients and which has:
   A.    A resident proprietor or manager;
   B.    A dining room serving the general public at tables and having
facilities for seating at least thirty (30) guests at one time; and
   C.    Guest rooms in the following minimum numbers: in first class cities,
fifty (50); in second class cities, twenty five (25); in all other cities, ten
(10).
INTOXICATING LIQUOR: Ethyl alcohol, distilled, fermented, spirituous, vinous,
and malt beverages containing more than 3.2 percent of alcohol by weight.
MOTEL: Any establishment having a resident proprietor or manager, wherein
consideration of payment therefor, food and lodging are regularly furnished to
transients, having as one of its features drive-in facilities whereby the
transients who are lodging therein may drive up to the unit in which they are
lodged for the night, and which maintains for the use of its guests not less
than one hundred (100) separate and distinct guest units for lodgers and which
employs an adequate staff to provide more suitable and usual service and which
maintains under the same management and control as the rest of the
establishment as an integral part thereof a dining room with appropriate
facilities for seating not less than fifty (50) guests at one time where the
general public is, in consideration of payment thereof, served with meals at
tables.
NONINTOXICATING MALT LIQUOR: Malt liquor containing not less than 0.5 percent
alcohol by volume nor more than 3.2 percent alcohol by weight.
OFF-SALE: The sale of alcoholic beverages in original packages for consumption
off the licensed premises only.
ON-SALE: The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on the licensed
premises only.
RESTAURANT: Any establishment, other than a hotel or motel under the control of
a single proprietor or manager, having appropriate facilities for the serving
of meals and for seating not less than twenty five (25) guests at one time, and
where, in consideration of payment therefor, meals are regularly served at
tables to the general public, and which employs an adequate staff to provide
the usual and suitable services to its guests. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982; amd. 1996
Code)
3-2-3: MUNICIPAL OFF-SALE LIQUOR STORE:
   A.    Establishment: There is hereby established a Municipal liquor
dispensary for the off-sale of intoxicating liquor within the City. No
intoxicating liquor may be sold at retail elsewhere in the City or by anyone
not employed in the dispensary, except that the on-sale of such intoxicating
liquor may be permitted in such clubs, hotels, motels, restaurants and other
lawful establishments as may be authorized by the City Council.
   B.    Location And Operation: The Municipal liquor dispensary shall be at
such place as the City Council shall by motion determine and may be either
leased or owned by the Municipality. It shall be in charge of a person known as
the Manager, who shall also be selected by the City Council and shall be paid
such compensation as the Council shall determine. The Manager shall have full
charge of the operation of such store, and shall have authority to purchase
supplies as are necessary and employ such additional help as he may need at a
rate of compensation to be approved by the City Council and under rules to be
determined by the Council. All employees including the Manager shall hold their
positions at the pleasure of the Council. No minor shall be employed in the
Municipal store.
   C.    Qualifications Of A Liquor Store Manager: The Manager of such liquor
store shall be a person, not less than twenty one (21) years old and a resident
of the Municipality. He shall furnish to the City before entering upon his
duties as such Manager a good and sufficient corporate surety bond in the sum
of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) conditioned upon his faithful performance
of his duties as such Manager. He shall, with the consent and approval of the
Council, designate a Deputy Manager who shall operate such Municipal liquor
store in the event of the Manager's temporary disability of inability to act as
such Manager. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982)
   D.    Creation Of Liquor Store Committee: There is hereby created a Liquor
Store Committee to be appointed annually by the Mayor. The committee is to be
composed of two (2) members of the City Council, one of whom shall act as a
Chairman of the committee. Such committee shall supervise all purchases and the
operation of the liquor store and make reports thereon to the Council and do
other such acts as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 278, 5-15-2017)
   E.    Liquor Store Fund Created: A Liquor Store Fund is hereby created into
which all revenue received from the operation of the store shall be paid, and
from which all operating expenses shall be paid; provided, that the initial
costs of rent, fixtures, and stock may be paid for out of the General Fund of
the Municipality, but such amounts shall be reimbursed to said General Fund out
of the first monies coming into the Liquor Store Fund not needed for carrying
on the said business. Any surplus accumulating in this fund may be transferred
to the General Fund by resolution of the Council and expended for any Municipal
purpose. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982)
3-2-4: LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS; ISSUANCE:
   A.    Types Of Licenses: No person except wholesalers or manufacturers, to
the extent authorized under State license, shall directly or indirectly deal
in, sell or keep for sale any intoxicating liquor without first having received
a license to do so as provided in this chapter. Licenses shall be of nine (9)
kinds: on-sale intoxicating liquor, on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor, off-sale
3.2 percent malt liquor, consumption and display, club licenses, on-sale wine
licenses, temporary 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses, temporary on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses and Sunday liquor licenses. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982;
amd. Ord. 215, 4-20-1998; Ord. 222, 4-19-1999)
      1.    On-Sale Liquor: On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses shall be
issued according to the provisions of Minnesota Statutes section 340A.413,
subdivision 4, which are incorporated by reference, and hereby specifically
incorporates the method of counting the number of licenses as stated in such
statute:
         a.    Exclusions Of License Limits: On-sale intoxicating liquor
licenses may be issued to the following entities by the City, in addition to
the four (4) on-sale intoxicating licenses allowed for a city the size of
Hawley:
            (1)    Clubs, or congressionally charted veterans' organizations;
            (2)    Restaurants;
            (3)    Establishments that are issued licenses to sell wine under
Minnesota Statutes section 340A.404, subdivision 5;
            (4)    Theaters that are issued licenses under Minnesota Statutes
section 340A.404;
            (5)    Hotels; and
            (6)    Bowling centers. (Ord. 238, 7-26-2004)
      2.    On-Sale Malt Liquor: On-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses shall
be issued to restaurants, clubs, bowling alleys, golf clubs and beer stores
only. The City Council shall determine from time to time by resolution the
number of on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses which shall be issued. (Ord.
171, 1-11-1982)
      3.    Off-Sale Malt Liquor: Off-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses
shall be issued to restaurants, clubs, bowling alleys, golf clubs and beer
stores only for the sale of 3.2 percent malt liquor on Sundays and between the
hours of ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and twelve forty five o'clock (12:45) A.M.
Monday through Saturday, and on holidays when the Municipal liquor store is
closed. The City Council shall determine from time to time the number of off-
sale 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses which shall be issued. (Ord. 222, 4-19-
1999)
      4.    Club Licenses: Club licenses shall be issued only to duly
incorporated clubs which have been in existence for a period of three (3)
years. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982; amd. 1996 Code)
      5.    On-Sale Wine: On-sale wine licenses shall be licenses authorizing
the sale of wine not exceeding fourteen percent (14%) alcohol by volume for
consumption on the licensed premises only, and only in conjunction with the
sale of food, to be issued only to restaurants with a seating capacity of at
least twenty five (25) persons and otherwise as defined as in section
3-2-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982)
      6.    Consumption And Display: Consumption and display licenses; a person
or premises, which is a business establishment, is hereby permitted to allow
the consumption or display of intoxicating liquor, or the serving of any liquid
for the purposes of mixing intoxicating liquor if such person or premises has
been issued a permit for such purpose by the Liquor Control Commissioner of the
State after the payment of an additional fee to the City per year in an amount
shown in section
3-8-1 of this title. Consumption and display licenses shall run from July 1 to
June 30. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
      7.    Special Event: Special event licenses, temporary on-sale 3.2
percent malt liquor licenses may be issued to bona fide clubs, or charitable,
religious or nonprofit organizations having their principal place of
association within the city upon terms and conditions as set forth in section
3-2-11-1 of this chapter. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982)
      8.    Social Event: Social event licenses, temporary on-sale intoxicating
liquor licenses may be issued to a club or charitable, religious or other
nonprofit organization in existence for at least three (3) years, or to a
political committee registered under Minnesota statutes 10A.14, in connection
with a social event, within the municipality, sponsored by the licensee upon
the terms and conditions as set forth in section
3-2-11-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 215, 4-20-1998)
      9.    Sunday Liquor: Sunday liquor licenses can be issued to restaurants,
clubs, bowling centers or hotels with a seating capacity for at least thirty
(30) persons and which holds an on- sale intoxicating liquor license for the
consumption on the premises in conjunction with the sale of food between the
hours of twelve o'clock (12:00) noon on Sundays and twelve forty five o'clock
(12:45) A.M. on Mondays, provided that the licensee is in conformance with the
Minnesota indoor clean air act. The additional fee for the Sunday liquor
license may not exceed the maximum amount set by state law, which may be from
time to time amended, as shown in section
3-8-1 of this title. (Ord. 222, 4-19-1999; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
   B.    Issuance; Conditions: Each license shall be issued to the applicant
only and shall be issued for the premises described in the license application.
No license may be transferred to another person or to another place without the
approval of the city council. In all events, the sale of intoxicating liquor or
3.2 percent malt liquor is forbidden at the following places:
      1.    Such places as are forbidden by state statute.
      2.    Within three hundred feet (300') of the property line of any school
or place of worship, unless a waiver is obtained from the school or place of
worship.
      3.    For any premises on which taxes, assessments, or any other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982)
   C.    On-Sale Wine Licenses: On-sale wine license holders who also are
licensed to sell 3.2 percent malt liquors at on-sale, and whose gross receipts
are at least sixty percent (60%) attributable to the sale of food, may sell
intoxicating malt liquors at on-sale without an additional on-sale license.
(Ord. 182, 11-7-1988)
3-2-5: APPLICATION FOR LICENSE:
   A.    Any person desiring to obtain a license under this chapter shall make
his verified application in writing to the city council upon such forms as the
city council from time to time shall require and as from time to time may be
required under the laws of the state and regulations of the state liquor
control commissioner, and shall file the same with the city administrator. The
application shall set forth, in addition to other information as may from time
to time be required by the city council, the following information:
      1.    The name, age, date and place of birth, and place of residence of
the applicant if an individual.
      2.    The name, state of incorporation, date of incorporation if a
corporation, and the name, age, date and place of birth, and place of residence
of all members of the board of directors, stockholders and officers of such
corporation.
      3.    If a partnership, the name of such partnership, the address of its
principal office for doing business, and the name, age, date and place of
birth, and place of residence of all members of the partnership.
      4.    The name, age, date and place of birth, and place of residence, of
the manager, principal operator, or other person who will be conducting and/or
managing the premises for which the application for license is sought.
      5.    The name, age, date and place of birth, and place of residence of
any person having any financial interest in the business other than as owner,
stockholder, director or resident manager.
      6.    The location of the premises upon which the applicant proposes to
sell such liquor and an exact description of the particular place within the
building structure where such sales are proposed.
      7.    Whether the applicant has ever been engaged in a similar business,
and if so, the location thereof and the date when so engaged.
      8.    A complete and detailed description of the nature of the business
operation to be conducted on the premises, if a license is granted.
      9.    A complete listing of any and all convictions relating to any
violations of the state law or ordinances of any jurisdiction for the use or
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor and a complete
listing of all gross misdemeanor and felony convictions whatsoever.
      10.    The applicant, his resident manager, and any other person required
by the police department, during the course of its investigation of the
applicant as hereinafter set forth, shall furnish as a part of the application,
fingerprints for aid and assistance to the police department in conducting
their investigation. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982)
   B.    Each application shall also be accompanied by a certified check, money
order, cashier's check, or cash in an amount equal to the annual license fee
for one year for the license for which the application is being made 1 . In
addition, each application made for a license shall be accompanied by a liquor
liability insurance policy covering dramshop liability as set forth in
Minnesota statutes, section 340A.801. Any license holder who operates a liquor
business without having on file at all times with the city administrator an
effective liquor liability insurance policy shall have the license immediately
revoked. (Ord. 184, 12-11-1989)
   C.    The applicant shall be bound by all of the answers and information
furnished on the application presented to the city and any falsification of
information requested on said application, or any other information required by
the city in the course of its investigation of the application or the resident
manager, shall be grounds for denial of the license and, in addition thereto,
shall be grounds for revocation of the license if the license is approved and
issued prior to the discovery of such falsification.
   D.    Unless otherwise specified, all licenses issued pursuant to this
chapter shall run from January 1 to December 31. Renewal applications shall be
submitted to the city council at least one month before the license expiration
date for review by the police department and shall contain all of the
information required for a new application under the terms and conditions of
this chapter, together with specific information as to any change in ownership,
financial backing, officers, directors or resident managers occurring since the
issuance of the license or the previous approval of the renewal of the license.
If said application for renewal is not timely received, the nonreceipt of said
application shall be grounds for nonrenewal of the license for the next license
period by the city council. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  3-2-7 of this chapter.
3-2-6: INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT:
   A.    Investigation Required: Upon receipt of application for a license,
together with the accompanying license fee and surety bond, the city
administrator shall determine if such application is in order as to content and
execution. The city administrator shall then refer the application to the city
council for review. Prior to full consideration by the city council, the
application shall be referred to the police department for an investigation of
the background and character of the applicant and any persons associated with
the applicant in the conduct of the business proposed to be licensed. The city
council may then conduct a hearing upon completion of the police department
investigation and full opportunity shall be given to the applicant to be heard
upon his application and of any other person who desires to speak for or
against the granting of the application and license. The investigation and
hearing, if required, among other things, should reveal the character and/or
reputation of the applicant for a license and applicant's ability and
willingness to comply with the terms of this chapter. Upon completion of the
investigation and report to the council, and hearing, if required, the city
council shall act and either approve or deny the issuance of said license on
the basis of said investigation, hearing and report of the city council.
   B.    Change In Resident Manager: In the event a license holder is required
by the terms of this chapter to have a designated resident manager, the license
holder shall report the change of said resident manager to the city
administrator and shall submit an application to the city administrator for
approval of said resident manager. The city administrator shall then refer the
application to the city council for review and investigation in the same manner
as the investigation for a new applicant for license. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982)
   C.    Investigation Expense: The applicant for a license shall be
responsible for the cost of the investigation conducted by the police
department in connection with the processing of the application for license.
The police department, upon completion of said investigation, shall prepare a
written statement of time and expenses incurred in conducting the investigation
and shall transmit said statement to the city council at the time the
investigation report is completed and filed with the city council. In
connection with any application for a license, a minimum fee of one hundred
dollars ($100.00) shall be charged to the applicant. All investigation fees
shall be paid by the applicant prior to the issuance of a license if the
application is approved by the city council. If the license is denied, all
investigation fees shall be deducted from the amount deposited with the city
administrator upon filing of the application and the balance of said amount to
be then returned to the unsuccessful application. This section shall not apply
to license renewals. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982; amd. 1996 Code)
3-2-7: LICENSE FEES:
   A.    The annual license fee for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, 3.2
percent malt liquor on-sale and off-sale license, on-sale wine license, and
temporary on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor license shall be as shown in section
3-8-1 of this title or as set by resolution of the city council. (Ord. 171, 1-
11-1982; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
   B.    The annual license fee for a club license shall be the same as may
from time to time be set by state law. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982)
   C.    All licenses, except consumption and display, subsection 3-2-4A6 of
this chapter, shall expire on December 31 of each year. Each license shall be
issued for a period of one year except that if a portion of the license year
has elapsed when the application is made, a license may be issued for the
remainder of the year on a pro rata fee basis. In computing such fees any
unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one month. (Ord. 171, 1-11-
1982; amd. 1996 Code)
   D.    All license fees shall be paid into the general fund of the city. Upon
rejection of any application for a license hereunder, the city administrator
shall refund the amount paid, less any investigation costs incurred by the city
as set forth herein. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982)
3-2-8: TERM OF LICENSE:
No license issued pursuant to the terms of this chapter shall be held for a
period longer than one year after its approval for issuance by the city council
without being actively used to operate a business for which the license is
obtained. In the event the license is not made active within the period of one
year from approval of its issuance, the city council may revoke said license
and any license fees paid for such license shall be nonrefundable. (Ord. 171,
1-11-1982)
3-2-9: RESPONSIBILITY FOR CONDUCT OF BUSINESS:
   A.    It shall be the responsibility of the person to whom the license is
issued, and such persons as may from time to time be designated as resident
managers, to carry out all of the terms and conditions of this chapter; and any
violations of this chapter or the laws of the state whether committed by the
person holding the license, his resident manager, or any employee of said
license holder, will be grounds for suspension, revocation or nonrenewal of the
license.
   B.    It shall be the responsibility of the person to whom the license to
operate a licensed establishment is issued, and such persons designated as
resident managers from time to time, to conduct the place of business in a
manner to maintain order and sobriety within the place of business and in the
areas adjacent to the place of business so as not to interfere with the conduct
of the business of other persons within the city. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982)
3-2-10: RESIDENT MANAGER:
   A.    If a license holder is a person other than an individual engaged in
the active day to day management of the business, such license holder shall
designate in writing to the city the name of a resident manager.
   B.    If a license holder is an individual, such individual shall be
involved in the operation of the business in the same manner as a designated
resident manager and, if not, shall designate a resident manager who will have
the same requirements as a resident manager for a person other than an
individual license holder.
   C.    In the event a designated resident manager is required under the terms
of this chapter for a license holder, the designated resident manager shall be
an individual actively engaged in the day to day management of the business and
shall have usual and customary duties and responsibilities consistent with the
direction of the operation of the business, including, but not limited to, the
authority to hire and fire employees, set operation policy, secure
entertainment, purchase inventory to be used in the operation of the business,
and such other usual and customary responsibilities. (Ord. 189, 1-13-1992)
3-2-11: TEMPORARY LIQUOR LICENSE PROVISIONS:
3-2-11-1: TEMPORARY ON-SALE 3.2 PERCENT MALT LIQUOR LICENSE:
The city council shall consider and approve or reject only written applications
from qualified organizations for a temporary on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor
license and shall make a decision upon said application only after
investigation into applicant's organization, members and past history of
operation. Each application presented to the city council shall contain the
name of an individual, who shall be a resident of the city and a member of the
applicant organization, to be responsible for the conduct of the licensee if
application is approved and a license issued by the city council. In addition,
no license shall be issued until such designated individual consents in writing
to be responsible for the conduct of the licensee organization. Applications
will be considered only at regular monthly meetings of the city council.
   A.    No license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be for a term to
exceed three (3) days.
   B.    The license may include the Sunday sale of 3.2 percent malt liquor.
(Ord. 171, 1-11-1982; amd. Ord. 215, 4-20-1998)
   C.    Each license issued pursuant to this section shall be issued for a fee
in an amount shown in section
3-8-1 of this title, payable to the city and such fee shall accompany each
application presented to the city requesting such a license. (Ord. 171, 1-11-
1982; amd. Ord. 215, 4-20-1998; Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
   D.    Each license issued pursuant to this chapter may be subject to such
added restrictions and reservations as may be directed by the council as part
of the resolution granting said license.
   E.    The use of the license authorized by this chapter shall be subject to
all of the applicable Minnesota statutes, laws and also regulations of the
liquor control commissioner of the state 1 . (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982; amd. Ord.
215, 4-20-1998)
 
Notes
1 1. M.S.A. ch. 340A.
3-2-11-2: TEMPORARY ON-SALE INTOXICATING LIQUOR LICENSE:
   A.    This license may authorize the on-sale of intoxicating liquor for
qualified organizations for not more than four (4) consecutive days, and may
authorize on-sales on premises other than premises the licensee owns or
permanently occupies. The license may provide that the licensee may contract
for intoxicating liquor catering services with the holder of a full year on-
sale intoxicating liquor license issued by any municipality. The licenses are
subject to the terms, including a license fee, imposed by the issuing
municipality.
   B.    Licenses issued under this Section are subject to all laws and
ordinances governing the sale of intoxicating liquor, except Minnesota Statutes
340A.409 and 340A.504, subdivision 3(d), and those laws and ordinances which by
their nature are not applicable. The Council, in its sole discretion, may
establish liability insurance requirements on a case-by-case basis.
   C.    The City shall not issue more than three (3) 4-day, four (4) 3-day, or
six (6) 2-day temporary licenses, in any combination not to exceed twelve (12)
days per year for the sale of alcoholic beverages to any one organization or
registered political committee within a twelve (12) month period.
The Council shall not issue more than one such temporary license to the same
organization within any thirty (30) day period.
   D.    Licenses under this Section are not valid unless first approved by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. (Ord. 215, 4-20-1998)
3-2-11-3: SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR SPORTS CONVENTIONS OR CULTURAL FACILITIES AND/
OR COMMUNITY FESTIVALS:
   A.    The City Council may authorize the holder of a retail on-sale
intoxicating liquor license issued by it or by an adjacent municipality to
dispense intoxicating liquor at any convention, banquet, conference, meeting or
social affair conducted on the premises of a sports convention or cultural
facility owned by the municipality or instrumentality thereof, having
independent policy making and appropriating authority and located within the
City. The licensee must be engaged to dispense intoxicating liquor at an event
held by the persons or organizations permitted to use the premises, and may
dispense intoxicating liquor only to persons attending the event. The license
may not dispense intoxicating liquor to any person attending or participating
in an amateur athletic event held on the premises.
   B.    The City Council may authorize a holder of a retail on-sale
intoxicating liquor license issued by said Council to dispense intoxicating
liquor off-premises at a community festival held within the City. The
authorization to sell must specify the area in which the intoxicating liquor
must be dispensed and consumed. It shall not be issued unless the licensee
demonstrates that it has liability insurance as prescribed by Minnesota
Statutes 340A.409 to cover the event. (Ord. 215, 4-20-1998)
3-2-12: HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE:
   A.    The hours and days of sale for licenses issued pursuant to the terms
of this Chapter shall be the same as those set forth in Minnesota Statutes,
chapter 340A, adopted by reference as part of this Chapter. (Ord. 171, 1-11-
1982)
   B.    No sale of any product, including, but not limited to, intoxicating
liquors, shall be made on the premises of any on- sale license holder after
twelve forty five o'clock (12:45) A.M. And that no persons, except as
hereinafter specified, shall remain on the premises of any on-sale license
holder after one o'clock (1:00) A.M. Bona fide employees of the license holder
or janitorial service may remain upon the premises after one o'clock (1:00)
A.M., but only if they are actively engaged in the cleanup operation of the
premises. No person remaining on said premises, including employees of the
premises or the license holder thereof, shall consume any intoxicating liquor
or 3.2 percent malt liquor on the licensed premises after one o'clock (1:00)
A.M. until the licensed premises can next properly be opened for business. Any
unconsumed intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor which had been served
to patrons or employees, but not consumed, shall promptly be disposed of into
the wastewater system on the premises promptly at one o'clock (1:00) A.M. No
unconsumed intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor shall be removed from
the premises for consumption in a different place by patron or employee at any
time. (Ord. 222, 4-19-1999)
3-2-13: INSPECTION OF PREMISES:
Any person holding a license to sell intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt
liquor shall agree by acceptance of the license, if the issuance of said
license is approved by the City, that the place of business will be open to
inspection by the Chief of Police or his/her designees, without notice at any
time during normal business hours. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982; amd. 1996 Code)
3-2-14: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.    Minors:
      1.    Persons Excluded From Liquor Places: No person under the age of
twenty one (21) years shall enter, frequent or loiter in any place where
intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquors are sold, dispensed or
otherwise furnished, except that such persons may enter restaurants licensed
for the sale of intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor for the sole
purpose of purchasing food for consumption on the premises and may remain
therein for such time as they are in fact purchasing and consuming food. This
Section does not prohibit such persons from entering a place where intoxicating
liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquors are sold for the sole purposes of
transacting business therein, or for the purposes of being employed as
entertainers or as employees working in conjunction with the serving of food
therein.
      2.    Buying Of Liquor For Minors: No person shall furnish intoxicating
liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor to a person under the age of twenty one (21)
years, nor shall any person allow such persons under the age of twenty one (21)
years to consume or possess intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquors in
any residential, multiple dwelling unit, hotel or motel room, or any other
premises under his control or supervision, except that the parent or guardian
of such person under the age of twenty one (21) years may furnish such
intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor to such persons in their own
residences and as otherwise permitted by State law. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982; amd.
1996 Code)
   B.    Open Containers: No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption
nor shall any person consume any intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt
liquor, nor shall any person have in his possession in an open container any
intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor on any street or in any public
place of business not licensed under this Chapter. No person shall consume, nor
shall any person have in his possession an open container of, intoxicating
liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor in any motor vehicle within the City at any
time. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982)
3-2-15: SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE:
The City Council may suspend or revoke any intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent
malt liquor license for any violation of any State law regulating the sale of
intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor. If the City Council determines
that it will consider the revocation or suspension of a license issued pursuant
to this Chapter, the City Council shall hold a public hearing in the same
manner and upon the same conditions as held upon the application of a person
for a license. The hearing shall be held no earlier than eight (8) days after
written notice of the time and place of the hearing and the nature of the
charges against the licensee have been served personally upon the licensee or
his designated resident manager. Upon completion of the hearing, the City
Council shall act upon such revocation or suspension in the same manner as on
applications for licenses as set forth herein. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982)
3-2-16: PENALTY:
In addition to the penalties of suspension or revocation, any person violating
the provisions of this Chapter shall be prosecuted in the County Court for Clay
County and, upon a conviction of such violation, be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 171, 1-11-1982; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
BINGO
SECTION:
3-3-1: Purpose
3-3-2: Definitions
3-3-3: Administration
3-3-4: Licensing Requirements
3-3-5: Conduct Of Games
3-3-6: Exemptions
3-3-7: Penalty
3-3-1: PURPOSE:
The purpose of this chapter is to closely regulate and control the conduct of
the game of bingo and to prohibit commercialization of bingo. (Ord. 165, 12-8-
1980)
3-3-2: DEFINITIONS:
Whenever the following terms appear in this Chapter, they shall have the
meanings assigned to them in this Section:
ACTIVE MEMBER: A member of the organization, eighteen (18) years of age or
older, requesting a license whose dues are paid for the current membership
period and who has been a member for at least six (6) months.
BINGO: A game where each player has a card or a board for which a consideration
has been paid, containing five (5) horizontal rows of spaces, with each row
except the central one containing five (5) figures. The central row has four
(4) figures with the word "Free" marked in the center space thereof. A player
wins a game of bingo by completing any pre-announced combination of spaces or,
in the absence of a pre-announcement of a combination of spaces, any
combination of five (5) spaces in a row, either vertical, horizontal or
diagonal.
BINGO OCCASION: A single gathering or session at which a series of one or more
successive bingo games is played.
CHECKER: A person who records the number of bingo hard cards purchased and
played during each game and records the prizes awarded to the recorded hard
cards, but does not collect the payment for the hard cards.
ELIGIBLE ORGANIZATION: Any fraternal, religious, veterans, or other nonprofit
organization which has been in existence for at least three (3) years and has
at least thirty (30) active members.
PROFIT: The gross receipts collected from one or more bingo occasions less
reasonable sums necessarily and actually expended for bingo supplies and
equipment, prizes, rent, and utilities used during the bingo occasions, bingo
license fees, and compensation to persons lawfully hired to conduct or assist
in conducting a bingo occasion. (Ord. 165, 12-8-1980; 1996 Code)
3-3-3: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.    Records:
      1.    Each licensed organization shall keep records of its gross receipts
and profits for each bingo occasion. All deductions from gross receipts from a
bingo occasion shall be documented with receipts or other records. The
distribution of profits shall be itemized as to payee, amount, and date of
payment. Records required by this Chapter shall be preserved for three (3)
years.
      2.    Gross Receipts shall be compared to the checker's records for the
bingo occasion by a person who did not sell cards for the bingo occasion. If a
discrepancy exceeding twenty dollars ($20.00) is found between the amount of
gross receipts for a bingo occasion as determined by the checker's records, and
the amount of gross receipts as determined by totaling the cash receipts, the
discrepancy shall be reported to and investigated by the City Council.
      3.    Bingo gross receipts shall be segregated from other revenues of an
organization and placed in a separate account. Each organization shall maintain
separate records of its bingo operations. The person who accounts for bingo
gross receipts and profits shall not be the same person who accounts for other
revenues of the licensed organization.
   B.    Reports:
      1.    Each licensed organization shall report monthly to its membership
its gross receipts from bingo, its profits from bingo, and the distribution of
those profits itemized as required by subsection A1.
      2.    At the time of making its first license application under this
Chapter, and on an annual basis thereafter, each licensed organization shall
file with the City Council copies of the following:
         a.    The most recently filed Department of the Treasury, Internal
Revenue Service "Return of Organization Exempt from Income Tax", Form 990, or a
comparable form if the organization is required to file the form with the
Department of the Treasury.
         b.    The most recently filed Department of the Treasury, Internal
Revenue Service "Exempt Organization Business Income Tax", Form 990-T, or a
comparable form if the organization is required to file the form with the
Department of the Treasury.
         c.    The most recently filed annual report required of charitable
organizations by Minnesota Statutes, section 309.53; provided, that an
organization that is licensed to conduct bingo but is exempt from submitting
this report to the Department of Commerce under Minnesota Statutes, section
309.53, subdivision 1a, shall nevertheless submit such a report under this
Section.
         d.    The most recently filed Minnesota Department of Commerce
"Statement of Bingo Operations". All information contained in the statement
shall be true, correct and complete to the best knowledge of the person signing
the statement.
         e.    Any lease agreements required by this Chapter, executed by the
organization in regard to premises leased for the conduct of bingo.
      3.    No person shall knowingly make a false statement in any report
required by this Section.
   C.    Use Of Bingo Receipts: No expense shall be incurred or amounts paid in
connection with the conduct of bingo, except those reasonably expended for
bingo supplies, equipment, prizes, rent or utilities used during the bingo
occasion, bingo license fees, and compensation to persons lawfully hired to
conduct or assist in conducting a bingo occasion.
   D.    Use Of Bingo Profits:
      1.    Profits from any bingo occasion shall be expended only as
authorized by a resolution recorded in the official minutes at a regular
meeting of the licensed organization and only for one or more of the following
purposes:
         a.    Benefiting persons by enhancing their opportunity for religious
or education advancement, by relieving or protecting them from disease,
suffering, or distress, by contributing to their physical well-being, by
assisting them in establishing themselves in life as worthy and useful citizens
or by increasing their comprehension of and devotion to the principles upon
which this nation was founded.
         b.    Initiating, performing or fostering worthy public works or
enabling or furthering the erection or maintenance of public structures.
         c.    Lessening the burdens borne by government or voluntarily
supporting, augmenting or supplementing services which government would
normally render the people.
         d.    The improving, expanding, maintaining or repairing of real
property owned or leased by the licensed organization.
      2.    Profits from bingo occasions shall not be expended for the erection
or acquisition of any real property, unless the City Council specifically
authorizes the expenditures after finding that the property will be used
exclusively for one or more of the purposes specified in this Section. (Ord.
165, 12-8-1980)
3-3-4: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    State Permit And City License Required; Fees:
      1.    A licensed organization may not conduct lawful gambling at any site
unless it has first obtained from the gambling control board, state of
Minnesota, a premises permit for the site. (1996 Code)
      2.    No bingo occasion shall be conducted except by an eligible
organization which has secured a license for that purpose, as provided in this
section. (Ord. 165, 12-8-1980)
      3.    A single occasion license shall be valid for twenty four (24)
calendar months from the date of issuance. (Ord. 165, 12-8-1980; amd. 1996
Code)
      4.    The single occasion license fee shall be in an amount shown in
section
3-8-1 of this title and may be amended by the council from time to time. (Ord.
246, 12-3-2007)
      5.    A license application shall be acted upon by the city council no
sooner than thirty (30) days and no later than one hundred eighty (180) days
after the date of the application.
      6.    No bingo license issued may be transferred to any other person or
organization. No bingo license shall be transferred to any location other than
the location specified in the license, without prior approval of the city
council. (Ord. 165, 12-8-1980)
   B.    Application For License: Every application for a bingo license shall
be made to the city administrator on a form supplied by the city and containing
such information as the city administrator or the city council may require. No
person shall make a false statement in an application. Copies of each
application shall be referred to the city's police chief, fire chief, and city
council/building committee for their recommendations. Each application approved
will be forwarded to the state gambling board for final approval.
   C.    Term Of License; Suspension Or Revocation: Licenses issued under this
section are valid for two (2) years and may be suspended by the state gambling
board for a violation of law or state gambling board rule or revoked for what
the board determines to be a wilful violation of law or board rule. A
revocation or suspension is a contested case under sections 14.57 to 14.69 of
the administrative procedure act.
   D.    Inspection And Investigation: Any city official or employee, having a
duty to perform with reference to a bingo license, and any police officer may
inspect and examine the bingo records of any licensed organization upon twenty
four (24) hours' notice. (Ord. 165, 12-8-1980; amd. 1996 Code)
3-3-5: CONDUCT OF GAMES:
   A.    Conduct Of Bingo:
      1.    A bingo manager, as appointed by a licensed organization, may not
serve as such manager unless the person possesses a valid gambling manager's
license issued by the gambling control board, state of Minnesota. (1996 Code)
      2.    Each licensed organization shall appoint a bingo manager to
supervise bingo occasions conducted by it. The bingo manager must be a member
of the licensed organization, with dues paid for the current membership period,
and must have been a member of the organization for at least two (2) years. The
bingo manager shall give a fidelity bond in the sum of ten thousand dollars
($10,000.00) in favor of the organization conditioned on the faithful
performance of his or her duties. Terms of the bond shall provide that notice
shall be given in writing to the city council not less than thirty (30) days
prior to its cancellation. Each bingo occasion shall be conducted under the
direct supervision of the bingo manager, who shall be responsible for the
conduct of the bingo occasion in compliance with all applicable laws and
ordinances. No person shall act as bingo manager for more than one
organization.
      3.    One or more checkers shall be engaged for each bingo occasion. The
checkers shall be active members of the licensed organization or spouses of
active members of the licensed organization. The checker or checkers shall
record the number of cards purchased and played in each game prior to the
completion of each game and record the prizes awarded to the recorded cards.
Each checker shall certify all figures which he or she has recorded as accurate
and correct to the best of his or her knowledge, on forms prescribed by the
city administrator.
      4.    Additional persons may be engaged for other duties in connection
with bingo occasions as needed, but no person shall assist in the conduct of a
bingo occasion who is not an active member of the licensed organization, or the
spouse of an active member of the licensed organization.
      5.    No person shall receive more than twenty dollars ($20.00) as
compensation for any duties in connection with any one bingo occasion.
      6.    No more than one hundred four (104) bingo occasions each year or
two (2) bingo occasions each week shall be conducted by any licensed
organization, except that the City Council may authorize up to two (2)
additional bingo occasions (per week) to be conducted by a licensed
organization, upon a finding by the City Council that such additional bingo
occasions will not defeat the purposes of this Chapter.
      7.    A bingo occasion must continue for at least one and one-half (11/2)
hours, but not more than four (4) hours. (Ord. 165, 12-8-1980; 1996 Code)
   B.    Bingo On Leased Premises:
      1.    Any person, corporation or eligible organization, which leases any
premises that it owns to two (2) or more eligible organizations for purposes
including the conduct of bingo occasions, shall not allow more than four (4)
bingo occasions to be conducted on the premises in any week.
      2.    Any eligible organization which leases any premises to one or more
other eligible organizations for purposes including the conduct of bingo
occasions shall use the proceeds of the rental, less reasonable sums for
maintenance, furnishings and other necessary expenses, only for the uses for
which bingo profits may be used, as set out in subsection 3-3-3D. Not less than
once each year the lessor organization shall report to the City Council the
disposition of all receipts which it has received during the reporting period
from the rental of its facilities to other organizations for purposes including
the conduct of bingo occasions.
      3.    No eligible organization shall conduct bingo on any leased premises
without a written lease for a term of at least equal to the remainder of the
term of the bingo license of the lessee organization. Lease payments shall be
at a fixed monthly rate, or rate per bingo occasion, not subject to change
during the term of the lease. No such lease shall provide that rental payments
be based on a percentage of receipts or profits from bingo occasions.
   C.    Prizes:
      1.    Prizes for a single bingo game shall not exceed one hundred dollars
($100.00) except prizes for a game of the type commonly known as the "cover-
all" game. "Cover-all" prizes may exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00);
provided, that the aggregate value of prizes for a bingo occasion shall not
exceed five hundred dollars ($500.00). The aggregate value of prizes for a
bingo occasion shall not exceed two thousand five hundred dollars ($2,500.00)
except in that case of a bingo occasion during which a "cover-all" game is
played for a maximum prize of more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) but not
less than five hundred dollars ($500.00), the aggregate value of prizes for the
bingo occasion shall not exceed three thousand dollars ($3,000.00). Merchandise
prizes shall be valued at fair market retail value.
      2.    Each bingo winner shall be determined and every prize shall be
awarded and delivered the same day on which the bingo occasion is conducted.
(Ord. 165, 12-8-1980)
3-3-6: EXEMPTIONS:
Bingo may be conducted without complying with the requirements of subsections
3-3-5A6, 3-3-5A7 and 3-3-5B if conducted:
   A.    In connection with the County fair conducted by the County
Agricultural Society or in connection with a civic celebration recognized by
resolution of the City Council; provided, that the bingo shall not be conducted
for more than twelve (12) days during any one County fair or recognized civic
celebration, or
   B.    By an organization that conducts fewer than four (4) bingo occasions
in any calendar year. (Ord. 165, 12-8-1980; 1996 Code)
3-3-7: PENALTY:
Violation of any provision of this Chapter shall be a misdemeanor. A person
convicted of violating any provision of this Chapter shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 165, 12-8-1980; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
GAMBLING
SECTION:
3-4-1: Definitions
3-4-2: Hawley Charitable Gambling Fund
3-4-3: Donation Required
3-4-4: Reports
3-4-5: Suspension, Revocation, Nonrenewal Of Licenses
3-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
   A.    Generally: The terms contained in this Chapter shall have the meaning
ascribed to them by Minnesota Statutes, section 349.11 et seq., and any
successor statutes dealing with regulation of lawful charitable gambling.
   B.    Net Profits: "Net profits" are defined as those profits less allowable
expenses under the laws and regulations of the State of Minnesota, relating to
lawful gambling. (Ord. 188, 1-13-1992)
3-4-2: HAWLEY CHARITABLE GAMBLING FUND:
   A.    Fund Created: There is hereby created a Hawley Charitable Gambling
Fund which shall be held for safekeeping by the City in an account separate
from any City funds. Such funds shall be deposited in a bank account designated
"Hawley Charitable Gambling Fund". No expenditures shall be made from such Fund
except upon resolution by the City Council, and then only for "lawful purposes"
as defined by Minnesota Statutes, section 349.12, subdivision 25.
   B.    Contributions To Fund: Each organization within the City which is
licensed by the State to conduct lawful gambling shall contribute ten percent
(10%) of its net profit as defined by Minnesota Statutes, section 349.213 to
the Hawley Charitable Gambling Fund. (Ord. 188, 1-13-1992)
3-4-3: DONATION REQUIRED:
Any organization licensed to conduct lawful gambling within the City shall
donate ten percent (10%) of its net profits from the conduct of lawful gambling
to the special Hawley Charitable Gambling Fund. Such donations shall be made
within fifteen (15) days at the end of each calendar quarter. For purposes of
this Chapter, a calendar quarter shall be deemed to end at eleven fifty nine
o'clock (11:59) P.M. on the last day of March, June, September and December.
(Ord. 188, 1-13-1992)
3-4-4: REPORTS:
All organizations conducting lawful gambling within the City shall provide the
City Administrator with copies of all reports it provides to the State
Charitable Gambling Control Board. (Ord. 188, 1-13-1992; 1996 Code)
3-4-5: SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, NONRENEWAL OF LICENSES:
If any organization shall fail to make the payments required by this Chapter or
fail to provide the City Administrator with reports as required by this
Chapter, such failure shall be grounds for the City to recommend to the State
Charitable Gambling Control Board that the gambling license for such
organization be suspended, revoked or not renewed. (Ord. 188, 1-13-1992; 1996
Code)
CHAPTER 5
CABLE TELEVISION FRANCHISE
SECTION:
3-5-1: Definitions
3-5-2: Grant Of Authority
3-5-3: Compliance With State And Federal Laws
3-5-4: Terms, Fees And Administration
3-5-5: Subscriber Regulations; Rates
3-5-6: Operation And Channel Requirements; Liability
3-5-7: Construction Standards; Public Improvements
3-5-8: Renegotiation Of Franchise Terms
3-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
CLASS IV CHANNEL: A signaling path provided by a cable communications system to
transmit signals of any type from a subscriber terminal to another point in the
cable communications system.
FCC: The federal communications commission of the United States.
FRANCHISEE: A cable communications system operator as identified and authorized
by Hawley council resolution.
FRANCHISOR: The city of Hawley.
MAY: The word "may" allows discretion.
SHALL: The word "shall" is always mandatory. (Ord. 245, 11-5-2007)
3-5-2: GRANT OF AUTHORITY:
The franchisor does hereby create, grant and establish a full and complete
nonexclusive franchise for a period of ten (10) years for the installation,
operation and maintenance of a cable communications system within the city of
Hawley, to an entity to be identified by resolution of the city council. (Ord.
245, 11-5-2007)
3-5-3: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAWS:
   A.    The franchise shall conform with all state laws, rules and regulations
regarding cable communications not later than one year after their promulgation
and conform to all federal laws and regulations regarding cable TV as they
become effective.
   B.    In the event any change to local, state or federal law occurring
during the term of this franchise eliminates the requirement for any persons
desiring to construct, operate or maintain a cable system in the city of Hawley
to obtain a franchise from the franchisor for the construction, operation or
maintenance of a cable system, and a competitor enters the market, then, at
franchisee's sole option, franchisee shall have the right to obtain the same
terms of operation as such competitor.
   C.    Furthermore, in the event any change to local, state or federal law
occurring during the term of this franchise materially alters the regime of
cable franchising applicable to any persons desiring to construct, operate or
maintain a cable system in the city of Hawley in a way that reduces the
regulatory or economic burdens for such persons, then, at franchisee's sole
option, franchisee shall have the right immediately to amend this franchise to
take advantage of such regime change to similarly reduce the regulatory or
economic burdens on franchisee.
   D.    It is the intent of this section that, at franchisee's election,
franchisee shall be subject to no more burdensome regulation under this
franchise than any other persons that might construct, operate or maintain a
cable system in the city of Hawley. (Ord. 245, 11-5-2007)
3-5-4: TERMS, FEES AND ADMINISTRATION:
   A.    Franchise Fee: At any time, the city council may impose a franchise
fee as shown in section
3-8-1 of this title as a percentage of the gross revenues derived by the
franchisee from the operation of its cable system within the city limits. The
term "gross revenues" shall mean all revenues derived from subscriber rates
approved in subsection 3-5-5B of this chapter or as the same may be from time
to time amended pursuant to the terms of this chapter. (Ord. 245, 11-5-2007;
amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
   B.    Access To Financial Records: The franchisor shall have the authority
to audit the franchisee's accounting and financial records upon reasonable
notice and require that the franchisee file with the franchisor annual reports
of gross subscriber revenues and other information as the franchisor deems
appropriate, subject to franchisor's agreement to maintain such information
confidential to the extent permitted by the Minnesota data practices act.
   C.    Municipal Right To Purchase: Upon expiration of the franchise term, or
upon revocation of the franchisor or upon other termination of the franchise as
provided for in state or federal law or upon receipt of an application from the
franchisee for approval of an assignment or transfer of the franchise, the
franchisor shall have the first right to purchase a system upon the same terms
and conditions as have been negotiated between the franchisee and a proposed
purchaser.
   D.    Transferability: This franchise shall be deemed nontransferable;
provided, that any assignment or transfer of the same may take place with the
consent of the franchisor, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   E.    Termination; Hearing:
      1.    Violation Of Provisions: The franchisor may terminate and cancel
the franchise and all rights and privileges of the franchise in the event that
the franchisee substantially violates any provisions of the franchise ordinance
or any rule, order or determination of the franchisor or attempts to evade any
of the provisions of the franchise ordinance or practices any fraud or deceit
upon the municipality.
      2.    Notice Requirements: The franchisor shall provide the franchisee
with a written notice of the cause for termination and its intention to
terminate the franchise and shall allow the franchisee a minimum of thirty (30)
days subsequent to receipt of the notice in which to correct the violation.
      3.    Hearing: The franchisee shall be provided with an opportunity to be
heard and to present any and all relevant evidence and testimony at a public
hearing before the governing body of the franchisor prior to the termination of
the franchise.
      4.    Appeal: In the event that the franchisor determines to terminate
the franchise, the franchisee shall have a period of thirty (30) days beginning
the day next following the date of the conclusion of the public hearing at
which the termination of the franchise is considered within which to file an
appeal to a court of competent jurisdiction. If an appeal is taken, the
franchise shall remain in full force and effect, unless the term thereof sooner
expires.
   F.    Procedure Upon Termination: Upon termination or forfeiture of the
franchise, the franchisee shall, upon request of franchisor, remove its cables,
wires, and all other appliances relating to the cable communications system
from the streets, alleys and other public places within the franchise area, and
in the event of failure to do so, the following procedure shall be followed:
The franchisor may remove or have removed the cable, wires and all other
appliances relating to the cable communications system, the cost of such
removal to be charged to the franchisee. Franchisee shall also pay to
franchisor the cost of the attorney fees incurred in the cost of the
enforcement of this provision.
   G.    Franchise Administrator: The city clerk, or such other city official
as may be officially designated by resolution of the city council from time to
time during the period of the franchise, shall be responsible for the
continuing administration of this franchise.
   H.    Abandonment: The franchisee may not abandon any portion of the cable
communications service provided hereunder without having given three (3)
months' prior notice to the franchisor. Further, franchisee may not abandon any
portion of the distribution system without compensating the franchisor for
damages resulting from the abandonment.
   I.    Citizen's Advisory Body: The franchisor shall appoint a citizen's
advisory body to monitor the performance of the franchisee in executing the
provision of the franchise. It is understood that the advisory body may be a
joint undertaking by every municipality now served by the franchisee or that
eventually is served by the franchisee from a single head and as long as at
least one citizen from each municipality is represented on the committee. The
advisory body shall perform at least the following functions:
      1.    The advisory body shall submit an annual report to the franchisor
and the franchisee, assessing the franchisee's performance according to the
terms of the franchise and make recommendations to the franchisor regarding the
apparent or likely need for upgrading the system to meet the current state of
the art.
      2.    The advisory body shall submit a report to the franchisor three (3)
months prior to the expiration of a franchise. The report shall include a
written appraisal of the performance of the franchisee over the entire length
of the franchise with regard to the provisions of the franchise. The report
shall also include recommendations for revised or additional provisions of the
franchise, considering at least the following items:
         a.    Channel capacity.
         b.    Public access channel, with recording and broadcast equipment
and staff assistance provided by franchisee, to be located in a room provided
by franchisor.
         c.    Two-way capability.
         d.    The need for further service to be extended within the
franchised area. Need is to be determined by a reassessment of the
communications needs of the municipality in relation to services generally
offered by the cable industry. (Ord. 245, 11-5-2007)
3-5-5: SUBSCRIBER REGULATIONS; RATES:
   A.    Subscriber Privacy:
      1.    Franchisee shall at all times comply with the requirements of 47
USC section 551. In addition, as required by Minnesota statutes section 238.084
(s), no signals of a class IV cable communications channel may be transmitted
from a subscriber terminal for purposes of monitoring individual viewing
patterns or practices without the express written permission of the subscriber.
The request for permission must be contained in a separate document with a
prominent statement that the subscriber is authorizing the permission in full
knowledge of its provisions. The written permission must be for a limited
period of time not to exceed one year, which is renewable at the option of the
subscriber. No penalty may be invoked for a subscriber's failure to provide or
renew the authorization. The authorization is revocable at any time by the
subscriber without penalty of any kind.
      2.    Except to the extent required by applicable state and federal law,
no information or data obtained by monitoring transmission of a signal from a
subscriber terminal, including, but not limited to, lists of the names and
addresses of such subscribers shall be sold or otherwise made available to any
party other than to the company and its employees for internal business use,
and also to the subscriber subject of that information, unless the company has
received specific written authorization from the subscriber to make such data
available.
   B.    Subscriber Rates:
      1.    The franchisor may regulate rates for the provision of cable
service, equipment, or any other communications service provided over the
system to the extent allowed under federal or state law(s). In exercising its
jurisdiction to regulate such rates, franchisor will adhere to regulations
adopted by the federal communications commission at 47 CFR section 76.900 et
seq.
      2.    A list of franchisee's current subscriber rates and charters shall
be maintained on file with franchisor and shall be available for public
inspection. Franchisee shall give franchisor and subscribers written notice of
any change in a rate or charge no less than thirty (30) days prior to the
effective date of the change.
      3.    In the event that franchisor elects to exercise its jurisdiction
over rates charged for cable service, equipment, or any other communications
service, it shall, after notice, hold a public hearing for the consideration of
views of interested parties with respect to initial rates filed and any
subsequent proposed changes in rates charged per basic cable service or
equipment.
      4.    Franchisee shall file with franchisor any standard form residential
subscriber contract utilized by franchisee. If no such written contract exists,
franchisee shall file with the franchisor a document completely and concisely
stating the length and terms of the subscriber contract offered to customers.
The length and terms of any subscriber contract(s) shall be available for
public inspection in municipality.
   C.    Repairs And Complaints:
      1.    The franchisee shall provide a toll free telephone number for
subscriber complaints and shall maintain a repair service capable of responding
to subscriber complaints or requests for service within twenty four (24) hours
after receipt of the complaint or request.
      2.    Whenever it is necessary to shut off or interrupt services for the
purpose of making repairs, adjustments or installation, the franchisee shall do
so during periods of minimum use by subscribers. Unless such interruption is
unforeseen, the franchisee shall give reasonable notice thereof to the
subscribers affected. All costs incurred in making such repairs, adjustments or
installation shall be borne by the franchisee unless otherwise provided for in
this chapter or subscriber contract.
      3.    All complaints by the franchisor, subscribers or other citizens
regarding the quality of service, equipment, malfunction, billing disputes, and
any other matters relative to the cable television system shall be investigated
by the franchisee within twenty four (24) hours. The franchisee shall rectify
the cause of the complaint if reasonably possible. If a subscriber or citizen
complaint cannot be resolved within ten (10) days, the complainant may then
file the complaint with the city clerk who shall inform the Hawley citizen's
advisory board that the franchisee and complainant have been unable to resolve
the complaint. (Ord. 245, 11-5-2007)
3-5-6: OPERATION AND CHANNEL REQUIREMENTS; LIABILITY:
   A.    Operating Standards:
      1.    The system shall deliver to the subscriber's terminal a signal that
is capable of producing a black and white or colored picture without visual
material degradation in quality within the limitations imposed by the technical
state of the art.
      2.    The system shall transmit or distribute signals without causing
objectionable cross modulation in the cables or interfering with other
electrical or electronic networks or with the reception of other television or
radio receivers in the area not connected to the network.
   B.    Technical Standards: The franchisee shall, as a minimum, adhere to the
applicable technical standards promulgated by the FCC relating to cable
communications systems contained in subpart K of part 76 of the FCC rules and
regulations relating to cable communications systems as the same now provides
and may from time to time be amended. The results of any tests required by the
FCC shall be filed within ten (10) days of the conducting of such tests with
the franchisor.
   C.    Program Equipment:
      1.    Program Equipment Defined: "Program equipment (PEG)" shall be
defined as all equipment necessary to broadcast programming from the school
location and city hall location including state of the art DVD/VCR player,
input processor, input signal processor, sublow NTSC modulator output,
character generator, computer programs and two (2) professional digital
camcorders. The cost of the equipment required to be provided to the city of
Hawley shall be limited to a sum of ten thousand dollars ($10,000.00) during a
five (5) year period beginning on the adoption hereof. The ten thousand dollar
($10,000.00) cap on expenses shall include the expenses of equipment provided
in subsections C2 and C3 of this section.
      2.    PEG Capabilities: The franchisee shall, as a condition of this
franchise, provide the franchisor with the "PEG" to provide the city of Hawley
with the capability to broadcast city council meetings, the Hawley High School
to originate programming and a dedicated return line from Hawley High School at
no charge. All "PEG" shall be state of the art equipment. Ownership of the
equipment will stay with franchisee.
      3.    Playback Equipment: The franchisee shall also make readily
available for public use upon need being shown at least the minimal equipment
necessary to perform good quality playback of prerecorded programming, and to
make it possible to record programs at remote locations with battery operated
portable equipment. Need shall be determined by the city council based upon a
written report prepared by the franchisor specifying the equipment and needs to
be met. If franchisee and franchisor cannot agree on the extent of and need for
"equipment necessary to perform good quality playback" the franchisee shall be
provided no less than fourteen (14) days' advance written notice of such report
and shall have the opportunity to testify and submit written comments regarding
such report at a public hearing before the city council. Any imposition of a
capital assessment by franchisor against franchisee shall occur by vote of the
city council following said public hearing.
      4.    Access Fee: Any capital expense incurred by the franchisee pursuant
to subsection C2 of this section may be identified as a separate line item on
each regular subscriber bill as an "access fee" consistent with 47 USC section
542(g)(2)(c) and 47 CFR 76.985. The franchisee shall on a biennial basis (every
2 years) provide verification that the access fee has been expended solely in
support of capital costs consistent with 47 USC section 542(g)(2)(c).
   D.    Two-Way Capability: The franchisee shall provide a cable
communications system having the technical capacity for the incorporation of
nonvoice return communications which, for the purpose of this rule, shall mean
the provision of appropriate system design techniques with the installation of
cable and amplifiers suitable for the subsequent insertion of necessary
nonvoice communication modules:
      1.    In the case of the initial franchise, the franchisee shall provide
a cable communication system having the technical capacity for nonvoice
communications.
      2.    When the franchise is renewed, sold, or transferred and is served
by a system that does not have the technical capacity for nonvoice return
communications, the franchising authority shall determine when and if the
technical capacity for nonvoice return communications is needed after
consultation with the appropriate regional development commission and
appropriate public proceedings at the municipal level giving reasonable notice
and a reasonable opportunity to be heard.
   E.    Channel Capacity: The franchisee shall provide a cable communications
system having a minimum seventy two (72) MHz of bandwidth (the equivalent of 30
television broadcast channels).
   F.    Community Access Channels:
      1.    The franchisee shall provide to each of its subscribers who receive
all, or any part of, the total services ordered on the system, reception of one
specially designated access channel available for use by the general public on
a first come, nondiscriminatory basis. Channel time and playback of prerecorded
programming in this specially designated access channel shall be provided
without charge to the general public; however, personnel, equipment, and
production costs may be assessed for live studio presentations exceeding five
(5) minutes in length. Charges for such production costs shall be consistent
with the goal of affording the public a low cost means of television access.
The VHF spectrum shall be used for the specially designated access channel.
      2.    The franchisee shall also provide access to the community access
channel at city hall so as to allow city hall to post emergency information on
the community access channel when needed.
      3.    The specifically designated access channel may be used by local
educational authorities and local government on a first come, nondiscriminatory
basis during those hours when the channel is not in use by the general public.
      4.    The franchisee may also use this specifically designated access
channel for local origination during those hours when the channel is not in use
by the general public, local education authorities, local government or
commercial users who have leased time on this specifically designated access
channel.
      5.    Whenever the specifically designated access channel is in use
during eighty percent (80%) of the weekdays (Monday–Friday) for eighty percent
(80%) of the time during any consecutive three (3) hour periods for six (6)
weeks running, and there is demand for use of an additional channel for the
same purpose, the franchisee shall have six (6) months in which to provide a
new specially designated access channel; provided, that provision of such an
additional channel shall not require the cable system to install converters.
However, nothing in this provision shall be construed to preclude the
installation of converters by the system on a voluntary basis or as a result of
an agreement arrived at through negotiation between parties of this franchise
or by a potential access user who wishes to install converters in order to make
use of an additional channel or channels.
      6.    The franchisee and franchisor shall jointly establish rules
pertaining to the content of playback programming on the specially designated
access channel.
   G.    Liability:
      1.    The franchisee shall indemnify and hold harmless the franchisor
with regard to all legal damages and penalties which may result from the
exercise of this franchise at all times during the term of the franchise and
shall maintain throughout the term of the franchise liability insurance in an
amount to be determined by city council resolution from time to time during the
time this franchise remains in full force and effect; however, to be in an
amount of at least one million dollars ($1,000,000.00) single limit coverage
for bodily injury and property damage upon the effective date of this chapter.
The franchisor shall be named as an additional insured on the franchise
liability insurance policy and a certificate of insurance shall be filed with
the franchise administrator as designated by the city council. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the franchisee shall not be obligated to indemnify the
franchisor for any damages, liability or claims resulting from the wilful
misconduct or negligence of the franchisor or for the franchisor's use of the
cable system, including any PEG channels.
      2.    Nothing contained in the franchise shall relieve any person from
liability arising out of the failure to exercise reasonable care to avoid
injury to the franchisee's facilities while performing any work connected with
grading, regrading, or changing the line of any street or public place or with
the construction or reconstruction of any sewer or water system.
   H.    Special Testing: Special testing will not be ordered by the franchisor
until a petition has been presented to the citizen's advisory body requesting
such testing, and after the citizen's advisory body has held a hearing on that
request. In the event that special testing is determined to be required by the
franchisee to determine the source of technical difficulties, the cost of said
testing shall be borne by the franchisee if the testing reveals the cable
company to be responsible. If the testing reveals the difficulties to be caused
by factors which are beyond the cable company's control, the cost of testing
shall be borne by the franchisor. (Ord. 245, 11-5-2007)
3-5-7: CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS; PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS:
   A.    Construction Standards:
      1.    The franchisee shall not open or disturb the surface of any street,
sidewalk, driveway or public place without first obtaining a permit from the
proper authority, for which permit the franchisor may impose a reasonable fee
to be paid by the franchisee. The lines, conduits, cables and other property
placed in the streets and public places pursuant to such permit shall be
located in the streets or portions of the streets and public places as shall be
determined by the proper authority. The franchisee shall, upon completion of
any work requiring the opening of any street or public places restore the same,
including the pavement and its foundations, to as good a condition as formerly,
and in a manner and quality approved by the proper municipal authority, and
shall exercise reasonable care to maintain the same thereafter in good
condition. Such work shall be performed with due diligence and if the
franchisee shall fail to perform work promptly, to remove all dirt and rubbish
and to put the street or public place back into good condition, the franchisor
shall have the right to put the street or public place back into good condition
at the expense of the franchisee and the franchisee shall, upon demand, pay to
the franchisor the cost of such work done or performed, together with an
additional sum as liquidated damages to be determined by the franchisor.
      2.    All wires, conduits, cable and other property and facilities of the
franchisee shall be so located, constructed, installed and maintained as not to
endanger or unnecessarily interfere with the usual and customary trade, traffic
and travel upon the streets and public places of the franchise area. The
franchisee shall keep and maintain all of its property in good condition, order
and repair so that the same shall not menace or endanger the life of property
or person. The franchisor shall have the right to inspect and examine at any
reasonable time and upon reasonable notice the property owned or used, in part
or in whole, by the franchisee. The franchisee shall keep accurate maps and
records of all of its facilities and furnish copies of such maps and records as
requested by the franchisor.
      3.    All wires, cables, amplifiers and other property of the franchisee
shall be constructed and installed in an orderly and workmanlike manner. All
cables and wires shall be installed, where possible, parallel with electric and
telephone lines. Multiple cable configurations shall be arranged in parallel
and bundled with due respect for engineering consideration.
      4.    Franchisee shall at all times comply with applicable FCC or other
federal, state and local regulations. In any event, the system shall not
endanger or interfere with the safety of persons or property in the franchise
area or other areas where the franchisee may have equipment located.
   B.    Authorization To Commence Construction: Permission by franchisor for
commencement of construction of the cable communications system authorized
herein is granted herewith, subject to franchisee giving franchisor reasonable
notice of the proposed construction thereof, so as to coordinate all work
between franchisor and franchisee.
   C.    Public Improvements: Whenever the franchisor shall undertake any
public improvement which affects cable communications equipment, it shall, with
due regard to reasonable working conditions, direct the franchisee to remove or
relocate its wires, conduits, cables and other property located in said street,
right of way or public place. The franchisor shall give the franchisee
reasonable notice of the undertaking of public improvements which affect the
franchisee's cable communications equipment. (Ord. 245, 11-5-2007)
3-5-8: RENEGOTIATION OF FRANCHISE TERMS:
   A.    Renewal: Any renewal of this franchise shall be performed in
accordance with applicable laws. The term of any renewed franchise shall be
limited to a period not to exceed ten (10) years.
   B.    Sale Or Transfer Of Franchise Or Stock: No sale or transfer of the
franchise or sale or transfer of stock so as to create a new controlling
interest shall be made, except at the approval of the franchising authority,
which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, and that such sale or
transfer is completed pursuant to applicable state or federal law. (Ord. 245,
11-5-2007)
CHAPTER 6
ELECTRIC UTILITY FRANCHISE
SECTION:
3-6-1: Franchise Required
3-6-2: Term
3-6-3: Franchise Fee
3-6-4: Electric Utility Franchise Granted
3-6-1: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided by law, no person, firm or corporation shall
transmit, furnish, deliver or receive, or cause to be transmitted, furnished,
delivered or received electric energy for light, power, heat and other purposes
for public and/or private use within and through the limits of the city, or
place or maintain any permanent or semipermanent fixtures in, over, upon or
under any street or public place for the purpose of operating a public utility
or transmitting, furnishing, delivering or receiving, or causing to be
transmitted, furnished, delivered or received electric energy or for any other
purpose, except pursuant to a franchise from the city. A franchise shall be
granted only by ordinance. Every ordinance granting a franchise shall contain
all the terms and conditions of the franchise. The grantee shall bear the costs
of publication of the franchise ordinance and shall make a sufficient deposit
with the city clerk to guarantee publication before the ordinance is passed.
(Ord. 210, 5-20-1996)
3-6-2: TERM:
No perpetual franchise or privilege shall ever be created, nor shall any
exclusive franchise or privilege be granted for a period of more than twenty
five (25) years. (Ord. 210, 5-20-1996)
3-6-3: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.    As a part of any franchise ordinance adopted, the city may impose upon
the grantee a franchise fee. The franchise fee shall be expressed as a
specified charge per kilowatt hour of electric energy transmitted, furnished,
delivered or received, which fee shall be calculated by the city council and
imposed upon each kilowatt hour of electric energy transmitted, furnished,
delivered or received within the city. The franchise fee may be changed by
ordinance from time to time; however, no change shall be adopted until at least
thirty (30) days after written notice enclosing such proposed ordinance has
been served upon the grantee by certified mail. The franchise fee may not be
changed more often than once in each calendar year. (Ord. 210, 5-20-1996)
   B.    The franchise fee for the delivery of electric service shall be in an
amount as shown in section
3-8-1 of this title. (Ord. 219, 9-8-1998; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
3-6-4: ELECTRIC UTILITY FRANCHISE GRANTED:
   A.    Definitions: In this section, the following terms shall mean:
CITY: The city of Hawley.
CITY ADMINISTRATOR: The city administrator of the city of Hawley.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Hawley.
FRANCHISEE: Hawley public utilities commission.
NOTICE: A writing served by any party or parties on any party or parties. In
case of the franchisee, notice shall be mailed to P.O. Box 69, Hawley, MN
56549. In the case of the city, notice shall be mailed to the city
administrator at P.O. Box 69, Hawley, MN 56549.
   STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES: The streets, avenues, alleys, parkways, roads,
squares, parks, bridges, viaducts, utility easements and public places in the
city. (Ord. 212, 5-20-1996)
   B.    Grant Of Franchise: The city hereby grants to the franchisee, for a
period extending to January 31, 2040, the right to transmit, furnish, deliver
or receive electric energy within the limits of the city as they now exist or
as they may be extended or revised in the future. For those purposes,
franchisee may establish the necessary facilities and equipment in and along
the streets and public places within the city. The franchisee may also do
reasonable things necessary or customary to accomplish those purposes, subject,
however, to the further provisions of this franchise. (Ord. 268, 10-20-2014,
eff. 1-31-2015)
   C.    Nonexclusive Franchise: This is not an exclusive franchise.
   D.    Construction Of Facilities:
      1.    The franchisee will give reasonable written notice to the city
administrator of its plan to construct facilities in any part of the city.
Construction of facilities shall be in accord with established city codes and
ordinances.
      2.    Franchisee shall not open or disturb any street or public place for
any purpose without first having obtained permission to do so from the city
administrator. The location of facilities in, under, upon or over any street or
public place shall be approved by the city administrator. Franchisee shall,
upon completion of any work requiring the opening of any street or public
place, or during construction if ordered by the city administrator, restore the
same, including paving and foundations, to as good a condition as formerly and
shall maintain the same for two (2) years thereafter in good condition. Said
work shall be performed with due diligence and if the franchisee shall fail
promptly to perform and complete the work, to remove all dirt and rubbish and
to put the street or public place or the area adjacent to the street or public
place in good condition, the city shall have the right to put the street or
public place in good condition at the expense of the franchisee; and the
franchisee shall, upon demand, pay to the city the cost of such work done for
or performed by the city. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
section, franchisee may open and disturb the surface of any street or public
place without permission where an emergency exists requiring immediate repair
of facilities. The franchisee in such event shall report such action not later
than the second working day thereafter and in such form as required by the
city.
      3.    No street opening may be made unless adequate traffic control
measures are provided.
   E.    Relocating: Whenever the city shall grade, regrade, improve or change
the line of any street or public place or construct or reconstruct any public
utility system therein or vacate any street or public place and shall, in the
proper exercise of its police power, and with due regard to seasonable working
conditions, when necessary, order the franchisee to relocate in said street or
public place, the franchisee shall relocate its facilities at its own expense.
The city shall give franchisee reasonable notice of plans to grade, regrade,
improve or change the line of any street or public place or to construct or
reconstruct any public utility system therein or vacate any street or public
way. Where the city orders the franchisee to relocate any of its facilities,
the franchisee shall proceed with such relocation.
   F.    Location Of Facilities: All facilities of franchisee shall be so
located, constructed, installed and maintained as not to endanger or
unnecessarily interfere with the usual and customary trade, traffic, travel
upon and use of the streets and public places of the city. Franchisee shall
keep and maintain all of its property in good condition, order and repair, so
that the same shall not menace or endanger the life or property of any person.
The company shall provide field locations for all its facilities when requested
within a reasonable period of time.
   G.    Indemnification: The franchisee shall indemnify and hold harmless the
city, its officers, employees and agents from all liability on account of
injury to persons or damage to property caused by the franchisee's
construction, maintenance, repair or operations in the city.
   H.    Franchise Fee: It is understood by franchisee that the city has
imposed a franchisee fee by ordinance applicable to all franchises granted by
the city. The fee may be changed by the city council from time to time,
pursuant to said ordinance.
   I.    Written Acceptance: The franchisee shall, if it accepts this section
and the rights and obligations hereby granted, file a written acceptance of the
rights hereby granted with the city administrator within sixty (60) days after
the passage of this ordinance.
   J.    Publication Expense: The expense of publication of this franchise
ordinance shall be paid by franchisee.
   K.    Assignment: Franchisee, upon written notice to the city, shall have
full right and authority to assign all rights conferred upon franchisee by this
section to any person, persons, firm or corporation. The assignee of such
rights, by accepting such assignment, shall become subject to the terms and
provisions of this section. (Ord. 212, 5-20-1996)
CHAPTER 7
GAS UTILITY FRANCHISE
SECTION:
3-7-1: Franchise Required
3-7-2: Term
3-7-3: Franchise Fee
3-7-4: Gas Utility Franchise Granted
3-7-1: FRANCHISE REQUIRED:
Except as otherwise provided by law, no person, firm or corporation shall
transmit, furnish, deliver or receive, or cause to be transmitted, furnished,
delivered or received gas energy for light, power, heat and other purposes for
public and/or private use within and through the limits of the city, or place
or maintain any permanent or semipermanent fixtures in, over, upon or under any
street or public place for the purpose of operating a public utility or
transmitting, furnishing, delivering or receiving, or causing to be
transmitted, furnished, delivered, or received gas energy or for any other
purpose, except pursuant to a franchise from the city. A franchise shall be
granted only by ordinance. Every ordinance granting a franchise shall contain
all the terms and conditions of the franchise. The grantee shall bear the costs
of publication of the franchise ordinance and shall make a sufficient deposit
with the city clerk to guarantee publication before the ordinance is passed.
(Ord. 210, 5-20-1996)
3-7-2: TERM:
No perpetual franchise or privilege shall ever be created, nor shall any
exclusive franchise or privilege be granted for a period of more than twenty
five (25) years. (Ord. 210, 5-20-1996)
3-7-3: FRANCHISE FEE:
   A.    As a part of any franchise ordinance adopted, the city may impose upon
the grantee a franchise fee. The franchise fee shall be expressed as a
specified charge per cubic foot of gas transmitted, furnished, delivered or
received, which fee shall be calculated by the city council and imposed upon
every cubic foot of gas transmitted, furnished, delivered or received within
the city. The franchise fee may be changed by ordinance from time to time;
however, no change shall be adopted until at least thirty (30) days after
written notice enclosing such proposed ordinance has been served upon the
grantee by certified mail. The franchise fee may not be changed more often than
once in each calendar year. (Ord. 210, 5-20-1996)
   B.    The franchise fee for the delivery of gas services shall be in an
amount shown in section
3-8-1 of this title. (Ord. 220, 9-8-1998; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
3-7-4: GAS UTILITY FRANCHISE GRANTED:
   A.    Definitions: In this section, the following terms shall mean:
CITY: The city of Hawley.
CITY ADMINISTRATOR: The city administrator of the city of Hawley.
CITY COUNCIL: The city council of the city of Hawley.
FRANCHISEE: Hawley public utilities commission.
NOTICE: A writing served by any party or parties on any party or parties. In
case of the franchisee, notice shall be mailed to P.O. Box 69, Hawley, MN
56549. In the case of the city, notice shall be mailed to the city
administrator at P.O. Box 69, Hawley, MN 56549.
STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES: The streets, avenues, alleys, parkways, roads,
squares, parks, bridges, viaducts, utility easements and public places in the
city. (Ord. 212, 5-20-1996)
   B.    Grant Of Franchise: The city hereby grants to the franchisee, for a
period extending to January 31, 2040, the right to transmit, furnish, deliver
or receive gas energy within the limits of the city as they now exist or as
they may be extended or revised in the future. For those purposes, franchisee
may establish the necessary facilities and equipment in and along the streets
and public places within the city. The franchisee may also do reasonable things
necessary or customary to accomplish those purposes, subject, however, to the
further provisions of this franchise. (Ord. 268, 10-20-2014, eff. 1-31-2015)
   C.    Nonexclusive Franchise: This is not an exclusive franchise.
   D.    Construction Of Facilities:
      1.    The franchisee will give reasonable written notice to the city
administrator of its plan to construct facilities in any part of the city.
Construction of facilities shall be in accord with established city codes and
ordinances.
      2.    Franchisee shall not open or disturb any street or public place for
any purpose without first having obtained permission to do so from the city
administrator. The location of facilities in, under, upon or over any street or
public place shall be approved by the city administrator. Franchisee shall,
upon completion of any work requiring the opening of any street or public
place, or during construction if ordered by the city administrator, restore the
same, including paving and foundations, to as good a condition as formerly and
shall maintain the same for two (2) years thereafter in good condition. Said
work shall be performed with due diligence and if the franchisee shall fail
promptly to perform and complete the work, to remove all dirt and rubbish and
to put the street or public place or the area adjacent to the street or public
place in good condition, the city shall have the right to put the street or
public place in good condition at the expense of the franchisee; and the
franchisee shall, upon demand, pay to the city the cost of such work done for
or performed by the city. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this
section, franchisee may open and disturb the surface of any street or public
place without permission where an emergency exists requiring immediate repair
of facilities. The franchisee in such event shall report such action not later
than the second working day thereafter and in such form as required by the
city.
      3.    No street opening may be made unless adequate traffic control
measures are provided.
   E.    Relocating: Whenever the city shall grade, regrade, improve or change
the line of any street or public place or construct or reconstruct any public
utility system therein or vacate any street or public place and shall, in the
proper exercise of its police power, and with due regard to seasonable working
conditions, when necessary, order the franchisee to relocate in said street or
public place, the franchisee shall relocate its facilities at its own expense.
The city shall give franchisee reasonable notice of plans to grade, regrade,
improve or change the line of any street or public place or to construct or
reconstruct any public utility system therein or vacate any street or public
way. Where the city orders the franchisee to relocate any of its facilities,
the franchisee shall proceed with such relocation.
   F.    Location Of Facilities: All facilities of franchisee shall be so
located, constructed, installed and maintained as not to endanger or
unnecessarily interfere with the usual and customary trade, traffic, travel
upon and use of the streets and public places of the city. Franchisee shall
keep and maintain all of its property in good condition, order and repair, so
that the same shall not menace or endanger the life or property of any person.
The company shall provide field locations for all its facilities when requested
within a reasonable period of time.
   G.    Indemnification: The franchisee shall indemnify and hold harmless the
city, its officers, employees and agents from all liability on account of
injury to persons or damage to property caused by the franchisee's
construction, maintenance, repair or operations in the city.
   H.    Franchise Fee: It is understood by franchisee that the city has
imposed a franchise fee by ordinance applicable to all franchises granted by
the city. The fee may be changed by the city council from time to time,
pursuant to said ordinance.
   I.    Written Acceptance: The franchisee shall, if it accepts this section
and the rights and obligations hereby granted, file written acceptance of the
rights hereby granted with the city administrator within sixty (60) days after
the passage of this ordinance.
   J.    Publication Expense: The expense of publication of this franchise
ordinance shall be paid by franchisee.
   K.    Assignment: Franchisee, upon written notice to the city, shall have
full right and authority to assign all rights conferred upon franchisee by this
section to any person, persons, firm or corporation. The assignee of such
rights, by accepting such assignment, shall become subject to the terms and
provisions of this section. (Ord. 212, 5-20-1996)
CHAPTER 8
FEE SCHEDULE
SECTION:
3-8-1: Adopted
3-8-1: ADOPTED:
MASTER FEE SCHEDULE
Combined on-sale wine and strong beer license        $900.00
Consumption and display                              150.00
On-sale liquor license                               2,000.00
Sunday liquor license                                200.00
Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor license        50.00
Temporary on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license           25.00
3.2 malt off-sale (limited to after 10:00 P.M. and   30.00
hours municipal liquor store is not open)
3.2 malt off-sale (Sundays)                          30.00
3.2 malt on-sale                                     120.00
Copies per page                                      0.15
Fax (10 pages or less)                               5.00
Notary signature                                     1.00
Annual kennel license fee                            300.00
Boarding fee for impounded pet                       Actual cost
Disposal fee                                         Actual cost
Duplicate tag                                        2.00
Pet disposal fee (higher of)                         $50.00 or actual cost
Pet license per year                                 6.00
Conditional use permit                               150.00
Filing an appeal                                     100.00
Floodplain elevation certificate                     Actual cost
Moving building permit                               $ 150.00
New accessory building or use                        50.00
Sign permit                                          25.00
Variance permit                                      200.00
Zoning or rezoning amendment                         250.00
Zoning permit:
 Addition, commercial/industrial                    100.00
 Addition, residential                              75.00
 New construction, commercial                       750.00
 New construction, industrial                       1,000.00
 New construction, residential                      500.00
Sewer connection or tapping fee                      500.00
Stormwater utility fee; basic system rate            6.00
Subdivision:
 Administrative                                     75.00
 Final plat                                         500.00
 Minor                                              150.00
 Minor (extraterritorial area)                      200.00
 Preliminary plat                                   500.00
 Sketch plan                                        250.00
Nuisance:
 Cleanup; disposal fees                             Actual cost
 Cleanup; hourly rate per worker (1 hour            $100.00
  increments)
 Mowing; hourly rate (1 hour increment/includes     150.00
  operator)
 Towing fees                                        Actual cost
 Weed spraying; hourly rate (1 hour increment/      150.00
  includes operator)
Cable television franchise fee; percent of gross     3%
revenue
Franchise fee electric; per kWh sold1                $0.0075
Franchise fee gas; per 100 cubic feet sold           0.00077
Pavement cuts (deposit of $100.00 each required)     Actual cost
Right-of-way excavation permit:
 Up to 1,500 linear feet                            $250.00
 Each additional 300 linear feet                    25.00
Right-of-way obstruction permit (each)               50.00
Right-of-way permit registration (each project)      50.00
Community center rental rates (see schedule A of
this section)
Garbage collection rates (see schedule B of this
section)
Equipment fees with operator (1 hour minimum; see
schedule C of this section)
Vehicle storage fee (impounded)                      10.00 per day
Fingerprint fee (resident)                           0.00
Fingerprint fee (non-resident)                       25.00
Breath test (for probation)                          25.00
Rodeo grounds rental by individual rider(s) - must
sign waiver of liability and indemnity agreement,    $5.00 per horse per rental
provide comprehensive general liability insurance    $100.00 for the season
naming the City of Hawley an additional insured, and
fees of:
Excessive vehicle noise                              $250.00
Temporary Cannabis Event                             $500.00
Tobacco Product License                              $200.00
 
Note:
   1.    Indicates a change.
(Ord. 246, 12-3-2007; amd. Ord. 251, 7-20-2009; Ord. 254, 12-7-2009; Ord. 257,
3-26-2012; Ord. 260, 7-1-2013; Ord. 262, 7-1-2013; Ord. 263, 10-7-2013; Ord.
265, 4-21-2014; Ord. 272, 6-6-2016; Ord. 275, 10-3-2016; Ord. 279, 12-18-2017;
Ord. 288, 2-22-2022; Ord. 290, 12-19-2022; Ord. 298, 5-19-2025; Ord. 299, 6-2-
2025)
SCHEDULE A
FEE SCHEDULE HAWLEY COMMUNITY CENTER
Nonprofit/civic group rental:  
Nonprofit/civic group rental:              
 Gymnasium                               $15.00 under 4 hours; $50.00 over 4
                                          hours
 Kitchen cooking or serving              $10.00 per rental
 Meeting rooms:
  Basement                              $2.00 per rental
  1st floor                             $4.00 per rental
  2nd floor                             $4.00 per rental
 Unique nonprofit events:                 
    Gym used for 1 event over several     $100.00 for first 3 days, plus $15.00
  consecutive days                      per day each additional day plus
                                          $5.00 per day kitchen
  Gym used for prescheduled weekly      $20.00 each time (no additional
    events with 2 or more meeting rooms   kitchen charge)
    Entire building used for 1 event over $110.00 for first 3 days, plus $20.00
  several consecutive days              per day each additional day plus
                                          $5.00 per day kitchen
Wedding parties, reunions, private         
parties, auctions, rummage sales, etc.:
 Gymnasium                               $25.00 per hour; $150.00 per day
                                          maximum
 Kitchen cooking or serving              $30.00 per rental
 Meeting rooms:                           
  Basement                              $10.00 per rental
  1st floor                             $10.00 per rental
  2nd floor                             $20.00 per rental
Private children's birthday party with     
less than 20 people; 3 hour time limit:
 Gymnasium                               $35.00 for 3 hours
 Kitchen cooking or serving              $30.00 per rental
Private industry, commercial               
organizations operating for profit:
 Gymnasium                               $30.00 per hour; $200.00 per day
                                          maximum
 Kitchen cooking or serving              $30.00 per rental
 Meeting rooms:                           
  Basement                              $20.00 per rental
  1st floor                             $20.00 per rental
  2nd floor                             $25.00 per rental
Recreational (i.e., volleyball/            
basketball/JFK/TKD):
 Gymnasium                               $10.00 per hour (2 hour minimum)
 Charges always billed in 1 hour          
  increments
Rental for off site use of (civic groups
and businesses within Hawley City          
limits):
 Coffeepot                               $2.00 each
 Roaster                                 $5.00 each
                                          $20.00 for 10 tables/80 chairs per
 Tables with chairs (inside use only)    day; $40.00 for 20 tables/160 chairs
                                          per day
  Chairs only (up to 100)               $25.00 per day
Rental for off site use of (businesses
outside of the Hawley City limits and      
within 5 mile radius):
                                          $40.00 for 10 tables/80 chairs per
 Tables with chairs (inside use only)    day; $80.00 for 20 tables/160 chairs
                                          per day
  Chairs only (up to 100)               $50.00 per day
 
(Ord. 246, 12-3-2007, eff. 1-1-2008; amd. Ord. 272, 6-6-2016, eff. 6-6-2016)
SCHEDULE B
GARBAGE COLLECTION CHARGES
Setting garbage rates effective February 1, 2022:
Rate Number Garbage Charge
Rate Number        Garbage Charge
                   
Residential        $21.50
Sr. Citizen        $18.25
29                 $42.00
30                 $43.00
31                 $30.00
32                 $55.00
33                 $49.00
36                 $88.00
37                 $60.00
39                 $155.00
40                 $159.00
42                 $208.00
43                 $370.00
44                 $285.00
45                 $578.00
46                 $445.00
47                 $724.00
48                 $1,723.00
50                 $570.00
51                 $313.00
52                 $854.00
53                 $525.00
54                 $400.00
Curbside Recycling $8.00
 
(Ord. 276, 1-9-2017; amd. Ord. 280, 5-4-2020; Ord. 287, 11-15-2021; Ord. 300,
6-2-2025)
   SCHEDULE C
   HAWLEY PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
   EQUIPMENT AND LABOR FEES (MUTUAL AID)
Effective March 15, 2022:
Equipment Hourly Rate
          (With Operator)
Equipment              Hourly Rate
                       (With Operator)
Bucket truck           $250.00
Case backhoe           250.00
Digger derrick         250.00
JD tractor             200.00
Dump truck             200.00
Single axle dump truck 200.00
Skid steer             200.00
Tandem dump            200.00
Trencher               200.00
 
All of the above rates include labor and fuel per hour.
Only City operators permitted to use City equipment.
 
Labor                                   Hourly Rate
Labor                                   $100.00
Mileage to work site                    Hourly labor charge and per mile rate
                                        as adopted by City annually
The City of Hawley does not intend to
compete with any private business. City
equipment is not normally available for  
hire - but may assist during unusual
circumstances. All work performed for
private will be charged 1 hour minimum
City equipment and operators are only
available to work within Hawley City     
limits or within another mutual aid
jurisdiction
 
Sanding and salting:
Service Rate
Service                                                    Rate
Apply/spread sand/salt utilizing City equipment within the
Hawley City limits:
 Cost for each private parking lot:
  0.5 acre or less                                        $150.00/time
  0.51 acre to 1.5 acres                                  $250.00/time
  Over 1.5 acres                                          $350.00/time
 Apply to private street:
  Each 300 feet                                           $150.00/300 feet
 
(Ord. 279, 12-18-2017; amd. Ord. 288, 2-22-2022)
CHAPTER 9
CANNABIS BUSINESS REGISTRATION
SECTION:
3-9-1: Administration
3-9-2: Definitions
3-9-3: Registration Of Cannabis Businesses
3-9-4: Requirements For Cannabis Businesses
3-9-5: Temporary Cannabis Events
3-9-6: Lower-Potency Hemp Edibles
3-9-7: City Of Hawley Government As A Cannabis Retailer
3-9-8: Use In Public Places
3-9-1: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.   Findings And Purpose: The City of Hawley makes the following
legislative findings:
      The purpose of this chapter is to implement the provisions of Minnesota
Statutes, chapter 342, which authorizes the City of Hawley to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare of the City of Hawley residents by
regulating cannabis businesses within the legal boundaries of the City of
Hawley.
      The City of Hawley finds and concludes that the proposed provisions are
appropriate and lawful land use regulations for the City of Hawley, that the
proposed amendments will promote the community's interest in reasonable
stability in zoning for now and in the future, and that the proposed provisions
are in the public interest and for the public good.
   B.   Authority And Jurisdiction: The City of Hawley has the authority to
adopt this chapter pursuant to:
      1.   Minn. Stat. 342.13(c), regarding the authority of a local unit of
government to adopt reasonable restrictions upon the time, place, and manner of
the operation of a cannabis business, provided that such restrictions do not
prohibit the establishment or operation of cannabis businesses.
      2.   Minn. Stat. 342.22, regarding the local registration and enforcement
requirements of state-licensed cannabis retail businesses and lower potency
hemp edible retail businesses.
      3.   Minn. Stat. 152.0263, Subd. 5, regarding the use of cannabis in
public places.
      4.   Minn. Stat. 462.357, regarding the authority of a local jurisdiction
to adopt zoning ordinances.
      This chapter shall be applicable within the legal boundaries of the City
of Hawley
   C.   Severability: If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   D.   Enforcement: The City Administrator for the City of Hawley is
responsible for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. Any
violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with any of
its requirements constitutes a misdemeanor and is punishable as defined by law.
Violations of this chapter can occur regardless of whether or not a permit is
required for a regulated activity listed in this chapter. (Ord. 298, 5-19-2025)
3-9-2: DEFINITIONS:
Unless otherwise noted in this section, words and phrases contained in Minn.
Stat. 342.01 and the rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts, shall
have the same meanings in this chapter.
CANNABIS CULTIVATION: A cannabis business licensed to grow cannabis plants
within the approved amount of space from seed or immature plant to mature
plant, harvest cannabis flower from mature plant, package and label immature
plants and seedlings and cannabis flower for sale to other cannabis businesses,
transport cannabis flower to a cannabis manufacturer located on the same
premises, and perform other actions approved by the office.
CANNABIS RETAIL BUSINESSES: A retail location and the retail location(s) of a
mezzobusinesses with a retail operations endorsement, microbusinesses with a
retail operations endorsement, medical combination businesses operating a
retail location, and lower-potency hemp edible retailers.
CANNABIS RETAILER: Any person, partnership, firm, corporation, or association,
foreign or domestic, selling cannabis product to a consumer and not for the
purpose of resale in any form.
DAYCARE: A location licensed with the Minnesota Department of Human Services to
provide the care of a child in a residence outside the child's own home for
gain or otherwise, on a regular basis, for any part of a twenty four (24) hour
day.
LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE: As defined in Minn. Stat. 342.0.
OFFICE OF CANNABIS MANAGEMENT: Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management,
referred to as "OCM" or the "Office" in this chapter.
PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION: A business, accommodation, refreshment,
entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whether
licensed or not, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or
accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
public.
PRELIMINARY LICENSE APPROVAL: OCM pre-approval for a cannabis business license
for applicants who qualify under Minn. Stat. 342.17.
PUBLIC PLACE: A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk; any enclosed,
indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited to,
restaurants; bars; any other food or liquor establishment; hospitals; nursing
homes; auditoriums; arenas; gyms; meeting rooms; common areas of rental
apartment buildings, and other places of public accommodation.
RESIDENTIAL TREATMENT FACILITY: As defined in Minn. Stat. 245.462.
RETAIL REGISTRATION: An approved registration issued by the City of Hawley to a
state-licensed cannabis retail business.
SCHOOL: A public school as defined under Minn. Stat. 120A.05 or a nonpublic
school that must meet the reporting requirements under Minn. Stat. 120A.24.
STATE LICENSE: An approved license issued by the State of Minnesota's Office of
Cannabis Management to a cannabis retail business. (Ord. 298, 5-19-2025)
3-9-3: REGISTRATION OF CANNABIS BUSINESSES:
   A.   Consent To Registering Of Cannabis Businesses: No individual or entity
may operate a state-licensed cannabis retail business within The City of Hawley
without first registering with the City of Hawley.
      Any state-licensed cannabis retail business that sells to a customer,
consumer or patient without valid retail registration shall incur a civil
penalty not to exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) for each violation.
   B.   Compliance Checks Prior To Retail Registration: Prior to issuance of a
cannabis retail business registration, the City of Hawley shall conduct a
preliminary compliance check to ensure compliance with local ordinances.
      Pursuant to Minn. Stat. 342, within thirty (30) days of receiving a copy
of a state license application from OCM, the City of Hawley shall certify on a
form provided by OCM whether a proposed cannabis retail business complies with
local zoning ordinances and, if applicable, whether the proposed business
complies with the state fire code and building code.
   C.   Registration And Application Procedure:
      1.   Fees:
         A registration fee shall be charged to applicants depending on the
type of retail business license applied for.
         An initial retail registration fee shall not exceed five hundred
dollars ($500.00) or half the amount of an initial state license fee under
Minn. Stat. 342.11, whichever is less. The initial registration fee shall
include the initial retail registration fee and the first annual renewal fee.
         Any renewal retail registration fee imposed by the City of Hawley
shall be charged at the time of the second renewal and each subsequent renewal
thereafter.
         A renewal retail registration fee shall not exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or half the amount of a renewal state license fee under
Minn. Stat. 342.11, whichever is less.
         A medical combination business operating an adult-use retail location
may only be charged a single registration fee, not to exceed the lesser of a
single retail registration fee, defined under this section, of the adult-use
retail business.
      2.   Registration Submittal: The City of Hawley shall issue a retail
registration to a state-licensed cannabis retail business that adheres to the
requirements of Minn. Stat. 342.22.
         a.   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out the
Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management Retail Registration Form and Checklist,
as provided by the City of Hawley. Said form shall include, but is not limited
to:
            (1)   Full name of applicant;
            (2)   The address for the property which the retail registration is
sought;
            (3)   Verification that property taxes are paid in full;
            (4)   Certification that the applicant complies with the
requirements of local ordinances established pursuant to Minn. Stat. 342.13.
         b.   The applicant shall include with the form:
            (1)   The registration fee as required;
            (2)   A copy of a valid state license or written notice of OCM
license preapproval;
            (3)   A map showing that the retail store is one thousand feet
(1,000') or more from any school; five hundred feet (500') or more from any
daycare; five hundred feet (500') or more from any public park, playground,
athletic field; five hundred feet (500') or more from any residential treatment
facility and five hundred feet (500') or more from any other cannabis retail
business (see subsection
3-9-4A).
         c.   Once an application is considered complete, the City
Administrator shall inform the applicant as such, process the application, and
forward the application to the City Council for approval or denial.
         d.   The registration fee shall be non-refundable.
      3.   Application Approval:
         a.   A state-licensed cannabis retail business registration shall not
be approved if the cannabis retail business would exceed the maximum number of
registered cannabis retail businesses permitted under subsection
3-9-3F.
         b.   A state-licensed cannabis retail business registration shall not
be approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of
this chapter.
         c.   A state-licensed cannabis retail business registration that meets
the requirements of this chapter shall be approved.
      4.   Annual Compliance Checks: Any failures under this section must be
reported to the Office of Cannabis Management.
         a.   A local unit of government shall conduct compliance checks of
every cannabis business and hemp business with a retail registration issued by
the local unit of government. The checks shall assess compliance with age
verification requirements and with any applicable local ordinance.
         b.   The local unit of government must conduct unannounced age
verification compliance checks at least once each calendar year. Age
verification compliance checks must involve persons at least seventeen (17)
years of age but under the age of twenty one (21) who, with the prior written
consent of a parent or guardian if the person is under the age of eighteen
(18), attempt to purchase adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis
products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products under
the direct supervision of a law enforcement officer or an employee of the local
unit of government.
      5.   Location Change: A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall be
required to submit a new application for registration under subsection C2 if it
seeks to move to a new location that is within the legal boundaries of the City
of Hawley.
   D.   Renewal Of Registration: The City of Hawley shall renew an annual
registration of a state-licensed cannabis retail business at the same time OCM
renews the cannabis retail business' license.
      A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall apply to renew
registration on Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management Retail Registration
Form and Checklist.
      A cannabis retail registration issued under this chapter shall not be
transferred.
      1.   Renewal Fees: The City of Hawley may charge a renewal fee for the
registration starting at the second renewal, shall not exceed one thousand
dollars ($1,000.00) or half the amount of a renewal state license fee under
Minn. Stat. 342.11, whichever is less.
      2.   Renewal Application: The application for renewal of a retail
registration shall include, but is not limited to the Items required under
subsection C2.
   E.   Suspension Of Registration:
      1.   When Suspension Is Warranted: The City of Hawley may suspend a
cannabis retail business's registration if it violates the ordinance of the
City of Hawley or poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of the
public. The City of Hawley shall immediately notify the cannabis retail
business in writing the grounds for the suspension.
      2.   Notification To OCM: The City of Hawley shall immediately notify the
OCM in writing the grounds for the suspension. OCM will provide City of Hawley
and cannabis business retailer a response to the complaint within seven (7)
calendar days and perform any necessary inspections within thirty (30) calendar
days.
      3.   Length Of Suspension: The suspension of a cannabis retail business
registration may be for up to thirty (30) calendar days, unless OCM suspends
the license for a longer period. The business may not make sales to customers
if their registration is suspended.
      The City of Hawley may reinstate a registration if it determines that the
violations have been resolved.
      The City of Hawley shall reinstate a registration if OCM determines that
the violation(s) have been resolved.
      4.   Civil Penalties: Subject to Minn. Stat. 342.22, subd. 5(e) the City
of Hawley may impose a civil penalty, as specified in the City of Hawley. For a
first violation, a civil penalty of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) shall
be imposed. For a second violation, a civil penalty of five hundred dollars
($500.00) shall be imposed. For a third violation, a civil penalty of seven
hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) shall be imposed. Payment of civil penalties
may be enforced by Civil Action.
   F.   Limiting Of Registrations: The City of Hawley may limit the number of
cannabis retail businesses within City of Hawley by zoning and land
use.restrictions and minimum buffer requirements. (Ord. 298, 5-19-2025)
3-9-4: REQUIREMENTS FOR CANNABIS BUSINESSES:
   A.   Minimum Buffer Requirements:
      The City of Hawley shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis business
within one thousand feet (1,000') of a school.
      The City of Hawley shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis business
within five hundred feet (500') of a day care.
      The City of Hawley shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis business
within five hundred feet (500') of a residential treatment facility.
      The City of Hawley shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis business
within five hundred feet (500') of an attraction within a public park that is
regularly used by minors, including a playground or athletic field.
      The City of Hawley shall prohibit the operation of a cannabis retail
business within five hundred feet (500') of cannabis retail business.
      Nothing in subsection A shall prohibit an active cannabis business or a
cannabis business seeking renewal of its registration from continuing operation
at the same site if a (school/daycare/residential treatment facility/
attraction within a public park that is regularly used by minors) moves within
the minimum buffer zone after the business is established.
      Lower potency hemp edible retailers are exempt from these buffer
requirements.
   B.   Zoning And Land Use:
      1.   Cultivation: Indoor cultivation of cannabis by cannabis businesses
licensed or endorsed for cultivation is a conditional use, by a conditional use
permit, and only in the following zoning districts:
         a.   "I-1" Light Industrial District (Indoor).
         b.   "C-3" Agricultural Commercial (Indoor).
      Outdoor cultivation of cannabis by cannabis businesses licensed or
endorsed for cultivation is a conditional use, by a conditional use permit, and
only in the following zoning district:
         a.   "I-1" Light Industrial District (Outdoor).
      2.   Cannabis Manufacturer: Manufacture of cannabis products by cannabis
businesses licensed or endorsed for cannabis manufacturer is a conditional use,
by a conditional use permit, and only in the following zoning districts:
         a.   "I-1" Light Industrial District.
         b.   "C-3" Agriculture Commercial.
         c.   "C-2" Highway Commercial.
      3.   Hemp Manufacturer: Manufacture of low-potency hemp edible products
by businesses licensed or endorsed for low-potency hemp edible manufacturer is
a permitted use only in the following zoning district:
         a.   "I-1" Light Industrial District.
         b.   "C-3" Agriculture Commercial.
         c.   "C-2" Highway Commercial.
      4.   Wholesale: Wholesale of products authorized by Minn. Stat. Section
342.34 by cannabis businesses licensed or endorsed for wholesale is a
conditional use, by a conditional use permit, and only in the following zoning
districts:
         a.   "I-1" Light Industrial District.
         b.   "C-3" Agriculture Commercial.
         c.   "C-2" Highway Commercial.
      5.   Cannabis Retail: Retail sale of cannabis flower or cannabis products
and other products authorized by Minn. Stat. Section 342.27 by cannabis
businesses licensed or endorsed for cannabis retail is a conditional use, by a
conditional use permit, and only in the following zoning districts:
         a.   "I-1" Light Industrial District.
         b.   "C-3" Agriculture Commercial.
         c.   "C-2" Highway Commercial.
         d.   "C-1" Central Commercial.
   C.   Hours Of Operation: Cannabis businesses are limited to retail sale of
cannabis, cannabis flower, and cannabis products between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
   D.   Advertising: Cannabis businesses are permitted to erect signs on the
exterior of the building or on the property of the business in accordance with
the City's sign regulations in Chapter
10-5-4 of the Hawley City Code. (Ord. 298, 5-19-2025)
3-9-5: TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENTS:
   A.   License Or Permit Required For Temporary Cannabis Events.
      A cannabis event organizer license entitles the license holder to
organize a temporary cannabis event lasting no more than four (4)days.
      A license or permit is required to be issued and approved by the City of
Hawley prior to holding a Temporary Cannabis Event.
   B.   Registration And Application Procedure:
      1.   Fees: A registration fee, as established in the City of Hawley fee
schedule, shall be charged to applicants for Temporary Cannabis Events.
      2.   Application Submittal And Review:
      The City of Hawley shall require an application for Temporary Cannabis
Events.
         a.   An applicant for a temporary cannabis event shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the City of Hawley. Said form shall include,
but is not limited to:
            (1)   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            (2)   Address, email address, and telephone number of the
applicant;
            (3)   Address of the event location;
            (4)   Description of the event including dates and hours.
         b.   The applicant shall include with the form:
            (1)   The application fee as required by subsection B1;
            (2)   A copy of the OCM cannabis event license application,
submitted pursuant to 342.39 subd. 2.
         c.   The application shall be submitted to the City Administrator, or
other designee for review. If the designee determines that a submitted
application is incomplete, they shall return the application to the applicant
with the notice of deficiencies.
         d.   Once an application is considered complete, the City
Administrator shall inform the applicant as such, process the application fees,
and forward the application to the City Council for approval or denial.
         e.   The application fee is non-refundable.
      3.   Application Approval:
      The application for a license for a Temporary Cannabis Event shall meet
the following standards:
         a.   No on-site consumption of cannabis products is allowed;
         b.   No more than twenty five (25) people can attend the temporary
cannabis event at the same time;
         c.   A temporary cannabis event shall only be held indoors at a
licensed cannabis retail business;
         d.   A temporary cannabis event cannot last more than four (4) days;
         e.   A temporary cannabis event can only be held between the hours of
ten o'clock (10:00) A.M. and nine o'clock (9:00) P.M.
      4.   A request for a Temporary Cannabis Event that meets the requirements
of this section shall be approved.
      5.   A request for a Temporary Cannabis Event that does not meet the
requirements of this section shall be denied. The City of Hawley shall notify
the applicant of the standards not met and basis for denial. (Ord. 298, 5-19-
2025)
3-9-6: LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES:
   A.   Sale Of Low-Potency Hemp Edibles: The sale of low-potency hemp edibles
is permitted by registered lower potency hemp edible retailers.
   B.   Zoning Districts: Low-potency edibles business is a conditional use, by
a conditional use permit, and only in the following zoning districts:
      1.   "I-1" Light Industrial District.
      2.   "C-3" Agriculture Commercial.
      3.   "C-2" Highway Commercial.
      4.   "C-1" Central Commercial.
   C.   Sales Within A Municipal Liquor Store: The sale of low-potency edibles
is permitted in a Municipal Liquor Store. (Ord. 298, 5-19-2025)
3-9-7: CITY OF HAWLEY GOVERNMENT AS A CANNABIS RETAILER:
The City of Hawley may establish, own, and operate one municipal cannabis
retail business, subject to the restrictions in this chapter.
The municipal cannabis retail store shall not be included in any limitation of
the number of registered cannabis retail businesses under subsection
3-9-3F.
The City of Hawley shall be subject to all same retail license requirements and
procedures applicable to all other applicants. (Ord. 298, 5-19-2025)
3-9-8: USE IN PUBLIC PLACES:
As detailed in 3-9-2 of the Hawley City code, no person shall use cannabis
flower, cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products in a public places as defined therein, unless the premises is an
establishment or an event licensed to permit on-site consumption of adult-use
cannabis products. (Ord. 298, 5-19-2025)
CHAPTER 10
TOBACCO
SECTION:
3-10-1: Definitions
3-10-2: License
3-10-3: Fees
3-10-4: Basis Of Denial Of License
3-10-5: Prohibition
3-10-6: Prohibited Sales
3-10-7: Vending Machines
3-10-8: Self Service Sales
3-10-9: Liquid Packaging
3-10-10: Responsibility
3-10-11: Compliance Checks And Inspections
3-10-12: Violations
3-10-13: Penalties
3-10-14: Exceptions And Defenses
3-10-1: DEFINITIONS:
Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
CHILD-RESISTANT PACKAGING: Packaging that meets the definition set forth in
Code of Federal Regulations, Title 16, Section 1700.15(6), as in effect on
January 1, 2015, and was tested in accordance with the method described in Code
of Federal Regulations, Title 16, Section 1700.20.
COMPLIANCE CHECKS: The system the City uses to investigate and ensure that
those authorized to sell licensed products are following and complying with the
requirements of this Section. Compliance checks shall involve the use of minors
as authorized by this Section. Compliance checks shall also mean the use of
minors who attempt to purchase licensed products for educational, research and
training purposes as authorized by State and Federal laws. Compliance checks
may also be conducted by other units of government for the purpose of enforcing
appropriate Federal, State, or local laws and regulations relating to licensed
products.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICES: Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance intended for human consumption that can be used
by a person to simulate smoking in the delivery of nicotine or any other
substance through inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product. Electronic
delivery devices include any component part of a product, whether or not
marketed or sold separately. Electronic delivery devices do not include any
product that has been approved or certified by the United States Food and Drug
Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product, as a tobacco-dependence
product, or for other medical purposes, and is marketed and sold for such an
approved purpose. The term includes any such devices, whether they are
manufactured, distributed, marketed or sold as e-cigarettes, e-cigars, e-pipes,
or under any other product name or descriptor.
INDIVIDUALLY PACKAGED: The practice of selling any licensed product wrapped
individually for sale. Individually packaged products shall include, but are
not limited to, single cigarette packs, single bags or cans of loose tobacco in
any form, and single cans or other packaging of snuff or chewing tobacco.
Cartons or other packaging containing more than a single pack or other
containers as described in this Subdivision shall not be considered
individually packaged.
INDOOR AREA: All space between a floor and a ceiling that is bounded by walls,
doorways, or windows, whether open or closed, covering more than fifty percent
(50%) of the combined surface area of the vertical planes constituting the
perimeter of the area. A wall includes any retractable divider, garage door, or
other physical barrier, whether temporary or permanent. A standard (0.011 gauge
with an 18 by 16 mesh count) window screen is not considered a wall.
LICENSED PRODUCTS: The term that collectively refers to tobacco, tobacco-
related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery
products.
LOOSIES: The common term used to refer to a single or individually packaged
cigar or cigarette or any other licensed product that has been removed from its
intended retail packaging and sold individually. Loosies does not include
individual cigars with a retail price, after any discounts or before any sales
taxes are imposed, of more than $2.00 per cigar.
MINOR: Any natural person who has not yet reached the age of twenty-one (21)
years.
MOVABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS: Any form of business operated out of a kiosk, truck,
van, automobile, or other type of vehicle or transportable shelter and not a
fixed address store front or other permanent type of structure authorized for
sales transactions.
NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCTS: Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of such
product, that is not tobacco or an electronic delivery device as defined in
this section. Nicotine or lobelia delivery products do not include any product
that has been approved or otherwise certified for legal sale by the United
States Food and Drug Administration for tobacco use cessation, harm reduction,
or for other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for that
approved purpose.
RETAIL ESTABLISHMENT: Any place of business where licensed products are
available for sale to the general public. The phrase shall include, but not be
limited to, grocery stores, convenience stores, gasoline service stations,
bars, and restaurants.
SALE: Any transfer of goods for money, trade, barter, or other consideration.
SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING: Open displays of licensed products in any manner
where any person shall have access to the licensed products without the
assistance or intervention of the licensee or the licensee's employee. The
assistance or intervention shall entail the actual physical exchange of the
licensed product between the customer and the licensee or employee. Self-
service sales are interpreted as being any sale where there is not an actual
physical exchange between the clerk and the customer.
SMOKING: Inhaling or exhaling smoke from any lighted or heated cigar,
cigarette, pipe, or any other tobacco or plant product, or inhaling or exhaling
aerosol or vapor from an electronic delivery device. Smoking includes being in
possession of a lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other tobacco
or plant product intended for inhalation, or any electronic delivery device
that is turned on or otherwise activated.
TOBACCO: Any product containing, made or derived from tobacco that is intended
for human consumption, whether chewed, smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled,
snorted, sniffed, or ingested by any other means, or any component, part, or
accessory of a tobacco product, including but not limited to, cigarettes;
cigars; cheroots; stogies; perique; granulated, plug cut, crimp cut, ready-
rubbed, and other smoking tobacco; snuff flower; cavendish; plug and twist
tobacco; fine cut and other chewing tobaccos, shorts, refuse scraps, clippings,
cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; and other kinds and forms of tobacco.
Tobacco does not include any product that has been approved by the United
States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco-cessation product, as
a tobacco-dependence product, or for other medical purposes, and is being
marketed and sold solely for such an approved purpose.
TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES: Any pipe, rolling papers or other device intentionally
designed or intended to be used in a manner which enables the chewing,
sniffing, smoking or inhalation of vapors of tobacco or tobacco products.
Tobacco-related devices include components of tobacco-related devices which may
be marketed or sold separately.
USE: The inhaling or exhaling of aerosol or vapor from any electronic delivery
device. Use shall also mean being in possession of an electronic delivery
device that is turned on or otherwise activated.
VENDING MACHINE: Any mechanical, electric or electronic, or other type of
device which dispenses licensed products upon the insertion of money, tokens,
or other form of payment directly into the machine by the person seeking to
purchase the licensed product. (Ord. 299, 6-2-2025)
3-10-2: LICENSE:
No person shall sell or offer to sell any tobacco, tobacco related device,
electronic delivery device, or nicotine or lobelia delivery product without
first having obtained a license to do so from the City. (Ord. 299, 6-2-2025)
3-10-3: FEES:
No license shall be issued under this Section until the appropriate license fee
shall be paid in full. See section
3-8-1, Fee Schedule. (Ord. 299, 6-2-2025)
3-10-4: BASIS OF DENIAL OF LICENSE:
The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or renewal of a license
under this Section; however, except as may otherwise be provided by law, the
existence of any particular ground for denial does not mean that the City must
deny the license. If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to a person, it
shall be revoked upon the discovery that the person was ineligible for the
license under this Section.
   A.   The applicant is under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   The applicant has been convicted within the past five (5) years of any
violation of a Federal, State or local law or City Code provision, or other
regulation relating to tobacco or tobacco related device, electronic delivery
device, or nicotine or lobelia delivery product.
   C.   The applicant has had a license to sell tobacco, tobacco related
device, electronic delivery device, or nicotine or lobelia delivery product
revoked within the preceding twelve (12) months of the date of application.
   D.   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the
application, or provides false or misleading information.
   E.   The applicant is prohibited by Federal, State, or local law, City Code
provision or other regulation from holding such a license.
   F.   No license shall be issued to a moveable place of business. Only fixed
location businesses shall be eligible to be licensed.
   G.   All licenses issued shall be valid only on the premises for which the
license was issued and only for the person to whom the license was issued. No
transfer of any license to another location or person shall be valid.
   H.   The renewal of a license issued under this section shall be handled in
the same manner as the original application. The request for a renewal shall be
made at least thirty (30) days but no more than sixty (60) days before the
expiration of the current license.
   I.   Issuance of a license issued under this section shall be considered a
privilege and not an absolute right of the applicant and shall not entitle the
holder to an automatic renewal of the license.
   J.   No license shall be granted to any person for any location that is
within one thousand feet (1,000') of a school or playground, as measured by the
shortest line between the space to be occupied by the proposed licensee and the
occupied space of the school, playground, or youth-oriented facility, unless
that person has been licensed to sell such licensed products in that location
for at least one year before the date this section was enacted into law. For
the purpose of this section, a youth-oriented facility is defined to include
any facility with residents, customers, visitors, or inhabitants of which
twenty five percent (25%) or more are regularly under the age of twenty one
(21) or which primarily sells, rents, or offers services or products that are
consumed or used primarily by persons under the age of twenty one (21). (Ord.
299, 6-2-2025)
3-10-5: PROHIBITION:
Smoking, including the use of any electronic delivery device, shall not be
permitted and no person shall smoke within the indoor area of any establishment
licensed under this chapter or where prohibited by the Minnesota Clean Indoor
Air Act, as it may be amended from time to time. Smoking for the purposes of
sampling licensed products is prohibited. (Ord. 299, 6-2-2025)
3-10-6: PROHIBITED SALES:
It is a violation of this Section for any person to sell or offer to sell any
tobacco, tobacco product, or tobacco related device:
   A.   To any person under the age of twenty one (21) years.
   B.   By means of any type of vending machine.
   C.   By means of self-service methods whereby the customer does not need to
make verbal or written request to an employee of the licensed premise in order
to receive the tobacco, tobacco related device, electronic delivery device, or
nicotine or lobelia delivery product, and whereby there is not a physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco related device, electronic delivery device, or
nicotine or lobelia delivery product between the licensee or the licensee's
employee and the customer.
   D.   By means of loosies as defined herein.
   E.   Containing opium, morphine, jimson weed, bella donna, strychnos,
cocaine, marijuana, or other deleterious, hallucinogenic, toxic, or controlled
substances except nicotine and other substances found naturally in tobacco or
added as part of an otherwise lawful manufacturing process. It is not the
intention of this provision to ban the sale of lawfully manufactured cigarettes
or other products subject to this chapter.
   F.   By any other means, or to any other person, or in any other manner or
form prohibited by Federal, State or other local law, City Code provision, or
regulations. (Ord. 299, 6-2-2025)
3-10-7: VENDING MACHINES:
It is unlawful for any person licensed under this Section to allow the sale of
tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices by the means of a vending
machine unless minors are at all times prohibited from entering the licensed
establishment. (Ord. 299, 6-2-2025)
3-10-8: SELF SERVICE SALES:
It is unlawful for a licensee under this Section to allow the sale of tobacco,
tobacco products, or tobacco related devices by any means whereby the customer
may have access to such items without having to request the item from the
licensee or the licensee's employee and whereby there is not a physical
exchange of the tobacco, tobacco product, or the tobacco related device between
the licensee or his or her clerk and the customer. All tobacco, tobacco
products, and tobacco related devices shall either be stored behind a counter
or other area not freely accessible to customers or in a case or other storage
unit not left open and accessible to the general public. Licensees which
prohibit individuals less than twenty one (21) years of age from entering the
premises and which derive at least ninety percent (90%) of their revenue from
tobacco and tobacco-related products are exempt from this subdivision. (Ord.
299, 6-2-2025)
3-10-9: LIQUID PACKAGING:
It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to sell or offer to sell
any liquid, whether or not such liquid contains nicotine, which is intended for
human consumption and use in an electronic delivery device, in packaging that
is not child-resistant. Upon request, a licensee shall provide a copy of the
certificate of compliance or full laboratory testing report for the packaging
used. (Ord. 299, 6-2-2025)
3-10-10: RESPONSIBILITY:
All licensees under this section shall be responsible for the actions of their
employees in regard to the sale of tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco related
devices on the licensed premise, and the sale of such an item by an employee
shall be considered a sale by the license holder. Nothing in this section shall
be construed as prohibiting the City from also subjecting the clerk to whatever
penalties are appropriate under this section, State or Federal law, or other
applicable law or regulation. (Ord. 299, 6-2-2025)
3-10-11: COMPLIANCE CHECKS AND INSPECTIONS:
All licensed premises shall be open to inspection by the City police or other
authorized City official during regular business hours. From time to time, but
at least once per year, the City shall conduct compliance checks by engaging,
with the written consent of their parents or guardians, minors over the age of
seventeen (17) years but less than twenty one (21) years to enter the licensed
premise to attempt to purchase tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related
devices. Minors used for the purpose of compliance checks shall not be guilty
of unlawful possession of tobacco, tobacco products, or tobacco related devices
when such items are obtained as part of the compliance check. No minor used in
compliance checks shall attempt to use a false identification or theatrical
makeup misrepresenting the minor's age. All minors lawfully engaged in a
compliance check shall answer all questions about the minor's age asked by the
licensee and shall produce any identification for which he or she is asked. The
minor shall be accompanied by the City police or an authorized City official to
the location of the compliance check. Nothing in this section shall prohibit
compliance checks authorized by State or Federal laws for educational,
research, or training purposes, or required for the enforcement of a particular
State or Federal law. (Ord. 299, 6-2-2025)
3-10-12: VIOLATIONS:
   A.   Notice: Upon discovery of a suspected violation, the alleged violator
shall be issued, either personally or by mail, a citation that sets forth the
alleged violation and which shall inform the alleged violator of his or her
right to be heard on the accusation.
   B.   Hearings: If a person accused of violating this section so requests, a
hearing shall be scheduled, the time and place of which shall be published and
provided to the accused violator.
   C.   Hearing Officer: The Council or a person or persons designated by the
Council shall serve as the hearing officer.
   D.   Decision: If the hearing officer determines that a violation of this
section did occur, that decision, along with the hearing officer's reasons for
finding a violation and the penalty to be imposed under this section, shall be
recorded in writing, a copy of which shall be provided to the accused violator.
Likewise, if the hearing officer finds that no violation occurred or finds
grounds for not imposing any penalty, such findings shall be recorded and a
copy provided to the acquitted accused violator.
   E.   Appeals: Appeals of any decision made by the hearing officer shall be
filed in the District Court for the County in which the alleged violation
occurred.
   F.   Misdemeanor Prosecution; No Administrative Penalty: Nothing in this
Section shall prohibit the City from seeking prosecution as a misdemeanor for
any alleged violation of this section. If the City elects to seek misdemeanor
prosecution, no administrative penalty shall be imposed.
   G.   Continued Violation: Each violation, and every day in which a violation
occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 299, 6-2-2025)
3-10-13: PENALTIES:
   A.   Licensees: Any licensee found to have violated this section, or whose
employee shall have violated this section, shall be charged an administrative
penalty of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00) and a written violation warning
from the City for a first violation of this section. For a second violation, an
administrative penalty of five hundred dollars ($500.00) shall be imposed and
the licensee's authority to sell tobacco products or tobacco related devices
shall be suspended for not less than three (3) days. For a third violation, an
administrative penalty of seven hundred fifty dollars ($750.00) shall be
imposed and the licensee's authority to sell tobacco products or tobacco
related devices shall be suspended for not less than ten (10) days. For a
fourth violation, the licensee's authority to sell tobacco products or tobacco
related devices shall be revoked.
   B.   Other Individuals: An individual who sells tobacco products or tobacco
related devices to a person under the age of twenty one (21) years shall be
charged an administrative fee of two hundred fifty dollars ($250.00). Upon a
juvenile violating this section, the penalty shall be in accordance with
Minnesota Statutes, Section 260.195.
   C.   Misdemeanor: Any violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 299, 6-2-2025)
3-10-14: EXCEPTIONS AND DEFENSES:
It shall be an affirmative defense to the violation of this section for a
person to have reasonably, and in good faith, relied upon representations of
proof of age as described by State law. (Ord. 299, 6-2-2025)
TITLE 4
HEALTH AND SAFETY
CHAPTER 1
HAWLEY MUNICIPAL AIRPORT AERIAL SPRAY FACILITY
SECTION:
4-1-1: Use Of Spray Facility Required
4-1-2: Storage And Disposal Of Chemicals
4-1-3: Bonds, Licensing And Insurance Requirements
4-1-4: Penalty
4-1-1: USE OF SPRAY FACILITY REQUIRED:
No person conducting an aerial spray applicator's business and using the Hawley
Municipal Airport in connection therewith shall load or unload chemicals, or
clean or wash aircraft involved in aerial spray applications, at any location
at the Hawley Municipal Airport other than within the aerial spray facility
provided at said airport. (Ord. 179, 4-22-1987)
4-1-2: STORAGE AND DISPOSAL OF CHEMICALS:
   A.    No person operating an aerial spray application business and using the
Hawley Municipal Airport in connection therewith shall store or dispose of
chemicals used in such operation in any manner other than as provided by the
State and Federal regulations for such storage and disposition.
   B.    No person operating an aerial spray applicator business and using the
Hawley Municipal Airport facilities shall dump or otherwise dispose of
chemicals used in such operation in any manner that would contaminate the
grounds within the airport boundaries. (Ord. 179, 4-22-1987)
4-1-3: BONDS, LICENSING AND INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Bond: No person operating an aerial spray business and using the
Hawley Municipal Airport facilities shall conduct such business or allow its
aircraft to operate from the Hawley Municipal Airport without first having
furnished to the City a bond in the sum of twenty five thousand dollars
($25,000.00) conditioned upon the proper storage, handling and disposal of
chemicals used in such aerial spray operation and to protect the City from any
loss or damage as a result of any discharge or spillage of such chemicals.
(Ord. 179, 4-22-1987; 1996 Code)
   B.    Permission From City; Insurance: No person shall operate an aerial
spray business from the Hawley Municipal Airport or allow its planes to use the
Hawley Municipal Airport and its aerial spray facility without first having
made application to the City for permission to do so and having paid to the
City fees and provided liability insurance in such amounts as the City Council
may establish from time to time by resolution.
   C.    State Aircraft And Applicator Licenses: No aerial spray applicator
using the Hawley Municipal Airport for the conduct of his business shall allow
any aircraft to operate from the Hawley Municipal Airport without such aircraft
being property licensed by the State and the Federal Aeronautics Administration
and without applicator having a proper aerial spray applicator license from the
State. (Ord. 179, 4-22-1987)
4-1-4: PENALTY:
   A.    Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be guilty of committing a misdemeanor and shall be subject
to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code.
   B.    Notwithstanding the penalty provision of this Chapter, nothing therein
shall prevent the City from applying to the District Court of Clay County,
Minnesota, to obtain appropriate injunctions to prevent further violation of
the terms of this Chapter. (Ord. 179, 4-22-1987; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 2
GARBAGE AND REFUSE
SECTION:
4-2-1: Definitions
4-2-2: Garbage And Refuse Collection Required
4-2-3: Garbage Container Requirements
4-2-4: Collection
4-2-5: Starting Or Discontinuing Service
4-2-6: Maintenance Of Sanitary Conditions
4-2-7: Collection And Disposal Fees
4-2-8: Improper Disposal Of Trash And Refuse
4-2-9: Penalty
4-2-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words and their
derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
GARBAGE: Waste foodstuffs or table wastes of vegetable or animal origin,
together with other incidental admixtures.
REFUSE: All inorganic matter such as tin cans, glass, paper, ashes, sweepings.
Stones, sod, green grass clippings, earth, concrete, contractor's building
materials, large automobile parts, large appliances, waste petroleum products,
inflammable liquids, tree trunk sections, animal wastes except when adequately
wrapped, or articles so heavy or bulky that they cannot be easily lifted by one
person shall not be considered refuse.
TOXIC OR HAZARDOUS WASTES: Substances, whether in liquid, gaseous or solid
form, which when collected, stored, transported or disposed of, may be acutely
toxic to humans or other animals, or plant life, or be directly damaging to
property, including, but not limited to pesticides, acids, caustics,
pathological wastes, radioactive materials and similar noxious substances.
(Ord. 138, 4-11-1973; 1996 Code)
4-2-2: GARBAGE AND REFUSE COLLECTION REQUIRED:
Each person shall dispose of garbage and refuse which accumulates upon their
property at least once a week. Every householder, occupant and owner of any
dwelling, boarding house, apartment building or any other structure utilized
for dwelling purposes shall use the garbage and refuse collection as provided
by the City. (Ord. 138, 4-11-1973; 1996 Code)
4-2-3: GARBAGE CONTAINER REQUIREMENTS 1 :
   A.    Size And Capacity: Every householder, occupant, and owner of any
dwelling, boarding house, apartment building or any other structure utilized
for dwelling purposes and any restaurant, industrial or commercial
establishment that accumulates garbage shall provide one or more fly-tight
garbage containers of thirty (30) or thirty two (32) gallon capacity to contain
all garbage which accumulates between collections. Garbage containers of less
capacity now in use may continue to be used until they become unserviceable.
Also plastic bags of sufficient strength to prevent tearing of the bag or loss
of the garbage or refuse therefrom may be used. (Ord. 138, 4-11-1973; 1996
Code)
   B.    Weight Limits: No such container shall weigh in excess of seventy five
(75) pounds when full.
   C.    Vats: All apartment buildings containing four (4) or more units, and
each commercial, industrial establishment, or restaurant where garbage
accumulates and the volume exceeds four (4) thirty (30) or thirty two (32)
gallon containers per week may be required to use vat service with pickup of no
less than once a week. The actual size of vat and frequency of service is to be
based on need as determined by the city council or its designated
representatives. Vats shall be of no less than one cubic yard capacity and
designed with the proper attachments for lifting into refuse trucks. (Ord. 138,
4-11-1973)
 
Notes
1 1. See also subsection 4-3-2E of this Title.
4-2-4: COLLECTION:
All garbage and refuse accumulated in the city shall be collected, conveyed and
disposed of by contract with the city council. The city council shall have the
authority to make rules and regulations concerning day of collection, type and
location of waste containers and such other matters as it deems necessary;
provided, that such are not contrary to the provisions of this chapter. (Ord.
138, 4-11-1973; amd. 1996 Code)
4-2-5: STARTING OR DISCONTINUING SERVICE:
It shall be the responsibility of every resident to notify the city at least
one week in advance of starting or discontinuing service. (Ord. 138, 4-11-1973)
4-2-6: MAINTENANCE OF SANITARY CONDITIONS:
Persons accumulating garbage or refuse shall comply with the following
requirements:
   A.    Refuse In The Street: No person shall place any garbage or refuse in
any street, alley or other public place, or upon any private property whether
owned by such person or not, unless it be in proper containers for collection
or under express approval granted by the city council, nor shall any person
throw or deposit any refuse in any stream or body of water.
   B.    Scattering Of Refuse: No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit
any garbage or refuse in such a manner that it may be carried or deposited by
the elements off his property within the city.
   C.    Burning Of Refuse And Garbage:
      1.    No person shall bury or burn any garbage or refuse in the city
except in accordance with regulations established by the state pollution
control agency.
      2.    No garbage or refuse shall be burned in any yard, street or open
area.
   D.    Placement Of Container: Garbage and refuse containers shall be placed
on the day of collection at ground level on the property, and adjacent to the
alley or street. They must be removed no later than eight o'clock (8:00) P.M.
on the day of collection. (Ord. 138, 4-11-1973)
   E.    Contagious Disease Refuse: The removal of wearing apparel, bedding or
other refuse from homes or places where highly infectious or contagious
diseases have prevailed shall be performed under the supervision and direction
of the county health department. Such refuse shall not be placed in containers
for regular collections. (Ord. 138, 4-11-1973; amd. 1996 Code)
   F.    Inflammable Or Explosive Refuse: Highly inflammable or explosive
materials shall not be placed in containers for regular collection but shall be
disposed of as directed by the fire chief at the expense of the owner or
possessor thereof.
   G.    Toxic Or Hazardous Wastes: Toxic or hazardous wastes shall not be
placed in regular garbage containers but shall be placed separately for
collection and shall be contained in durable, leakproof containers that are
clearly labeled as to the contents. (Ord. 138, 4-11-1973)
4-2-7: COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL FEES:
The fees for collection and disposal of garbage and refuse for all residential
and commercial users shall be as shown in schedule B of section
3-8-1 of this code. The city shall compute the amount due the city for garbage
and refuse collection and render a statement thereof to each user. All amounts
due hereunder shall be payable at the office of the city administrator on the
tenth of the month of which the statement is presented. A penalty of ten
percent (10%) shall be added to all bills not paid by the date fixed for final
payment and collection may be stopped without notice. All accounts shall be
delinquent if not paid within thirty (30) days of due date. Such charges shall
be a charge against the owner, lessee or occupier of any residential or
commercial unit and any such charge properly billed and unpaid may be collected
in a civil action or, at the discretion of the city council, may be certified
to the county auditor with taxes against the property so served. (Ord. 138, 4-
11-1973; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
4-2-8: IMPROPER DISPOSAL OF TRASH AND REFUSE:
Should the owner or occupant of any premises located within the city fail to
dispose of garbage or trash in accordance with this chapter, as herein
provided, the same may be disposed of by the city, which shall seek
reimbursement of the reasonable cost and expense in the manner set forth in
section
4-2-7 of this chapter. (Ord. 138, 4-11-1973)
4-2-9: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided
in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 138, 4-11-1973; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
NUISANCES
SECTION:
4-3-1: Public Nuisance Defined
4-3-2: Nuisances Affecting Health
4-3-3: Nuisances Affecting Morals And Decency
4-3-4: Nuisances Affecting Peace And Safety
4-3-5: Duties Of City Officers
4-3-6: Abatement
4-3-7: Recovery Of Costs (Rep. by Ord. 243A, 11-6-2006)
4-3-8: Penalty
4-3-1: PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED:
"Public nuisance" means any fence, wall, shed, deck, house, garage, building,
structure, or any part of the aforesaid; or any tree, pole, smokestack; or any
excavation, hole, pit, basement, cellar, sidewalk, subspace, dock, wharf, or
landing dock; or any lot, land, yard, premises or location which in its
entirety, or in part thereof, by reason of the condition in which the same is
found or permitted to be or remain, shall or may endanger the health, safety,
life, limb or property, or cause any hurt, harm, inconvenience, discomfort,
damage or injury to any one or more individuals in the city, in any one or more
of the following particulars:
   A.    By reason of being a menace, threat and/or hazard to the general
health and safety of the community;
   B.    By reason of being a fire hazard;
   C.    By reason of being unsafe for occupancy, or use on, in, upon, about or
around the aforesaid property; or
   D.    By reason of lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of the
property, and/or being vacant, any of which depreciates the enjoyment and use
of the property in the immediate vicinity to such an extent that it is harmful
to the community in which such property is situated or such condition exists.
(Ord. 243A, 11-6-2006)
4-3-2: NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   A.    Decayed Food: Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or
vegetable matter.
   B.    Animals Running At Large: All diseased animals running at large.
   C.    Stagnant Water: All ponds or pools of stagnant water.
   D.    Debris: Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris. (Ord. 152,
11-11-1977)
   E.    Garbage Cans: Garbage cans which are not rodent free or flytight or
which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors 1 . (Ord. 152, 11-11-1977; amd. 1996 Code)
   F.    Wells, Cisterns; Pollution: The pollution of any public well or
cistern, stream or lake, canal or body of water by sewage, industrial waste or
other substances.
   G.    Weeds: All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon
public or private property.
   H.    Smoke; Soot: Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities.
   I.    Contagious Diseases: All public exposure of persons having a
contagious disease.
   J.    Offensive Trades: Any offensive trade or business as defined by
statute not licensed by the city. (Ord. 152, 11-11-1977)
   K.    Privy Vaults: Any container for the storage and/or treatment of
manure. (1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  4-2-3 of this title.
4-3-3: NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY:
The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals and
decency:
   A.    Gambling Devices: All gambling devices, slot machines and punchboards.
   B.    Betting; Bookmaking: Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in
such occupations.
   C.    Prostitution: All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or
promiscuous sexual intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and
bawdyhouses.
   D.    Liquor Manufacturing: All places where intoxicating liquor is
manufactured or disposed of in violation of law where, in violation of law,
persons are permitted to resort for the purpose of drinking intoxicating
liquor, or where intoxicating liquor is kept for sale or other disposition in
violation of law, and all liquor, and other property used for maintaining such
a place.
   E.    Use Of Motor Vehicles For Offenses: Any vehicle used for the
transportation of intoxicating liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse,
or any other immoral or illegal purpose. (Ord. 152, 11-11-1977)
4-3-4: NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY:
The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and safety:
   A.    Snow And Ice Removal: All snow and ice not removed from public
sidewalks twelve (12) hours after the snow or other precipitation causing the
condition has ceased to fall.
   B.    Obstructed View; Trees: All trees, hedges, billboards or other
obstructions which prevent persons from having a clear view of all traffic
approaching an intersection.
   C.    Dangerous Trees: All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to
the surface of a sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or
vehicles.
   D.    Noise: All unnecessary noises and annoying vibrations.
   E.    Excavations: Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use
by the public of streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds except under such
conditions as are permitted by this code or other applicable law.
   F.    Antennas: Radio aerials or television antennas erected or maintained
in a dangerous manner.
   G.    Crowds: Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or
any use of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to
gather, obstructing traffic and free use of the street or sidewalk.
   H.    Signs: All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over
streets and sidewalks, or so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not
constructed and maintained as provided by ordinance.
   I.    Water On Sidewalk: The allowing of rainwater, ice or snow to fall from
any building or to flow across any sidewalk.
   J.    Barbed Wire Fences: Any barbed wire fence less than six feet (6')
above the ground and within three feet (3') of a public sidewalk or way 1 .
   K.    Unguarded Machinery: All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public
place, or so situated or operated on private property as to attract the public.
   L.    Wastewater: Wastewater cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or
other public property.
   M.    Discarded Machinery: Accumulations in the open of discarded or unused
machinery, household appliances, automobile bodies, or other material, in a
manner conducive to the harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the rank
growth of vegetation among the items so accumulated, or in manner creating
fire, health or safety hazards from such accumulation.
   N.    Wells, Holes: Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left
uncovered or in such other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or
other person coming onto the premises where it is located.
   O.    Obstruction Of Waterways: Obstruction of the free flow of water in a
natural waterway or a public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash or other
materials.
   P.    Dangerous Materials: The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk
or other public property any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substances
which may injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing
over such substance.
   Q.    Garbage: The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right of way
or on adjacent private property.
   R.    Miscellaneous Items: All other conditions or things which are likely
to cause injury to the person or property of anyone. (Ord. 152, 11-11-1977)
 
Notes
1 1. See also section
  5-2-3 of this code.
4-3-5: DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS:
   A.    City Administrator: The city administrator shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter with reference to nuisances affecting public health
and public safety.
   B.    Police Department: The police department shall enforce the provisions
relating to nuisances affecting public morals and shall assist the other
designated officers in the enforcement of other provisions of this chapter.
Such officers shall have the power to inspect private premises and take all
reasonable precautions to prevent the commission and maintenance of public
nuisances. (Ord. 152, 11-11-1977)
4-3-6: ABATEMENT:
   A.    Abatement Procedure:
      1.    If after inspecting the property the city declares the existence of
a public nuisance, the abatement procedure shall be followed. Photographs and
reports of the findings and inspections shall be made and filed with the city.
      2.    The city shall determine the individual, firm or corporation who,
from the records in the recorder's office, appears to be the title owner of the
property and immediately cause a written notice to be served on such
individual, firm or corporation by personal service or by leaving a copy of the
notice at the usual place of residence or business of such owner, or address of
such owner shown in the recorder's records, or by certified or registered mail
to such owner at such place or address by United States mail. If service of the
written notice is unable to be perfected by any of the methods described above,
the city shall cause a copy of the notice to be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city, once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks, and
shall further cause a copy of the notice to be left with the individual, if
any, in possession of the property on which it is alleged the public nuisance
exists, or if there is no individual in possession of the property, the city
shall cause a copy of the notice to be posted at such structure, location or
premises. The city shall also determine from the recorder's office who the lien
holder of the property, if any, as documented therein, is and cause a written
notice to be served on the lien holder by United States mail, return receipt.
      3.    The notice to the owner, and lien holder, if any, of the property
shall state clearly and concisely the findings of the city with respect to the
existence of a public nuisance. The notice shall further state that unless the
owner abates the public nuisance, the public nuisance shall be abated by the
city at the expense of the owner.
      4.    Any person who is the record owner of the premises, location or
structure at the time an order pursuant to this section is issued and served
upon them, shall be responsible for complying with that order, and shall be
liable for any costs incurred by the city.
   B.    Abatement By Owner:
      1.    Within thirty (30) days after the posting and mailing of a notice
to abate a public nuisance, the owner shall remove and abate the public
nuisance or show that no public nuisance in fact exists. Such showing shall be
made by filing a written statement that no public nuisance exists. The
statement shall be filed with the city.
      2.    The city, upon written application by the owner within the thirty
(30) day period after the notice has been served, may grant additional time for
the owner to abate the public nuisance, provided that such extension is limited
to a specific time period.
   C.    Appeal Procedures; Hearing:
      1.    The owner or occupant of the property who has been served with a
notice pursuant to this section that a public nuisance exists and that it must
be abated within thirty (30) days, may, within seven (7) calendar days after
receipt of such notice, make a written demand to the city of Hawley for a
hearing on the question of whether a public nuisance in fact exists. The
hearing shall be held within fourteen (14) calendar days following receipt by
the city of the written demand and at least two (2) days' notice of the hearing
shall be given to the individual who made the written demand for the hearing.
      2.    The hearing shall be conducted by the city council. The city
council may amend or modify the notice and/or order, or extend the time for
compliance with the city's order by the owner by such date as the majority of
the council may determine.
      3.    The owner of the subject property shall be given the opportunity to
present evidence to the council in the course of the hearing.
      4.    In those instances where the public nuisance has been abated by the
city, the city council shall have discretion to waive the cost of abating a
public nuisance, in whole or in part, if, in the course of the hearing
reviewing the decision, the council finds that any one of the following did not
conform to the provisions of this section:
         a.    The notice to remove the public nuisance;
         b.    The work performed by abating the public nuisance; or
         c.    The computation of charges.
   D.    Abatement By City:
      1.    Should any public nuisance not be abated at the expiration of time
stated in the notice/order or within such additional time as the council may
grant, the city shall have the authority to enter upon the property and abate
the public nuisance. In abating the public nuisance, the city may go to
whatever extent necessary to complete the abatement of the public nuisance and
should it be practicable to salvage any material derived from the abatement,
the city may sell the salvaged material at private or public sale at the price
obtainable and shall keep an accounting of the proceeds.
      2.    The proceeds, if any, obtained from the sale of any material
salvaged as a result of an abatement of a public nuisance by the city shall be
deposited to the general fund of the city and any deficit between the amount
received and the cost of abatement may be levied as an assessment against the
property in question by the city council and collected as any other assessment
by the city; however, any other alternative collection method may be utilized
by the city to recoup the deficit. Should the proceeds of the sale of such
salvaged material exceed the cost of abatement, the surplus, if any, shall be
paid to the owner of the property from which the public nuisance was abated
when a proper claim to the excess is established.
      3.    In abating a public nuisance, the city may call upon any of the
city departments or divisions for whatever assistance shall be deemed necessary
or may by private contract cause the abatement of the public nuisance.
      4.    The city shall, after completing the removal and abatement, file a
statement of costs with the clerk/treasurer.
   E.    Notice Of Assessment; Appeal Of Charges:
      1.    Upon receipt of the statement of costs from the city, the clerk/
treasurer shall mail to the owner of the property upon which the public
nuisance has been abated notice of the amounts set forth in the statement plus
an additional amount sufficient to defray the costs of the notice and stating
that the city proposes to assess against the property the amount set forth in
the notice and that objections to the proposed assessment must be made in
writing and received by the clerk/treasurer within twenty (20) days from the
date of the notice. Upon the expiration of the twenty (20) day period, if no
objections have been received by the clerk/treasurer, the clerk/treasurer shall
enter that amount in the city lien's docket which therefore shall constitute a
lien against the property.
      2.    If objections of either the property owner or their representative
are received by the clerk/treasurer prior to the expiration of the twenty (20)
day period, the clerk/treasurer shall refer the matter to the appropriate
committee for administrative review.
      3.    Upon conclusion of administrative review, the committee shall make
a written determination that the amount of the charges shall be canceled,
reduced, or remain the same. A copy of this determination shall be furnished to
the person making the objections together with a notice of such person's right
to appeal to the city council.
      4.    If no appeal of a determination by the committee is filed within
the time period allowed, a copy of the determination shall be furnished to the
clerk/treasurer who shall then enter a lien in the amount determined by the
committee in the city lien's docket as provided in subsection E1 of this
section.
      5.    If a timely appeal is received by the city council, a hearing shall
be scheduled on the matter. If, after the hearing, the council determines that
the proposed assessment does not comply with subsection E6 of this section, the
city council shall so certify to the clerk/treasurer and the proposed
assessment shall be canceled. If, after the hearing, it is determined that the
proposed assessment or any part of it is proper and authorized, the city
council shall so certify to the clerk/treasurer who shall enter a lien in such
amount as determined appropriate by the council, in the lien's docket as
provided in subsection E1 of this section. The determination of the council is
a final administrative decision and is not appealable.
      6.    The committee, in administrative review, or the council, on appeal,
may:
         a.    Reduce or cancel a proposed assessment if it is determined that:
            (1)    Any of the following did not conform to the provisions of
this section:
(A) A notice to remove public nuisance; or
(B) The work performed in abating the public nuisance; or
(C) The computation of charges.
         b.    The committee, in administrative review, or the council, on
appeal, may reduce a proposed assessment by eliminating the civil penalty
portion of the invoice if it is determined that:
            (1)    The current owner was not in possession of the property at
the time the notice required in this section was posted; or
            (2)    The owner did not receive the notice to remove the public
nuisance, did not have knowledge of the public nuisance and could not, with the
exercise of reasonable diligence, have had such knowledge.
      7.    If, after a lien had been entered in the docket of city liens,
there is a written request of an owner who alleges that the owner did not
receive notice of the proposed assessment, the clerk/treasurer shall refer the
matter for review pursuant to subsection E2 of this section.
      8.    The lien may be canceled or reduced by the committee, on
administrative review, or the council, on appeal, if it is determined that the
owner did not receive notice of the proposed assessment, did not previously
have knowledge of the lien or of the public nuisance abatement work
constituting the basis of the lien, could not, in the exercise of reasonable
care or diligence, have had such knowledge, and in addition, that the
circumstances are such that a reduction or cancellation of the charges would
have been appropriate had the matter been reviewed pursuant to this section
prior to assessment. Upon receipt of a certification from the committee,
pursuant to subsection E5 of this section the clerk/treasurer shall cancel or
reduce the lien if required by the determination of the committee and/or city
council.
   F.    Personal Liability Of Owner:
      1.    The person who is the owner for the property at the time at which
the notice required under this section is posted shall be personally liable for
the amount of the assessment including all interest, civil penalties, and other
charges.
   G.    Overhead Charge, Civil Penalties:
      1.    Whenever a public nuisance is abated by the city, the city shall
keep an accurate account of all expenses incurred, including an overhead charge
of twenty five percent (25%) for administration and a civil penalty of three
hundred dollars ($300.00) for each public nuisance abated.
      2.    When the city has abated a public nuisance maintained by any owner
of real property, for each subsequent public nuisance that is abated by the
city within two (2) consecutive calendar years concerning real property, owned
by the same person, an additional civil penalty of fifty percent (50%), minimum
of fifty dollars ($50.00), of the cost of abatement shall be added to the
costs, charges and civil penalties provided for in subsection G1 of this
section. The civil penalty shall be imposed without regard to whether the
public nuisances abated by the city involve the same real property or are of
the same character. (Ord. 243A, 11-6-2006)
4-3-7: RECOVERY OF COSTS:
(Rep. by Ord. 243A, 11-6-2006)
4-3-8: PENALTY:
Any person convicted of violating any provisions of this chapter shall be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 152, 11-7-1977; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
EMERGENCY FIRE SERVICES
SECTION:
4-4-1: Authority And Purpose
4-4-2: Definitions
4-4-3: Parties Affected
4-4-4: Service Charge Amounts
4-4-5: Billing And Collection
4-4-6: Application Of Collections
4-4-1: AUTHORITY AND PURPOSE:
This chapter is adopted pursuant to the city of Hawley's authority under
Minnesota statutes, sections 415.01, 366.011, and such other law as may apply.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish an emergency service charge for
fire services delivered by the fire district within the city's service area and
to provide a method for collecting the service charge amounts from the
recipients of the service. This chapter and the powers conferred by Minnesota
statutes, sections 415.01, 366.011, and 366.012 are in addition to and
supplemental of, the powers provided the city by any other law to impose and
collect a service charge or assessment for a service provided by the city or
contracted for by the city. (Ord. 265, 4-21-2014)
4-4-2: DEFINITIONS:
ACTUAL COST: The cost actually incurred by the Hawley area fire district to
replace materials, supplies and equipment expended or damaged in the course of
delivering fire service, to the extent the cost is not paid by the fire
district's insurer.
CITY: City of Hawley, Clay County, Minnesota.
FIRE SERVICE: Any deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to
extinguish a fire or perform any preventative measure in an effort to protect
equipment, life, or property in an area threatened by fire. It also includes
the deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to provide fire
suppression, rescue, extrication, and any other services related to fire and
rescue as may occasionally occur.
HAWLEY AREA FIRE DISTRICT OR FIRE DISTRICT: Refers to the "Hawley area fire
district", a joint powers entity established among the city of Hawley, Cromwell
Township, Highland Grove Township, Parke Township, Eglon Township, Hawley
Township, and Skree Township, all located within Clay County, Minnesota,
pursuant to Minnesota statutes, section 471.59, to jointly provide fire service
to the communities participating in the agreement.
SERVICE AREA: The portion of the city designated as the primary service area to
the Hawley area fire district as shown on the map attached to the ordinance
codified herein.
SERVICE CHARGE: The charge imposed by the city on a service recipient receiving
fire service by the fire district within the service area. The amounts that
make up the charges are as established in this chapter.
SERVICE RECIPIENT: Any person or persons receiving fire service delivered by
the Hawley area fire district within the service area and includes the owner of
any real or personal property on which, or related to which, fire service is
provided.
TOWN BOARD: The board of supervisors of one of the following township entities:
Eglon, Hawley, Parke, Skree, Cromwell, or Highland Grove, Clay County,
Minnesota. (Ord. 265, 4-21-2014)
4-4-3: PARTIES AFFECTED:
The service charge imposed by this chapter applies to fire service provided by
the Hawley area fire district within the city's service area. The service
charge applies, and shall be billed, to any person, or the owner of any
property, receiving fire service, including as a result of a motor vehicle
accident, within the service area, regardless of whether they reside or own
property within the city. Such persons shall be required to pay the service
charge applicable to the fire service delivered. (Ord. 265, 4-21-2014)
4-4-4: SERVICE CHARGE AMOUNTS:
The total amount of the service charge for the delivery of fire service shall
be determined based on flat rates, rates per hour, and actual costs as set
annually by the Hawley area fire district board.
For those charges determined based on an hourly rate, the total number of hours
shall be calculated from the time the first firetruck leaves the fire hall
until all trucks and equipment are returned to the fire hall. (Ord. 265, 4-21-
2014)
4-4-5: BILLING AND COLLECTION:
   A.    Billing Entity: The city council hereby authorizes the fire district
to bill and collect from the service recipient the service charge imposed by
this chapter. All such billing shall comply with the provisions of this chapter
and the city council reserves the right to review the billing practices of the
fire district as it determines is appropriate.
   B.    Billing Statement: The fire district shall prepare a detailed billing
statement of the service charge which shall, at a minimum, contain all of the
following information: name and address of the service recipient; location,
date, time and description of the fire service provided; the amount of time
spent on the call; a detailed description of each item damaged during the call.
The fire district shall provide the city a copy of the billing statement no
later than when it is sent to the service recipient. The city council shall, to
the extent required by the Minnesota government data practices act, treat any
not public data contained in the billing statement consistent with the
applicable designation of the data.
   C.    Those Charged: Service recipients will be billed, and shall be
required to pay, the service charge incurred for the delivery of fire service.
The service charge shall be billed to a service recipient even if that person
did not request the service if the fire district personnel in charge of the
scene reasonably determine the person or property required fire service. All
service recipients will be billed whether or not the fire service is covered by
insurance. Any portion of the service charge not covered by a party's insurance
remains the obligation of the service recipient.
   D.    Payment: Service recipients billed for fire service shall have thirty
five (35) days to pay the bill in full from the date of the billing statement.
If the service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered
delinquent and the fire district shall send notice of delinquency to service
recipient, with a copy to the city.
   E.    Delinquent Amounts: If the service charge remains unpaid for thirty
(30) days after the date of the delinquency notice, collection of the service
charge shall be transferred to the city. The city will use all practical and
reasonable legal means to collect the service charge which may include, but is
not limited to, collection pursuant to Minnesota statutes, sections 366.012,
and 415.01. The service recipient shall be liable for all collection costs
incurred by the city including, but not limited to, administrative costs,
reasonable attorney fees, and court costs. Such collection costs actually
incurred by the city shall be considered part of the service charge and are
collectible as provided in this chapter.
   F.    Collect With Property Taxes: The city may collect any unpaid service
charge under Minnesota statutes, sections 366.012, and 415.01 by certifying the
amount to the auditor of any county in Minnesota in which the service recipient
owns real property. On or before September 15, the city shall provide the
service recipient written notice of its intent to certify the unpaid service
charge amount for collection together with the taxes levied on the service
recipient's property. The city shall then certify the amount to the county
auditor on or before October 15. The amount certified shall be subject to the
same penalties, interest, and other conditions provided for the collection of
property taxes. The county auditor shall remit to the city all service charge
amounts collected on behalf of the city. When fire service is provided later in
the year such that the required notice and certification cannot be completed by
the applicable deadline, the city shall provide notice and certify the amount
for the following property tax collection cycle. (Ord. 265, 4-21-2014)
4-4-6: APPLICATION OF COLLECTIONS:
All service charge amounts collected by the fire district pursuant to this
chapter shall be retained by the fire district. Delinquent service charge
amounts collected by the city as provided herein shall be paid over to the fire
district, except that the city may reimburse itself from the amounts collected
for the costs it incurred to collect the delinquent service charge. All service
charge amount collected or received by the fire district shall be placed in its
account and shall only be used for the operational or capital costs of the fire
district. (Ord. 265, 4-21-2014)
TITLE 5
POLICE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
POLICE DEPARTMENT
SECTION:
5-1-1: Department Membership
5-1-2: Bond Of Officers
5-1-3: General Powers And Duties
5-2-4: Use Of Cannabis And Cannabis Derived Products In Public Places
5-1-1: DEPARTMENT MEMBERSHIP:
The Police Department shall consist of a Chief, who shall have supervision over
the Department, and such other officers and members as may be provided from
time to time by the Mayor and City Council. All members of the Police
Department shall be conservators of the peace and with the duties and powers
assigned to such conservators by statute. (1996 Code)
5-1-2: BOND OF OFFICERS:
The Chief of Police and all other officers created under Section
5-1-1 hereof shall execute a bond to the City with good and sufficient
securities to be approved by the Mayor and City Council conditioned for the
faithful performance of the duties of office. (1996 Code)
5-1-3: GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
   A.    Police Chief:
      1.    Records And Reports: The Police Chief shall keep such records and
make such reports concerning the activities of the Department as may be
required by statute or by the City Council.
      2.    Responsibility For Department: The Chief shall be responsible for
the performance by the Police Department of all its functions and all persons
who are members of the Department shall serve subject to the orders of the
Chief of Police.
   B.    Department Members: It shall be the duty of the members of the Police
Department to see to the enforcement of all of the ordinances of the City and
all statutes applicable herein and to preserve order and prevent infractions of
the law and arrest violators thereof. (1996 Code)
5-2-4: USE OF CANNABIS AND CANNABIS DERIVED PRODUCTS IN PUBLIC PLACES:
   A.   Purpose And Intent:
      1.   This section is adopted by the Hawley City Council for the purpose
of protecting public health and safety by regulating/prohibiting the use of
cannabis and cannabis derived products in public places and places of public
accommodation within the City of Hawley.
      2.   By enacting 2023 Session Law, Chapter 63, H. F. No. 100 (hereinafter
referred to "State Legislation"), the Minnesota Legislature passed the adult-
use cannabis bill. Under that bill, the adult use, possession and personal
growing of cannabis became legal August 1, 2023.
      3.   State legislation authorizes adoption of a local ordinance
establishing a petty misdemeanor offense for public use of cannabis. See State
Legislation Sec. 19, Minn. Stat. 152.0263, Subd. 5, or successor statute.
      4.   The City wishes to be proactive in protecting public health and
safety by enacting regulations that will mitigate threats presented to the
public by the public use of cannabis.
      5.   The City of Hawley (hereinafter "the City") recognizes the risks
that use of cannabis products present to the health, welfare, and safety of
citizens in the City of Hawley.
   B.   Definitions: Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by
context, all terms shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The
following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
ADULT-USE      Cannabis flower that is approved for sale by the Office of Cannabis Management
CANNABIS       or is substantially similar to a product approved by the Office of Cannabis
FLOWER:        Management. Adult-use cannabis flower does not include medical cannabis flower,
               hemp plant parts, or hemp-derived consumer products.
               A cannabis product that is approved for sale by the Office of Cannabis
ADULT-USE      Management or is substantially similar to a product approved by the Office of
CANNABIS       Cannabis Management. Adult-use cannabis product includes edible cannabis
PRODUCTS:      products but does not include medical cannabinoid products or lower-potency
               hemp edibles.
               The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a cannabis plant. Cannabis
CANNABIS       flower includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical cannabis flower. Cannabis
FLOWER:        flower does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant parts, or hemp-derived
               consumer products.
               Any of the following:
               1.   Cannabis concentrate;
CANNABIS       2.   A product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited to
PRODUCT:       tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
               flower; or
               3.   Any other product that contains cannabis concentrate.
               1.   A product intended for human or animal consumption, does not contain
               cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and:
HEMP DERIVED      a.   Contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or
CONSUMER          b.   Contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived cannabinoids in
PRODUCTS:      combination with other ingredients.
               2.   Hemp-derived consumer products does not include artificially derived
               cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical products, hemp
               fiber products, or hemp grain.
               Any product that:
               1.   Is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
               2.   Contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived cannabinoid; in
               combination with food ingredients;
               3.   Is not a drug;
               4.   Consists of servings that contain no more than five (5) milligrams of
               delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, twenty five (25) milligrams of cannabidiol,
               twenty five (25) milligrams of cannabigerol, or any combination of those
LOWER-POTENCY  cannabinoids that does not exceed the identified amounts;
HEMP EDIBLE:   5.   Does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5 milligrams of all other
               cannabinoids per serving;
               6.   Does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than delta-
               9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
               7.   Does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
               flower; and
               8.   Is a type of product approved for sale by the Office of Cannabis
               Management or is substantially similar to a product approved by the Office of
               Cannabis Management, including but not limited to products that resemble
               nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked goods.
               A business, refreshment, entertainment, recreation, or transportation facility
               of any kind, whose goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages, or
               accommodations are extended, offered, sold, or otherwise made available to the
               public.
                  Exceptions to public place or place of public accommodation. "A public
PLACE OF       place" or "a place of public accommodation" does not include the following:
PUBLIC         1.   A private residence, including the individual's curtilage or yard.
ACCOMMODATION: 2.   A private property, not generally accessible by the public, unless the
               individual is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower, cannabis
               products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products on the
               property by the owner of the property; or
               3.   On the premises of an establishment or event licensed to permit on-site
               consumption.
               A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk, any enclosed, indoor area
               used by the general public, including, but not limited to, theaters,
PUBLIC PLACE:  restaurants, bars, food establishments, places licensed to sell intoxicating
               liquor, wine, or malt beverages, retail businesses, gyms, common areas in
               buildings, public shopping areas, auditoriums, arenas, or other places of
               public accommodation.
               Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated cigar,
               cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing cannabis
SMOKING:       flower, cannabis products, artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-derived
               consumer products. Smoking includes carrying or using an activated electronic
               delivery device for human consumption through inhalation of aerosol or vapor
               from the product.
 
   C.   Prohibited Acts:
      1.   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place or a
place of public accommodation unless the premises is an establishment or an
event licensed to permit on-site consumption of adult-use cannabis flower and
adult use cannabis products. See State Legislation Sec. 9 Minn. Stat. 342.09
Subd. 1(2) or successor statute. See also State Legislation Minn. Stat. 342.09
Subd.1 {'{'}7){'{'}iii) or successor statute, and State Legislation Sec. 19
Minn. Stat. 152.0263, Subd. 5, or successor statute.
      2.   No person shall vaporize or smoke cannabis flower, cannabis
products, artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-derived consumer products
in any location where the smoke, aerosol, or vapor would be inhaled by a minor.
See State Legislation Sec. 9 Minn. Stat. 342.09, Subd. 1 (7)(b)(9) or successor
statute.
   D.   Penalty:
      1.   Criminal Penalty: A violation of this section shall be a petty
misdemeanor having a fine payable up to three hundred dollars ($300.00).
Nothing in this section prohibits the City from seeking prosecution for an
alleged violation.
   E.   Severability: If any section or provision of this section is held
invalid, such invalidity will not affect other sections or provisions that can
be given force and effect without the invalidated section or provision.
   F.   Effective Date: This section shall be in full force and effect from and
after its passage and publications as required by law. (Ord. 295, 3-4-2024)
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL OFFENSES
SECTION:
5-2-1: Misdemeanor Statutes Adopted By Reference
5-2-2: Noise
5-2-3: Barbed Wire Fences
5-2-1: MISDEMEANOR STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
   A.    All the provisions of the Minnesota State Statutes regarding crimes
and offenses considered as misdemeanors 1  are hereby incorporated by reference
and made a part of this Chapter as completely as if set forth fully herein,
including any variations, changes, amendments or additions thereto made by the
Minnesota State Legislature in the future regarding the aforesaid crimes and
offenses.
   B.    Any violation of the said statutes adopted by reference in subsection
A hereof is a violation of this Section when it occurs within the City. Any
person violating any provision of this Section shall be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. If a minimum fine or imprisonment is prescribed by the
State Statutes as referred to in subsection A hereof, such minimum penalty
shall be applied to a person convicted of the same offense under this Section.
(Ord. 127, 8-17-1970; 1996 Code)
 
Notes
1 1. See M.S.A. ch. 609 for Criminal Code.
5-2-2: NOISE:
   A.    Noisy Parties Prohibited; Complaint; Police Action:
      1.    No person shall participate in any party or other gathering of
people giving rise to noise, disturbing the peace, quiet or repose of another
person within the City.
      2.    When a police officer determines that a gathering is creating such
a noise disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than the
owner or tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to
immediately disperse. No person shall refuse to leave the premises after being
ordered by a police officer to do so.
      3.    Every owner of such premises, or tenant in charge of such premises,
who has knowledge of the disturbance shall cooperate with such police officer
and shall make reasonable effort to stop the disturbance.
      4.    The following shall be prima facie evidence in any prosecution
under this Section of the owner's or tenant's violation of this Section:
         a.    As to tenants, and owner if owner resides on the premises, if
twice or more on the same day, or if on successive days, the Hawley Police
Department is called upon to enforce the terms of this Section either by
citizen complaint or by personal investigation of a peace officer.
         b.    As to the owner, if the owner does not reside at the premises,
if after the owner receives written notice of three (3) violations of this
Section by the tenants at any premises owned by owner in the City within a
twelve (12) month period, and after receipt of such notice, the Hawley Police
Department is called upon to enforce this Section either by citizen complaint
or by personal investigation of a peace officer.
   B.    Types Of Noises Prohibited:
      1.    Unnecessary Noises: No person shall make or assist in making any
noise tending to unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet of persons in the
vicinity unless the making and continuing of the same cannot be prevented and
is necessary for the protection or preservation of property or of the health,
safety, life and limb of some person.
      2.    Loud Noises From Radios, Etc.: No person owning, occupying or
having charge of any building or premises, or any part thereof, shall cause or
allow any loud, excessive or unusual noise in the operation or use of any
radio, television, phonograph, or other mechanical or electrical sound-making
or reproducing device, instrument or machine, which loud, excessive or unusual
noise shall disturb the comfort, quiet or repose of any person.
      3.    Amplifiers Restricted; Permit Required: No person shall use or
operate in any public place, or from any aircraft or in front of or outside of
any building, place or premises, or in or through any window, doorway or
opening of such building, place or premises, abutting on or adjacent to any
public street or place, any device, apparatus or instrument for the
amplification of the human voice or any sound or noise or other sound-making or
sound- reproducing device, without a permit granted by the City Council.
      4.    Animals And Birds: No person owning, operating, having charge of or
occupying any building or premises shall keep any animal, or bird which
disturbs the peace and quiet of any person in the vicinity thereof.
      5.    Advertising: No person shall make, for the purpose of advertising
or announcing their vocation or presence or in connection with the buying and
selling of any goods, wares, merchandise, services or anything whatsoever, or
with the carrying on of any trade, occupation, vocation or profit-making
activity, an immoderate or excessive use of the voice, or of any bell, gong,
horn, instrument, article or device. The violation of this subsection in
connection with any license or permit shall be cause for the revocation
thereof.
      6.    Machinery: No person shall operate any noise-creating blower or
power fan, internal combustion engine, air compressor or steam engine, the
operation of which causes noises due to the explosion of operating gasses or
fluids unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled and such engine or
compressor is equipped with a muffler device sufficient to deaden such noises
so that the same shall not cause annoyance to the public or disturb the rest
and quiet of persons residing or occupying property near enough thereto to be
annoyed thereby.
      7.    Other Businesses: No person shall carry on any business or
occupation in such manner as to create unnecessary noise. (Ord. 190, 5-11-1992)
   C.    Penalty: Any person violating any provisions of this Section shall be
subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 190, 5-11-1992; 1996 Code)
5-2-3: BARBED WIRE FENCES:
   A.    Barbed Wire Fences Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to
maintain, construct, repair or improve any barbed wire fence within the platted
portion of the City, whether for public or private purposes. The Chief of
Police or Street Superintendent of the City shall have the power to remove such
fences which may be existing or which may hereafter be constructed, repaired or
improved upon giving the owner thereof seven (7) days' notice either by
personal service or by publication in one issue of a legal newspaper in the
County of Clay, and the fence and material so removed shall remain the property
of the owner thereof the same as if the property had not been removed. (Ord.
25, 6-25-1889)
   B.    Violation, Penalty: Notice of removal shall be signed by the Mayor and
the City Administrator. Violation of this Chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor
and any person so violating the same shall be subject to penalty as provided in
Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 25, 6-25-1889; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
MINORS
SECTION:
5-3-1: Curfew
5-3-1: CURFEW:
   A.    Age And Hour Restrictions; Exceptions:
      1.    No person under the age of sixteen (16) years, except as provided
in subsection A2, shall be on any public street or alley or in any park or
other public grounds or building, place of amusement, entertainment, or
refreshment, vacant lot or any other unsupervised place between the hours of
eleven o'clock (11:00) P.M. and five o'clock (5:00) A.M. of the following day.
      2.    The restrictions of subsection A1 do not apply when the minor:
         a.    Is accompanied by the minor's parents, guardian, or other person
having the minor's lawful care, custody or control;
         b.    Is returning home by a direct route from and within thirty (30)
minutes after, a school activity or an activity of a religious or other
voluntary association when prior notice of the activity and its place and
probable time of termination has been given to the Police Department by an
adult person authorized by the school or the religious or voluntary association
to do so;
         c.    Is carrying a certified card of employment and is on his way to
or from his place of employment; or
         d.    Is on an emergency errand or other legitimate business directed
by the minor's parent, guardian or other adult having the lawful custody of the
minor.
   B.    Responsibility Of Parent, Guardian Or Custodian: No parent, guardian
or other adult having custody and control of a minor under sixteen (16) years
of age shall knowingly permit the minor to violate the provisions of subsection
A.
   C.    Responsibility Of Other Persons: Whenever the owner or person in
charge or control of any place of amusement, entertainment, refreshment or
other place of business shall find any person under the age of sixteen (16)
years in such place in violation of subsection A, he shall immediately order
such person to leave, and if such person refuses to leave, the owner or person
in charge shall immediately inform the Police Department of the violation.
   D.    Penalty:
      1.    Prosecution Of Minors: After investigation, if responsible City
authorities determine that court action should be initiated against the minor,
the minor shall be dealt with in accordance with juvenile court law procedures.
      2.    Convictions: Any person who is convicted of a violation of this
Section, including a minor who may have had his case referred for prosecution
as an adult under Minnesota Statutes, section 260.096, shall be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor and shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 169, 12-7-1981; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
ANIMAL CONTROL
SECTION:
5-4-1: Definitions
5-4-2: Licensing Requirements
5-4-3: Restraint Of Domestic Animals
5-4-4: Confinement Of Certain Animals
5-4-5: Animals Creating Nuisances
5-4-5-1: Cleaning Up Litter
5-4-6: Impounding Animals
5-4-7: Rabies Vaccination Required
5-4-8: Dogs And Cats In Heat
5-4-9: Biting Animals To Be Quarantined
5-4-10: Destruction Of Property By Domestic Animals
5-4-11: Certain Animals Regulated
5-4-12: Establishment Of Pound
5-4-13: Muzzling Proclamation
5-4-14: Kennels
5-4-15: Abandonment Prohibited
5-4-16: Proceedings For Destruction Of Certain Domestic Animals
5-4-17: Dangerous Animal Regulations
5-4-18: Keeping Of Wild Or Exotic Animals Prohibited
5-4-19: State Statutes Adopted By Reference
5-4-20: Enforcement
5-4-21: Penalty
5-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
As used in this chapter, the terms shall mean the following:
AT LARGE: A dog, cat, or animal shall be termed at large when such dog, cat, or
animal is not under "restraint", as defined herein.
DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal that:
   A.    Has known propensity, tendency or disposition to attack unprovoked,
causing injury, or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or domestic
animals; or
   B.    When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property; or
   C.    When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including, but not
limited to, a person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or public or
private property, other than the animal owner's property, in an apparent
attitude of attack.
DOMESTIC ANIMAL: Includes, but is not limited to, dogs, cats, rabbits, ferrets,
mice, hamsters, nonprotected birds commonly kept as pets, nonpoisonous and
nonconstrictor snakes, nonpoisonous reptiles (excluding those defined as exotic
animals), or other animals commonly found for sale as pets and not otherwise
excluded by this chapter.
HARBORER: Any person who has custody of any domestic animal or permits the
domestic animal to be kept on or stay on or about the harborer's premises.
KENNEL: Any place four (4) or more dogs or four (4) or more cats over six (6)
months of age are kept in a single location for breeding, hunting, show,
training, field trials, exhibition purposes, or as personal pets. (An annual
kennel license is required for any place where 4 or more dogs and/or cats over
6 months of age are kept.)
LIVESTOCK: Domesticated animals or birds that may be kept or raised in pens,
houses, pastures, or on farms as part of an agricultural or farming operation,
whether for commerce or private use.
OWNER: Any person, group of persons, or legal entity owning, keeping or
harboring a domestic animal(s).
POLICE: The police officers of the city, or any person, firm, or agency hired
or engaged by the city to assist the police in the performance of their duties.
POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS ANIMAL: Any animal that:
   A.    When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
   B.    When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a person on
a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private property,
other than the dog owner's property, in an apparent attitude of attack; or
   C.    Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack unprovoked,
causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or domestic
animals.
RESTRAINT: A dog, cat, or animal is under restraint if it is controlled by a
leash not exceeding eight feet (8') in length; or if it is within the
boundaries of the owner's or harborer's premises. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-2: LICENSING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    License Required: No person shall own, keep, or harbor a dog or cat
unless such dog or cat is licensed as provided herein.
   B.    Application: Written application shall be made in writing at the
office of the city administrator. The application shall state the name and
address of the owner of the dog or cat, the name, breed, age, sex and color of
the dog or cat, and be accompanied by a certificate of vaccination from a
qualified source certifying that the dog or cat has been vaccinated against
rabies, or has received a booster shot therefor, within the twelve (12) month
period immediately preceding the application. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
   C.    Fee: The annual license and duplicate license fees shall be in the
amounts shown in section
3-8-1 of this code. In the event a tag is lost, a duplicate may be issued by
the city administrator upon payment of the prescribed fee. (Ord. 243, 4-23-
2007; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
   D.    Term Of License: All dog or cat licenses shall be issued for one year
beginning January 1 of each year commencing on January 1, 2000. The cost of
licenses obtained any time after January 1, 2000, shall be prorated on a
monthly basis for the remainder of the calendar year. Applications for license
may be made thirty (30) days prior to January 1 of each year.
   E.    Dogs And Cats Not Requiring Licensing: No license shall be required of
dogs and cats less than two (2) months of age.
   F.    Tag And Collar: All dogs and cats shall be harnessed or collared. The
city administrator shall, upon issuance of a license, provide the applicant
with a metallic tag which shall be dated and numbered, and which shall be
securely fastened to the animal's collar or harness at all times.
   G.    Rabies Vaccination: Every application for a license shall be
accompanied by a certificate from a qualified veterinarian showing that the dog
or cat has been vaccinated for rabies within one year prior to the expiration
of the license applied for.
   H.    Revocation Of License Or Permit: The failure of any owner to comply
with the requirements of this chapter shall constitute grounds for the
immediate revocation of any license or permit issued under this chapter.
   I.    Kennel License: Any property which houses four (4) or more dogs or
cats over six (6) months of age must carry a kennel license. This annual
license may require as a condition for a kennel license, an environmental plan,
fencing, inspection of the premises, and other restrictions that the city deems
necessary to ensure the health and welfare of the community and the pets
contained at the kennel. Fees will be set by council action. The maximum number
of dogs and/or cats allowed by a kennel license shall not exceed six (6). (Ord.
243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-3: RESTRAINT OF DOMESTIC ANIMALS:
No domestic animals shall be permitted to be at large in the city. All domestic
animals shall be under restraint at all times. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-4: CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN ANIMALS:
The owner or harborer shall confine within a building or secure enclosure any
fierce, or dangerous dog or cat, and not permit such animal out of such
confinement unless and until it is securely muzzled and in control of a
competent person. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-5: ANIMALS CREATING NUISANCES:
No person shall keep or harbor an animal which barks, howls or meows, or
otherwise constitutes a nuisance as defined by Minnesota statutes, section
561.01 et seq. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-5-1: CLEANING UP LITTER:
The owner of any dog or cat or person having the custody or control of any dog
or cat shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces of the dog or cat and
disposing of such feces in a sanitary manner whether on their own property, on
the property of others or on public property. Any person violating this section
shall be punishable by a civil penalty of ten dollars ($10.00) or five (5)
hours of public service cleaning public lands of animal (dog or cat) fecal
wastes. Any person who is found guilty of subsequent violations of this section
shall be subject to a civil penalty of at least twenty five dollars ($25.00)
but not more than fifty dollars ($50.00). (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-6: IMPOUNDING ANIMALS:
   A.    Impoundment Authorized: The police, or any other duly appointed
person, may take and impound any animal which is not being kept, confined or
restrained in a manner consistent with the requirements of this regulation.
Such police or person may enter upon private premises where it appears that
there is reasonable cause to believe that an animal is not being kept, confined
or restrained as herein required.
   B.    Notice To Owner: Immediately upon the impounding of an animal wearing
a current license tag, the police shall make every reasonable effort to notify
the owner or harborer of such impoundment, and of the conditions whereby the
owner or harborer may regain custody of the animal. Verbal notice shall be
immediately confirmed in writing by the police. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
   C.    Reclaiming Impounded Animals: Any animal impounded hereunder may be
reclaimed by the owner or harborer of same within five (5) days after receiving
notice of such impoundment, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays,
upon payment to the city administrator of an impounding fee, boarding fee,
disposal fee, as shown in section
3-8-1 of this code and the actual cost of veterinary care given. If the animal
being reclaimed has no license, and a license is required, a license shall be
issued, and the fee for same paid prior to the release from impoundment. (Ord.
243, 4-23-2007; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
   D.    Domestic Animals Which Cannot Be Impounded: If an animal is rabid, or
otherwise diseased, vicious or dangerous, and cannot be impounded after a
reasonable effort or without serious risk to the impounder or others, such
animal may be immediately killed.
   E.    Selling Of Impounded Animals: If an impounded animal has not been
reclaimed within the time provided herein, or if the owner cannot be located,
then within six (6) days after impoundment, the person in charge of the pound
shall give three (3) days' notice of the time and place where said animal will
be sold by posting notices in the office of the person in charge of the pound,
the office of the city administrator and in a conspicuous place at the pound.
Should the person in charge of the pound be unable to sell said animal, for
want of bidders or otherwise, the procedure for destruction shall be followed 1
. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
 
Notes
1 1. See section
  5-4-16 of this chapter for destruction procedures.
5-4-7: RABIES VACCINATION REQUIRED:
It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess, or harbor a dog or cat, or
any domestic animal that is generally thought to be capable of contracting
rabies, within the city, if it has not had a vaccination for rabies within the
time required under standard veterinary practices. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-8: DOGS AND CATS IN HEAT:
Any female dog or cat in heat shall be kept confined indoors, or impounded for
the duration of her season (estrus cycle) in a commercial dog kennel, the cost
of which shall be borne by the owner. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-9: BITING ANIMALS TO BE QUARANTINED:
Whenever any dog or animal has bitten a person, the owner or custodian of such
dog or animal, having been so notified, either orally or in writing, shall
immediately quarantine said dog or animal at the owner's home or other suitable
place of confinement, as directed by the responsible officer of the city for a
period of fourteen (14) days after the occurrence. During the quarantine
period, the animal shall be securely confined in a building or in a yard
enclosed by a fence so constructed that the animal cannot escape or otherwise
leave said enclosure, and which will not permit other animals or persons to
enter, for the purpose of preventing the animal from biting or otherwise coming
in contact with persons or other animals. Upon a reasonable suspicion that the
dog or animal may be rabid, the dog or animal shall be subjected to the
necessary tests by a doctor of veterinary medicine for the purpose of
determining if it is infected with rabies. The confinement, testing, treatment,
in addition to all other expenses incurred as a result of a dog or animal
biting a person, shall be the expense of the owner of said animal. (Ord. 243,
4-23-2007)
5-4-10: DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY BY DOMESTIC ANIMALS:
It shall be the obligation and responsibility of the owner of any domestic
animal to prevent such animal from molesting, defiling, or destroying any
property, public or private. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-11: CERTAIN ANIMALS REGULATED:
It shall be unlawful to keep or harbor in the city any of the following
animals, or animals of allied genera: horses, cows, sheep, goats, swine,
chickens, animals of the genus reptilia or allied genera which are venomous or
of the constrictor type, birds or other animals the keeping in captivity of
which is prohibited by law. For land zoned "transitional", or land directly
adjacent to the Hawley Rodeo Grounds, the city council may consider granting a
written variance for horses and/or cattle. This variance must document specific
animal type, specific animal count, fencing, insurance requirements, length of
permit, etc., requirements as they deem fit. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-12: ESTABLISHMENT OF POUND:
   A.    Poundmaster: The city pound shall be such place as the city council
may determine from time to time. The city council may hire a person to act as
poundmaster, and he shall attend to the maintenance of such pound, presenting a
proper claim to the city council monthly for the necessary expenses which he
may incur in so doing, which claim shall be audited by the city administrator
and if allowed by the city council, paid by the city administrator.
   B.    Interference With Officers: It shall be unlawful for any person to
break open the pound or attempt to do so, or to take or let out any dogs or
cats therefrom, or to take or attempt to take from any officer any dog or cat
taken up by him in compliance with this chapter or in any manner to interfere
with or hinder such officer in the discharge of his duties under this chapter.
(Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-13: MUZZLING PROCLAMATION:
Whenever the prevalence of rabies renders such action necessary to protect the
public health and safety, the city council shall issue a proclamation ordering
every person owning or keeping a dog or cat to muzzle it securely so that it
cannot bite. No person shall violate such proclamation and any dog or cat
running at large during the time fixed in the proclamation shall be killed by
the police without notice to the owner. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-14: KENNELS:
No person shall maintain in the city a kennel where dogs or cats are kept
without securing a license from the city council. The license fee shall be set
by the council. The kennel fee shall be in addition to the license fee
prescribed in the preceding sections for each dog or cat kept in such kennel.
The city may require as a condition for a kennel license an environmental plan,
fencing, inspection of the premises, and other restrictions that the city deems
necessary to ensure the health and welfare of the community and the pets
contained at the kennel. The maximum number of dogs or cats allowed by a kennel
license shall not exceed six (6) over six (6) months of age. (Ord. 243, 4-23-
2007)
5-4-15: ABANDONMENT PROHIBITED:
No person shall abandon any dog or other animal within the city. (Ord. 243, 4-
23-2007)
5-4-16: PROCEEDINGS FOR DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN DOMESTIC ANIMALS:
   A.    Upon sworn complaint to a court of proper jurisdiction that any one of
the following facts exist:
      1.    Any domestic animal at any time has destroyed property or
habitually trespasses in a damaging manner on property of persons other than
the owner;
      2.    Any domestic animal at any time has attacked or bitten a person
outside the owner's or custodian's premises;
      3.    Any domestic animal is vicious or shows vicious habits or molests
pedestrians or interferes with vehicles on the public streets or highways;
      4.    Any domestic animal is a public nuisance as hereinbefore defined;
or
      5.    Any domestic animal is running at large in violation of this
chapter;
the presiding officer of said court shall issue a summons directed to the owner
of said domestic animal commanding to appear before said court to show cause
why said domestic animal should not be seized and killed by any police officer
or the poundmaster, or otherwise disposed of in the manner authorized in this
chapter. Such summons shall be returnable not less than two (2) nor more than
six (6) days from the date thereof and shall be served at least two (2) days
before the time of appearance mentioned therein. Upon such hearing and finding
the facts true as complained of, the court may either order the domestic animal
killed or order the owner or custodian to remove it from the city, or may order
the owner or custodian to keep it confined to a designated place. If the owner
or custodian violates such order, any police officer or the poundmaster may
impound and summarily kill any domestic animal described in such order. The
provisions of this section are in addition to and supplemental to other
provisions of this chapter.
   B.    Costs of the proceeding specified by this section shall be assessed
against the owner or custodian of the domestic animal, if the facts in the
complaint are found to be true or to the complainant if the facts are found to
be untrue. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-17: DANGEROUS ANIMAL REGULATIONS:
   A.    Classification Of Dangerous Animal: If the Hawley city clerk/treasurer
and/or the chief of police has reasonable cause to believe a particular animal
is dangerous, the clerk/treasurer and/or the chief of police may find, declare
and classify said animal as dangerous.
   B.    Notice Of Dangerous Animal Classification: Within three (3) calendar
days of classifying an animal as dangerous, the city of Hawley shall notify the
animal's owner in writing of said classification. The notice shall identify the
requirements and conditions for maintaining a dangerous animal as set forth in
this chapter. If the owner cannot be located, the animal may be immediately
impounded and notice shall be posted on the owner's property or sent by
certified mail, return receipt requested, to the owner's last known address.
   C.    Hearing On Dangerous Animal Classification:
      1.    The owner of an animal classified as dangerous shall have the right
to file, within five (5) regular business days after being sent notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, a written request for a hearing
before the city council of the city of Hawley to contest the dangerous animal
classification. The hearing shall be held within seven (7) calendar days after
the city of Hawley receives the owner's written request. The request for
hearing shall be sent to the Hawley city clerk/treasurer.
      2.    The hearing shall be informal and strict rules of evidence shall
not apply. The owner may be represented by counsel, present oral and written
evidence, and cross examine witnesses.
      3.    The city council shall issue its decision within three (3) calendar
days after the close of the hearing and shall notify the owner in writing of
the decision.
      4.    If the city council upholds the dangerous animal classification,
the owner shall comply with all of the requirements and conditions for
maintaining a dangerous animal as set forth in this chapter.
      5.    The decision of the city council is final.
   D.    Requirements For Keeping A Dangerous Animal: The owner of a dangerous
animal shall be subject to the following requirements:
      1.    Confinement: All dangerous cats must be confined indoors. All
dangerous dogs shall be securely confined indoors or in an enclosed and locked
pen or structure upon the premises of the owner. The pen or structure must have
minimum dimensions of five feet by ten feet (5' x 10') and must have secured
sides and a secured top attached to the sides. If no bottom is secured to the
sides, all sides must be embedded into the ground no less than two feet (2').
All pens or structures must be adequately lighted and kept clean and sanitary.
The enclosure must also protect the dog from the elements.
      2.    Prohibited Confinement: No dangerous dog shall be kept on a porch
or any part of a building which would allow the dog to exit on its own
volition. No dangerous dog may be kept in a building with open windows or
screened windows which are the only obstacles preventing said dog from exiting.
No dangerous dog may be kept in any portion of any multiple dwelling or
housing.
      3.    Leash And Muzzle: The owner of a dangerous dog shall not allow the
dog to go outside its kennel, pen, or structure unless the dog is muzzled,
restrained by a chain or leash not more than four feet (4') in length, and
under the physical control of a responsible and competent person. The muzzle
must not cause injury to the dog or interfere with its vision or respiration,
but must prevent the dog from biting any human or animal.
      4.    Signs: The owner of a dangerous dog shall display in a prominent
place on the owner's premises a clearly visible warning sign indicating that
there is a dangerous dog on the premises. The sign must be readable from the
public street, highway, or thoroughfare. The owner shall also display a sign
with a symbol warning children of the presence of a dangerous dog. Similar
signs shall be posted on the dog's kennel, pen, or enclosed structure.
      5.    Sales Or Purchases: No person shall possess with the intent to
sell, offer for sale, breed, transfer ownership of or buy any dangerous animal.
      6.    Insurance: The owner of a dangerous animal shall provide proof to
the Hawley city clerk/treasurer that the owner has procured public liability
insurance of at least fifty thousand dollars ($50,000.00), insuring the owner
for any damage or personal injury which may be caused by his or her dangerous
animal within ten (10) calendar days after classification or hearing
determining said animal is dangerous.
   E.    Impoundment And Destruction: The Hawley city council may order the
impoundment and destruction of an animal where:
      1.    The animal has attacked, bitten or injured a human or domestic
animal;
      2.    The animal is a "dangerous animal" as defined in this chapter and
the owner has failed to comply with the requirements and conditions for keeping
a dangerous animal as defined in this chapter; or
      3.    The animal possesses a threat of serious harm to the public health
and safety.
   F.    Notice Of Impoundment: Within three (3) calendar days of an
impoundment, the city of Hawley shall notify the dangerous animal's owner in
writing of the impoundment.
   G.    Hearing On Impoundment/Destruction:
      1.    The owner of an impounded dangerous animal shall have the right to
file, within five (5) regular business days, after being sent notice by
certified mail, return receipt requested, a written request for a hearing
before the city council to contest the impoundment. The request for hearing
shall be sent to the city of Hawley clerk/treasurer.
      2.    The hearing shall be informal and strict rules of evidence shall
not apply. The owner may be represented by counsel, present oral and written
evidence, and cross examine witnesses.
      3.    The city council shall issue its decision within three (3) calendar
days after the close of the hearing and shall notify the owner in writing of
the decision.
      4.    After considering all relevant evidence, the city council may order
the destruction of the impounded dangerous animal, or may release the dangerous
animal to its owner conditional on the owner complying with the requirements
for keeping a dangerous animal as set forth in this chapter, or complying with
any other requirements necessary to protect the public health or safety.
      5.    If the owner of an impounded dangerous animal fails to appear at
the hearing or fails to request a hearing, the animal shall be, upon order of
the city council, either destroyed, or in the alternative, ownership
transferred to a specific responsible person.
   H.    Exemptions:
      1.    This chapter shall not apply to dogs used by a police department or
law enforcement agency.
      2.    No animal may be declared dangerous for injury or damage sustained
by a person who was committing a wilful trespass or other tort upon the
premises of the animal's owner.
      3.    No animal may be declared dangerous for injury or damage sustained
by a person who was teasing, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the animal.
   I.    Change Of Status: The owner of a dangerous animal, after being
informed, shall notify the city of Hawley police department within one hour if
either his or her dangerous animal is unconfined and running at large or has
attacked a human or domestic animal.
   J.    Dogfighting: No person shall possess, harbor, or maintain care or
custody of any dog for the purpose of dogfighting, nor shall any person train,
torment, badger, bait, or use any dog for the reason of causing or encouraging
the dog to attack human beings or domestic animals. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-18: KEEPING OF WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMALS PROHIBITED:
   A.    Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them:
ANIMAL: Shall include any live vertebrate creature, domestic or wild, not to
include birds.
PET: Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
WILD OR EXOTIC ANIMAL: Any live monkey (nonhuman primate), raccoon, skunk,
wolf, squirrel, fox, leopard, panther, tiger, lion, lynx or any other warm
blooded animal, poisonous snake or tarantula which can normally be found in the
wild state or any other member of crocodilian, including, but limited to,
alligators, crocodiles, caimans, and gavials, and including such other animals
that cannot be effectively inoculated for rabies. (Ferrets, nonpoisonous
snakes, rabbits, and laboratory rats which have been bred in captivity and
which have never known the wild shall be excluded from this definition.)
   B.    Display Or Exhibition: No person shall keep or permit to be kept on
his premises any wild or exotic animal for display or for exhibition purposes,
whether gratuitously or for a fee. This subsection shall not be construed to
apply to zoological parks, performing animal exhibitions, circuses, rodeos,
schools or colleges, or veterinary clinics, which are properly licensed by the
federal government or state.
   C.    Keeping As A Pet: No person shall keep or permit to be kept any wild
or exotic animal as a pet.
   D.    No Sales: No sales of any wild or exotic animal shall be allowed
within the city of Hawley.
   E.    Notice Of Keeping: Upon the written complaint of any person that a
person owns or is keeping or harboring a wild or exotic animal in violation of
this section in the city, the police department or their authorized designee
shall forthwith cause the matter to be investigated; and if after investigation
the facts indicate that such person named in the complaint is in fact the owner
or is keeping or harboring any such animal in the city, they shall forthwith
send written notice to the person requiring such person to safely remove the
animal from the city within five (5) days of the date of the notice. Notice as
herein provided shall not be required where such animal has previously caused
serious physical harm or death to any person or has escaped and is at large, in
which case the police department shall cause the animal to be immediately
seized and impounded, according to the provisions of this chapter, or killed if
seizure and impoundment are not possible without risk or serious physical harm
or death to any person.
   F.    Seizure And Impounding: The police department or their authorized
designee shall forthwith cause to be seized and impounded any wild or exotic
animal, where the person owning, keeping or harboring such animal has failed to
comply with the notice sent pursuant to this section. Upon a seizure and
impoundment, the animal shall be delivered to a place of confinement, which may
be with any organization which is authorized by law to accept, own, keep or
harbor such animals.
If, during the course of seizing and impounding any such animal, the animal
poses a risk of serious physical harm or death to any person, such person or
persons authorized by the police department may render the animal immobile by
means of tranquilizers or other safe drugs; or if that is not safely possible,
then the animal may be killed.
   G.    Delayed Enforcement: Any person who has a wild or exotic animal in
possession at the time of the effective date hereof in contravention of this
section, shall have thirty (30) days to dispose of the animal(s) by removal of
the animal(s) from the city or by giving or selling the animal(s) to a
zoological park or other entity exempt from this section. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-19: STATE STATUTES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
The provisions of Minnesota statutes, sections 35.67, 35.68, 35.69, 343.40,
347.01, 347.02, 347.03, 347.04, 347.05, 347.06, 347.07, 347.17, 347.18, and
347.22 are hereby adopted and incorporated herein by reference and made a part
of this chapter as if fully set forth herein. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-20: ENFORCEMENT:
The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the police department, or
the Minnesota department of natural resources, the animal damage control
department of the United States department of agriculture, or any other person
duly designated by the Hawley chief of police. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
5-4-21: PENALTY:
Whoever violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and may be punished by a fine of not more than one thousand dollars ($1,000.00)
or ninety (90) days in jail or both. (Ord. 243, 4-23-2007)
TITLE 6
MOTOR VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL TRAFFIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
6-1-1: State Highway Code
6-1-2: Speed Regulations
6-1-3: Stop Signs
6-1-4: Safety Zones
6-1-5: Truck Restrictions
6-1-6: Seasonal Weight Restrictions
6-1-7: Exhibition Driving
6-1-8: Penalty
6-1-9: Excessive Vehicle Noise
6-1-1: STATE HIGHWAY CODE:
   A.    State Highway Code Adopted By Reference:
      1.    Code Adopted: The regulatory provisions of the Minnesota statutes
chapter 169, as amended, are hereby adopted as the traffic ordinance regulating
the use of the highways, streets and alleys within the city, and are hereby
incorporated in and made part of this title as completely as if set out in full
herein.
      2.    Penalty: Any violation of the statutes adopted by reference in
subsection A1 of this section is a violation of this title when it occurs
within the city. Any person violating any provisions of this title shall be
guilty of such offense and shall be punished by penalty as is prescribed by
such statutes. (Ord. 134, 7-24-1972)
   B.    Definitions: Any term used in this title and defined in Minnesota
statutes section 169.01 has the meaning given it by that section.
   C.    Police Duties: The designated law enforcement agency of the city shall
enforce the provisions of this title and the state traffic laws. Police
officers are authorized to direct all traffic within the city, either in person
or by means of visible or audible signal, in conformity with this title and the
state traffic laws. During a fire or other emergency or to expedite traffic or
safeguard pedestrians, police officers may direct traffic as conditions
require, notwithstanding the provisions of this title and the state traffic
laws. Officers of the fire department may direct or assist the police in
directing traffic at the scene of a fire or in the immediate vicinity. (Ord.
158, 9-10-1979)
6-1-2: SPEED REGULATIONS:
   A.    Basic Rule: Any person driving a vehicle on a street or highway shall
drive the same at a speed not greater than is reasonable and proper, having due
regard to the traffic, the surface and width of the highway, and of any other
conditions then existing.
   B.    Speeding: Operating a vehicle at speeds exceeding those hereinafter
specified shall be prima facie evidence that the operator of said vehicle is
driving the same at a speed greater than is reasonable and proper as defined in
subsection A of this section.
   C.    Speed Limits:
      1.    Fifteen (15) miles per hour:
         a.    When approaching within fifty feet (50') of a grade crossing of
any steam, electric or street railway when the driver's view is obstructed. A
driver's view shall be deemed to be obstructed when at any time during the last
two hundred feet (200') of his approach to such crossing he does not have a
clear and uninterrupted view of such railway crossing and of any traffic on
such railway for a distance of four hundred feet (400') in each direction from
such crossing.
         b.    When passing a school during school recess or while children are
going to or leaving school during opening or closing hours.
         c.    When approaching within fifty feet (50') and in crossing an
intersection of highways when the driver's view is obstructed. A driver's view
shall be deemed to be obstructed when at any time during the last fifty feet
(50') of his approach to such intersection, he does not have a clear and
unobstructed view of such intersection and of the traffic upon all of the
highways entering such intersection for a distance of two hundred feet (200')
from such intersection.
         d.    Going around curves or along a grade upon a highway when the
driver's view is obstructed within a distance of one hundred feet (100') along
such highway in the direction in which he is proceeding.
         e.    On all other highways where the same pass through the closely
built-up portion of the City or where the traffic is congested.
      2.    Twenty (20) miles per hour:
         a.    On any highway where the same passes through the closely built-
up portion of the City or where the traffic is congested, when traffic on such
highway is controlled at intersections by traffic officers or traffic-control
devices.
         b.    On any highway where the same passes through the residence
portion of the City.
      3.    Thirty (30) miles per hour: Under all other conditions.
   D.    Penalty: Any person violating any provision of this Section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 79, 6-15-1937; 1996 Code)
6-1-3: STOP SIGNS:
   A.    Definition: A "Stop" sign is a sign placed at street and highway
intersections by authority of the City Council, the Board of County
Commissioners or the State Commissioner of Transportation with the word "Stop"
printed or stamped thereon, indicating that all persons approaching such
streets or highways shall stop before crossing or entering thereon in any
vehicle.
   B.    Sign Placement: The Street Superintendent and the Street Committee of
the City Council are hereby authorized to place such stop signs at all
intersections where, in the opinion of the Street Superintendent or of the
Street Committee, the placing of such sign is desirable and necessary.
   C.    Stopping Where Designated: All persons approaching intersections of
any streets or highways where stop signs have been placed shall come to a
complete stop before crossing such intersection, or entering upon any street so
marked and designated.
   D.    Penalty: Any person violating any provision hereof shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 79, 6-15-1937; 1996 Code)
6-1-4: SAFETY ZONES:
To assist in the direction and control of traffic, the City Council may, by
resolution, designate any street or portion of street as a through highway or
one-way street. It may also establish safety zones, lanes of traffic and stop
intersections, and may order the Street Superintendent to install stop signs,
yield signs, warning signs, signals, pavement markings or other devices. (Ord.
158, 9-10-1979; 1996 Code)
6-1-5: TRUCK RESTRICTIONS:
The City Council by resolution may designate streets on which travel by
commercial vehicles in excess of ten thousand (10,000) pounds gross weight is
prohibited. The Street Superintendent shall erect appropriate signs on such
streets. No person shall operate a commercial vehicle on such posted streets in
violation of the restriction stated. (Ord. 158, 9-10-1979)
6-1-6: SEASONAL WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS:
The Street Superintendent may prohibit the operation of vehicles upon any
street under his jurisdiction or impose weight restrictions on vehicles to be
operated on such street whenever the street, by reason of deterioration, rain,
snow or other climatic conditions, will be seriously damaged or destroyed
unless the use of vehicles on the street is prohibited or the permissible
weights thereof reduced. He shall erect and maintain signs plainly indicating
the prohibition or restriction at each end of that portion of the street
affected. No person shall operate a vehicle on a posted street in violation of
the prohibition or restriction. (Ord. 158, 9-10-1979)
6-1-7: EXHIBITION DRIVING:
No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the City in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel, or in a manner simulating a race. Unreasonable squealing or screeching
sounds emitted by tires, or the unreasonable throwing of sand or gravel by the
tires is prima facie evidence of a violation of this Section. (Ord. 158, 9-10-
1979)
6-1-8: PENALTY:
   A.    Penalty: Unless otherwise provided, any person who shall be convicted
of a violation of this chapter shall, upon such conviction, be subject to
penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that said violation is allowed to continue shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   B.    Relief: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this
section, the city may seek from the appropriate courts of Clay County,
Minnesota, all injunctive relief allowable under the laws of the state to
correct violations, to prohibit their continuance, and to obtain such other and
further relief as the city may deem necessary for the safety and protection of
its citizens. (Ord. 158, 9-10-1979; amd. 1996 Code)
6-1-9: EXCESSIVE VEHICLE NOISE:
   A.    Definitions: For the purposes of this section, the following phrases
are defined as follows:
    ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE: 1. A distinct and loudly audible noise that
unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort and repose of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property's
value,
      2.    Noise in excess of that permitted by Minnesota statutes section
169.69, as it may be amended from time to time, which requires every motor
vehicle to be equipped with a muffler in good working order, or
      3.    Noise in excess of that permitted by Minnesota statutes section
169.693 and Minnesota rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1050, as this statute
and these rules may be amended from time to time, which establish motor vehicle
noise standards.
   ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE: A dynamic brake, jake brake, jacobs brake, C-brake,
paccar brake, transmission brake or other similar engine retarding brake system
which alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently releases
that compression.
   B.    Exhaust: It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust
or permit the discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle except through a
muffler that effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and complies with
all applicable state laws and regulations.
   C.    Brake: It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to use an
engine retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot or alley
within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise from the engine except
in an emergency.
   D.    Minnesota Statutes: Minnesota statutes sections 169.69 and 169.693
(motor vehicle noise limits) and Minnesota rules parts 7030.1000 through
7030.1050 as these statutes and rules may be amended from time to time, are
hereby adopted by reference. It is the intention of the city council that all
future amendments to any statutes and rules referenced or adopted by reference
in this section are also referenced or adopted by reference as if they had been
in existence at the time this section was adopted.
   E.    Signage: Signs stating "VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED" may be installed
at locations deemed appropriate by the city council to advise motorists of the
prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign stating "VEHICLE
NOISE LAWS ENFORCED" shall be installed on a state highway without a permit
from the Minnesota department of transportation. The provisions of this section
are in full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
   F.    Misdemeanor: Any person, firm or corporation who violates any
provision of this section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Each time a person engages in the prohibited conduct shall be considered a
separate offense. (Ord. 275, 10-3-2016)
CHAPTER 2
PARKING REGULATIONS
SECTION:
6-2-1: No Parking Places
6-2-2: Residential Districts
6-2-3: Limited Parking
6-2-4: Vehicles Obstructing Traffic
6-2-5: Abandoned; Wrecked Vehicles
6-2-6: Semitrailers
6-2-7: Prima Facie Evidence
6-2-8: Penalty
6-2-9: Incorporation By Reference
6-2-10: Towing
6-2-1: NO PARKING PLACES:
No person shall park a vehicle in any of the following places anywhere in the
city:
   A.    Sidewalks: On a sidewalk.
   B.    Driveways: In front of a public or private driveway.
   C.    Intersections: Within an intersection.
   D.    Crosswalks: On or within twenty feet (20') of a crosswalk at any
intersection.
   E.    Fire Hydrants: Within ten feet (10') of a fire hydrant.
   F.    Painted Areas: Areas where the curb has been painted bright yellow.
   G.   Alleys: In any alley except for the temporary purpose of loading or
unloading.
   H.   Winter Parking and Snow Removal: No parking between the hours of two
o'clock (2:00) A.M. and six o'clock (6:00) A.M. on all city streets between
November 1 and April 1 of the following year, those dates inclusive.
   I.   No vehicle, unattended trailer, boat, RV or other wheeled device or
personal property shall in any case be parked upon, or located on, any street
in any one place, or upon any public parking lot or city owned property, for a
longer continuous period than forty eight (48) hours, with the exception of
construction related items to be used on the premises with an approved zoning
permit.
   J.   The Chief of Police or Public Works Director may direct that notices be
placed on vehicles parked on any particular street, or that entire streets may
be posted with a notice requiring all parked vehicles to be removed from all or
portions of such streets as needed from time to time for street cleaning,
street maintenance, snow removal, or other purposes as needed on a temporary
basis.
   K.   The Council may, by resolution, adopt other parking regulations that it
deems necessary to preserve the free flow of traffic, prevent accidents, or
provide for the public safety or welfare. (Ord. 158, 9-10-1979; amd. 1996 Code;
Ord. 253, 11-23-2009; Ord. 285, 11-23-2020)
6-2-2: RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS:
On street parking within the residential classification districts of the city
is hereby restricted to private passenger motor vehicles, recreational
vehicles, and other motor vehicles of pickup truck or van type vehicles; the
parking of semitractors, combined tractor trailers, farm trucks, dump trucks,
trailers and other motor vehicles of that type and nature is hereby expressly
prohibited unless such vehicles are parked on residential streets solely for
the purposes of delivering goods and services to or from a residential unit
thereat and only during the period of time that such services or goods are
being provided. (Ord. 158, 9-10-1979)
6-2-3: LIMITED PARKING:
   A.    Designations: The city council may, by resolution, designate such
certain areas where the right to park is limited during the hours specified.
The street superintendent shall mark by appropriate signs each zone so
designated. During the hours specified on the sign, no person shall park a
vehicle in a limited parking zone for a longer period than is so specified.
   B.    Business Districts: In the business district no vehicle shall be
parked in any one place for a longer continuous period than twelve (12) hours.
(Ord. 158, 9-10-1979)
6-2-4: VEHICLES OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC:
Any designated law enforcement agency of the city or the city administrator may
order the removal of any vehicle from a street or alley to a garage or other
place of impoundment when the vehicle is left unattended and constitutes an
obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal, street improvement, or street
maintenance operations, or when such vehicle is parked in violation of this
title. Such vehicle shall not be released until the fees for towing and storage
are paid in addition to any fine imposed for violation of this chapter. (Ord.
158, 9-10-1979)
6-2-5: ABANDONED; WRECKED VEHICLES:
   A.    Prohibited Acts: No person shall leave any partially dismantled,
nonoperating, wrecked or junked vehicle, or abandoned motor vehicle as defined
in Minnesota statutes section 168B.02, on any street or highway within the
city. No person in charge or control of any property within the city, whether
as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee, or otherwise, shall allow any partially
dismantled, nonoperating, wrecked, junked or abandoned motor vehicle as defined
in Minnesota statutes section 168B.02, to remain on such property longer than
forty eight (48) hours; and no person shall leave any such vehicle on any
property within the city for a longer time than forty eight (48) hours; except
that this chapter shall not apply with regard to a vehicle in an enclosed
building; a vehicle on the premises of a business enterprise operating in a
lawful place and manner, when necessary to the operation of such business
enterprise; or a vehicle in an appropriate storage place or depository
maintained in a lawful place and manner by the city. (Ord. 158, 9-10-1979; amd.
1996 Code)
   B.    Notice Of Taking Vehicle: The unit of government taking the abandoned
vehicle into custody shall give notice of the taking within ten (10) days. The
notice shall be given as provided by Minnesota statutes section 168B.07, as
amended.
   C.    Reclamation: The right to reclaim the vehicle shall be governed by
Minnesota statutes section 168B.07, as amended. (1996 Code)
6-2-6: SEMITRAILERS:
No person shall allow a semitrailer to stand or be parked unattached from a
tractor unit for any length of time on any street in the city except in an
emergency in order to change tractors. (Ord. 158, 9-10-1979)
6-2-7: PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE:
The presence of any motor vehicle on any street when standing or parked in
violation of this chapter is prima facie evidence that the registered owner of
the vehicle committed or authorized the commission of the violation. (Ord. 158,
9-10-1979)
6-2-8: PENALTY:
   A.    Penalty: Any person who shall be convicted of a violation of this
chapter shall, upon such conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in
section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that said violation is allowed to continue shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense.
   B.    Relief: Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this
section, the city may seek from the appropriate courts of Clay County,
Minnesota, all injunctive relief allowable under the laws of the state to
correct violations, to prohibit their continuance, and to obtain such other and
further relief as the city may deem necessary for the safety and protection of
its citizens. (Ord. 158, 9-10-1979; amd. 1996 Code)
   C.    Authority To Issue Parking Tickets: Any person, firm or corporation
violating any of the provisions of these parking regulations shall be guilty of
a petty misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be subject to fines, as set
forth by the city council, not to exceed the maximum amount for petty
misdemeanor violations.
      1.    Tickets shall consist of two (2) classes of offenses.
         a.    Ticket fines for parking violations shall be set by city
ordinance. See title 3, chapter 8 of this code, city fee schedule.
         b.    Tickets for handicap parking violations shall be in the amount
and as provided in Minnesota statutes 169.346, subd. 3.
   D.    Authority To Remove Vehicles: Any vehicle deemed a public safety
hazard by the officer, and/or a vehicle which is parked in violation of this
chapter, which has three (3) or more previous unpaid city of Hawley parking
violations, is declared to be a nuisance.
      1.    A police officer may summarily abate a nuisance vehicle by:
         a.    Impounding the vehicle, or
         b.    Removing said vehicle and storing the same in an appropriate
place, or
         c.    Directing or requesting another person to remove said vehicle
and store it in an appropriate place.
      2.    Before the registered owner of a vehicle shall be permitted to
recover said vehicle, the owner must pay outstanding tickets issued by the
Hawley police department to city hall during normal business hours and furnish
proof of ownership of said vehicle. In addition, if the vehicle is to be driven
from storage after being claimed, proof of current insurance on said vehicle,
current registration on said vehicle, and driver with a valid driver's license
must be provided in order to remove such vehicle. The registered owner shall
pay all applicable administrative, towing, and storage fees to the storage
facility storing said vehicle. It shall be unlawful for any person to reclaim
such vehicle without first paying all applicable fees.
      3.    The police officer directing the impounding of a vehicle shall
prepare a written report of the description of such vehicle and include a
written statement describing the circumstances involved. (Ord. 253, 11-23-2009)
6-2-9: INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE:
The city of Hawley hereby incorporates by reference the provisions relating to
parking contained in Minnesota statutes sections 169.34 through 169.35. To the
extent that this chapter conflicts with provisions of the aforementioned
Minnesota statutes this chapter shall control. (Ord. 253, 11-23-2009)
6-2-10: TOWING:
   A.   Four (4) Hour Waiting Period: In enforcing state and local parking and
traffic laws, a towing authority may not tow, or allow or require the towing
of, a motor vehicle from public property for a parking or traffic violation
until four (4) hours after issuance of the traffic ticket or citation, except
as provided in this section or as provided for an unauthorized vehicle in
Minnesota statutes section 168B.04.
   B.   Towing Authority: Towing of motor vehicles shall be governed by
Minnesota statutes section 168B.035, as may be amended from time to time.
      1.   Notwithstanding prohibitions to towing listed in Minnesota statutes
section 168B.035, subd. 3, motor vehicles shall be towed if:
         a.   The vehicle is parked in violation of winter parking and snow
removal regulations and snow has accumulated to a depth of two inches (2") or
more;
         b.   The vehicle is parked in a rush hour restricted parking area;
         c.   The vehicle is blocking a driveway, alley or fire hydrant;
         d.   The vehicle is parked in a bus lane, or at a bus stop, during
hours when parking is prohibited;
         e.   The vehicle is parked within thirty feet (30') of a stop sign and
visually blocking the stop sign;
         f.   The vehicle is parked in a disability transfer zone or disability
parking space without a disability parking certificate or disability license
plate;
         g.   The vehicle is parked in an area that has been posted for
temporary restricted parking at least twelve (12) hours in advance;
         h.   The vehicle is parked within the right of way of a controlled-
access highway or within the traveled portion of a public street when travel is
allowed there;
         i.   The vehicle is unlawfully parked in a zone that is restricted by
posted signs to use by fire, police, public safety, or emergency vehicles;
         j.   A law enforcement official has probable cause to believe that the
vehicle is stolen, or that the vehicle constitutes or contains evidence of a
crime and impoundment is reasonably necessary to obtain or preserve the
evidence;
         k.   The driver, operator or person in physical control of the vehicle
is taken into custody and the vehicle is impounded for safekeeping;
         l.   A law enforcement official has probable cause to believe that the
owner, operator or person in physical control of the vehicle has failed to
respond to five (5) or more citations for parking or traffic offenses;
         m.   The vehicle is unlawfully parked and prevents egress by a
lawfully parked vehicle;
         n.   The vehicle is parked, on a school day during prohibited hours,
within a school zone or public street where official signs prohibit parking;
         o.   The vehicle is a junk, abandoned, or unauthorized vehicle is
defined in Minnesota statutes section 168B.011; or
         p.   It is an unattended trailer, boat, RV, or any other wheeled
vehicle parked on city streets for a time period longer than forty eight (48)
hours.
      2.   Towing Order Required:
         a.   A towing authority may not tow a motor vehicle from public
property unless a peace officer or parking enforcement officer has prepared, in
addition to the parking citation, a written towing report describing the motor
vehicle and the reasons for towing.
         b.   Except in cases where an accident or traffic hazard to the
traveling public exists, the department employee shall insure that if the tower
requests to remove the vehicle by the owner arrives before the tower requested
by the department, the tower requested by the owner is given the opportunity to
actually conduct and complete all towing operations requested. (Ord. 285, 11-
23-2020)
CHAPTER 3
SNOWMOBILES, ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES, AND MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS
SECTION:
6-3-1: Definitions
6-3-2: Restrictions; City Use
6-3-3: Compliance With Traffic Regulations
6-3-4: Right Of Way
6-3-5: Rules Of Operation
6-3-6: Permits
6-3-7: Duties Of Police Chief
6-3-8: Restrictions; Highway Use
6-3-9: Securing Vehicle
6-3-10: Emergency Operation Of Vehicles
6-3-11: Penalty
6-3-1: DEFINITIONS:
For the purposes of this chapter, the terms defined herein shall have the
meaning ascribed to them.
ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE OR ATV: Refers to trail bikes, three-wheeled and four-
wheeled vehicles weighing less than nine hundred (900) pounds, mini-bikes, golf
carts, amphibious vehicles and similar devices other than snowmobiles used at
least partially for travel on natural terrain, but not special mobile equipment
defined in Minnesota statutes, section 168.011, subdivision 22.
MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS: A gas or electric three- or four-wheel vehicle commonly
used to transport golfers and their golfing equipment while playing the sport
of golf.
NATURAL TERRAIN: Areas other than roadways or driveways (private or public),
parking lots and other areas the surface of which has been intentionally
modified for motor vehicle operation thereon.
OPERATE: To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile, ATV or
motorized golf cart.
OPERATOR: Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile, ATV, or motorized golf cart.
OWNER: A person, other than a lienholder having the property in a title to
snowmobile, ATV, or motorized golf cart entitled to the use or possession
thereof.
PERSON: An individual, partnership, corporation, the state and its agencies and
subdivisions and any body of persons, whether incorporated or not.
SNOWMOBILE: A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice steered
by skis or runners. (Ord. 237, 7-26-2004)
6-3-2: RESTRICTIONS; CITY USE:
Except as herein specifically permitted and authorized, it is unlawful for any
person to operate a snowmobile, motorized golf cart or ATV not licensed as a
motor vehicle within the limits of the city:
   A.    Right Of Way: On the portion of any right of way or any public
highway, street, road, trail or alley used for motor vehicle travel, except
that a snowmobile, ATV or motorized golf cart may operate upon the most right
hand lane of a municipal street or alley and may, in passing or making a left
turn, operate on other lanes which are used for the vehicle traffic in the same
direction, for purposes of going to or returning from a nonhighway area of
permissible operation, by the most direct route.
   B.    Sidewalks: On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel.
   C.    Boulevards: On boulevards within any public right of way.
   D.    Private Property: On private property of another without specific
permission of the owner or person in control of said property.
   E.    Public Property: On any other public property except as may be
specifically permitted by city council resolution.
   F.    Speed Limit: At a speed greater than ten (10) miles per hour on any
public street.
   G.    Traveling Alongside A Vehicle: On any street, highway or alley while
traveling alongside another snowmobile, ATV or motorized golf cart or any other
vehicle.
   H.    Sixth Street: Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, it
shall be unlawful to operate a snowmobile, ATV or motorized golf cart on that
portion of Sixth Street that lies between Hartford and Hobart Streets.
   I.    Permit: On any public property without a current permit issued by the
city of Hawley. (Ord. 237, 7-26-2004)
6-3-3: COMPLIANCE WITH TRAFFIC REGULATIONS:
City traffic ordinances and all state laws shall apply to the operation of
snowmobiles, ATVs and motorized golf carts upon streets and highways, except
for those relating to required equipment and speed and except those which by
their nature have no application. (Ord. 237, 7-26-2004)
6-3-4: RIGHT OF WAY:
No snowmobile, ATV or motorized golf cart shall enter any intersection without
yielding the right of way to any vehicle or pedestrians at the intersection, or
so close to the intersection as to constitute an immediate hazard. (Ord. 237,
7-26-2004)
6-3-5: RULES OF OPERATION:
   A.    Operation Of Snowmobile: No person under fourteen (14) years of age
shall operate on streets or the roadway surface of highways or make a direct
crossing of a trunk, county state aid road, county highway, or city street as
the operator of a snowmobile. A person fourteen (14) years of age or older, but
less than eighteen (18) years of age, may operate a snowmobile on streets and
highways as permitted under this chapter, and make a direct crossing of such
streets and highways only if he has in his immediate possession a valid
snowmobile safety certificate issued by the commissioner of natural resources
of the state as provided by Minnesota statutes, section 84.872, as amended.
   B.    Operation Of ATV/Motorized Golf Cart: No person under sixteen (16)
years of age shall operate on streets or the roadway surface of highways or
make a direct crossing of a trunk, state aid road, county highway, or city
street as the operator of an ATV or motorized golf cart.
   C.    Owner Responsibility: It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile,
ATV or motorized golf cart to permit the operation contrary to the provisions
of this section. (Ord. 237, 7-26-2004)
6-3-6: PERMITS:
   A.    Effective January 1, 2005, anyone desiring a permit to operate a
snowmobile, motorized golf cart or all-terrain vehicle shall submit an
application in the following form: Application for permit for operating a
snowmobile, motorized golf cart, or all-terrain vehicles on the city streets of
Hawley, including:
      1.    Date,
      2.    Applicant name,
      3.    Year, make and model of vehicle,
      4.    Insurance company and policy number,
      5.    Current department of motor vehicle/department of natural resource
registration number, and
      6.    Disability requiring operation of snowmobile, motorized golf cart
or ATV.
   B.    The permits may be granted by city hall, for a fee to be set by the
city council, for a period of not to exceed one year, and may be annually
renewed. (Ord. 237, 7-26-2004)
6-3-7: DUTIES OF POLICE CHIEF:
The police chief of the city of Hawley, or any designee, shall have the power
to revoke said permits as the officer determines it in the public safety
interest. Revocation of any permit shall be made for a good cause. Appeals to
the city of Hawley police commission must be made within thirty (30) days of
the revocation and must be in writing and filed at city hall. (Ord. 237, 7-26-
2004)
6-3-8: RESTRICTIONS; HIGHWAY USE:
   A.    No snowmobile shall be operated upon a public street or highway unless
it is equipped with at least one headlamp, one tail lamp, each of minimum
candlepower as prescribed by state statute, reflector material of a minimum
area of sixteen (16) square inches mounted on each side forward of the
handlebars, and with brakes, each of which shall conform to standards
prescribed by state statute.
   B.    It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile, ATV or
motorized golf cart not licensed for highway use or when operating on natural
terrain within the city limits:
      1.    Intoxication: At any place, while under the influence of alcohol or
drugs as defined in Minnesota statutes, section 169.121, which is hereby
incorporated herein by reference.
      2.    Speed Limit: At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper
under all surrounding circumstances.
      3.    Reckless Driving: At any place carelessly or heedlessly in
disregard of the rights or safety of others, or in a manner so as to endanger
or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or property.
      4.    Hours Restricted; Snowmobile: During the hours from eleven o'clock
(11:00) P.M. to seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. of any day, closer than one hundred
feet (100') to any dwelling which is usually occupied by one or more persons.
      5.    Hours Restricted ATV/Motorized Golf Cart: ATVs/motorized golf carts
may only be operated on designated roadways from sunrise to sunset. They shall
not be operated in inclement weather or when visibility is impaired by weather,
smog, fog or other conditions, or at any time when there is insufficient light
to clearly see persons and vehicles on the roadway at a distance of five
hundred feet (500').
      6.    Towing: So as to tow any person or thing except through the use of
a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile, ATV or motorized golf
cart.
      7.    Slow Moving Vehicle Emblem: Motorized golf carts shall display the
slow moving vehicle emblem provided for in Minnesota statutes section 169.522,
when operating on designated roadways. (Ord. 237, 7-26-2004)
6-3-9: SECURING VEHICLE:
Every person leaving a snowmobile, ATV, or motorized golf cart in a public
place shall lock the ignition, remove the key and take the same with him. (Ord.
237, 7-26-2004)
6-3-10: EMERGENCY OPERATION OF VEHICLES:
Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this chapter, a snowmobile may be operated
on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time when, and at
locations where, snow upon the roadway renders travel by automobiles
impractical. (Ord. 237, 7-26-2004)
6-3-11: PENALTY:
Every person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 237, 7-26-2004)
TITLE 7
PUBLIC WAYS AND PROPERTY
CHAPTER 1
STREETS, ALLEYS AND PUBLIC GROUNDS
SECTION:
7-1-1: City Council Control
7-1-2: Street And Sidewalk Improvements Or Closures
7-1-3: Prohibited Acts And Conditions On Public Ways
7-1-4: Drains, Sewers Or Canals
7-1-5: Sidewalk Maintenance; Removal Of Snow And Ice
7-1-6: Penalty
7-1-1: CITY COUNCIL CONTROL:
All streets, sidewalks, parks, alleys or public grounds now or hereafter laid
out and in public use shall be under the control of the City Council and the
Council, by or through its duly appointed officers or agents, for such purpose
shall enforce or cause to be enforced all ordinances relative thereto. (Ord.
40, 6-3-1907)
7-1-2: STREET AND SIDEWALK IMPROVEMENTS OR CLOSURES:
   A.    Notice Of Construction; Closure; Hearing: Whenever the City Council
shall, upon its own motion, determine to lay out, widen, extend, open or close
any street, lane, alley, square or public ground or upon petition signed by the
owners of at least one-half (1/2) of the property abutting upon such ground,
said Council shall give public notice of such determination or petition and set
a date for hearing thereon by publishing a notice thereof at least once in a
legal newspaper within the County, setting forth the purposes and date of such
meeting and after such hearing the Council may act upon such determination or
petition either favorably or unfavorably in accordance with law.
   B.    Sidewalks; Construction, Repair:
      1.    All sidewalks shall be ordered and constructed in the manner
provided by law and the City Council may by order, signed by the Mayor, direct
any sidewalk, sewer or gutter previously built to be repaid, when necessary,
and the cost of such improvement or any part thereof, not less than one-half
(1/2), shall be levied by resolution upon the lots or parcels of ground on the
street or side thereof so improved. In case such repairs shall not have been
made within twenty four (24) hours after the service of such notice either by
servicing the same on the owner of in case of inability to serve such notice on
the owner, by posting said notices upon the premises for two (2) days, then it
shall be the duty of the Street Superintendent to forthwith cause the same to
be repaired and make his report thereof to the City Council.
      2.    Whenever any sidewalk shall be hereafter constructed in the City,
it shall be built in the manner and of the material to be approved by the City
Council; and any sidewalk constructed otherwise shall not constitute a legal or
lawful sidewalk and may be removed when a regulation sidewalk shall have been
ordered in accordance with law.
   C.    Excavations: Any person engaged in any building operation or making
any excavation upon or adjoining any public street, alley or public ground
shall construct and maintain all proper guards and maintain proper signal
lights during the hours of darkness to warn passers-by of danger and to prevent
accidents. Any person engaged in any moving, building or excavating upon or
adjoining any public street, alley or public ground shall cause red lights to
be placed in a conspicuous place, during darkness, and a reasonably convenient
passageway shall be kept and maintained in front of any building during the
process of construction to be approved by the City Council; and no person shall
occupy any street for building purposes without having arranged for such public
passageway to be maintained as above stated. Any such person who shall occupy
such street, alley or public ground as aforesaid shall, when the work is
completed, place the street, alley or public ground in the same condition as it
was before such occupancy. (Ord. 40, 6-3-1907)
7-1-3: PROHIBITED ACTS AND CONDITIONS ON PUBLIC WAYS:
   A.    Materials On Sidewalks, Public Grounds:
      1.    Obstructing Public Ways: No person shall deposit or cause to be
deposited, cast or place upon any street, alley, sidewalk or public ground
within the City any timber, wood, lumber, ashes, rubbish, offal, vegetables,
paper, shavings, carcass, earth or any substance whatsoever which may obstruct
any such street, alley, sidewalk or public ground or impede, or endanger travel
thereon, or which shall injure or disfigure the same, or tend to render the
same dangerous, unclean or a nuisance; nor shall any person cause or suffer any
wagon, carriage, cart or other vehicle, or any box, crate, bale, barrel,
package, merchandize or other object of thing to remain upon any such street,
alley or public ground longer than may be necessary. In case any of the
materials, substances or objects mentioned in this subsection shall be found
remaining within the City in violation of this subsection, it shall be duty of
the Street Superintendent or Chief of Police or any member of the City Council
to forthwith notify by written or verbal notice the person who may have placed
or caused to be placed any such substance or thing upon such street, alley,
sidewalk or public ground to immediately remove the same or cause the same to
be removed within a reasonable time; and in case of failure thereof it shall be
the duty of the party notifying to cause the removal thereof to some convenient
and proper place at the expense of such owner to be recovered in an action
against such offending party to be prosecuted in the name of the City.
      2.    Sale Of Goods On Sidewalks: It shall be lawful, notwithstanding
anything hereinbefore contained, for any regular dealer or merchant to set out
for sale or display any goods, wares or merchandize on or over the sidewalk in
front of and within three feet (3') of his store, provided said goods not be
dangerous, unsightly or a nuisance.
      3.    Building Materials On Streets; Permit: No person shall deposit or
cause to be deposited or kept any building material upon any street; and any
person wishing to use any part of a street, alley or public ground while
constructing a building upon the abutting premises shall first obtain a permit
therefor from the City Council, which permit shall be effective only for the
time therein stated.
   B.    Animals:
      1.    Fastening Of Animals; Placement Of Carts: No person shall place or
cause to be placed any wagon, cart, carriage or vehicle upon any sidewalk or
crosswalk in the City so as to obstruct the same, nor shall at any time fasten
any horse or other animal in such a way that such horse or other animal,
vehicle, reins or lines shall be an obstacle to the free use of the sidewalk or
crosswalk and any person in whose possession or use such horse or other animal
shall then be, shall be deemed the offender, unless he can prove the contrary.
      2.    Hitching Animals: No horses or other animals shall be hitched or
tied to any shade trees or any box of protection around such tree without the
consent of the owner, nor shall any such animal be hitched or tied to any
lamppost within the City.
   C.    Street Lamps: All street lamps, lampposts or lighting devices used or
erected by the City shall be under the control of the City Council and any
person who shall injure or destroy such street lamp, lamppost or lighting
device or cause the same to be injured or destroyed, whether through
carelessness or otherwise, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. (Ord. 40, 6-3-
1907)
7-1-4: DRAINS, SEWERS OR CANALS:
   A.    Straightening Of Watercourses: The City Council shall have power to
establish and maintain draws, canals or drains; to alter, widen or straighten
watercourses and prevent the destruction of any street, alley or public ground
and remove or abate the cause or cause the same to be removed or abated.
   B.    Throwing Of Filthy Substances Into Sewers Or Drains: No person shall
cast or throw or cause to be cast or thrown into any drains or sewers within
the City any filthy substance or any substance calculated to cause any
obstruction, nuisance or injury in the same. (Ord. 40, 6-3-1907)
7-1-5: SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE; REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE:
The occupant or owner of every building, or lot in the commercial district,
tenement or premises fronting upon any street within the City and the owner of
any unoccupied building or premises shall keep the sidewalk in front of their
respective premises reasonably free and clear of snow and ice and shall, after
each snowfall, cause the same to be removed within twenty four (24) hours after
such snowfall; and upon failure to do so the Street Superintendent shall cause
such snow or ice to be removed at the expense of such occupant or owner, to be
recovered in a civil action in the name of the City. (Ord. 40, 6-3-1907; 1996
Code)
7-1-6: PENALTY:
Unless otherwise provided, any person violating any provision of this Chapter,
upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 40, 6-3-1907; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 2
PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS AND BEACHES
SECTION:
7-2-1: Removing Or Defacing Property
7-2-2: Dumping Rubbish
7-2-3: Signs Restricted; Damaging Property
7-2-4: Trespassing
7-2-5: Shows; Entertainment; Permit
7-2-6: Vehicles And Traffic
7-2-7: Camping Restrictions
7-2-8: Penalty
7-2-1: REMOVING OR DEFACING PROPERTY:
No person shall remove, damage or deface any property belonging to the City and
situated in or upon any park, lake, river, playground or swimming beach within
the City . No person shall in any manner remove, injure, deface, molest or
tamper with bridges, dams, culverts, spillways, or floodgates in the lake or in
the Buffalo River, or any park, within the City. (Ord. 73, 10-25-1934; 1996
Code)
7-2-2: DUMPING RUBBISH:
The dumping or placing of rubbish, trash or waste material of any kind in the
lakes, ponds, streams or rivers or in any part of the parks, playgrounds or
swimming beaches or in or along any street, road or public place within the
City is prohibited. (Ord. 73, 10-25-1934)
7-2-3: SIGNS RESTRICTED; DAMAGING PROPERTY:
No person shall, without an order of the City Council, post or display any
sign, banner or advertisement or write upon, cut, mutilate or deface or
otherwise harm or disturb any building, bench, fence, railing, ornament, tree,
shrub, flower or other property in said park, playground or swimming beach.
(Ord. 73, 10-25-1934)
7-2-4: TRESPASSING:
No person shall trespass upon any ground of the City with notice posted
requesting all persons to keep off, nor sit or stand upon the fence or
enclosure of said ground. (Ord. 73, 10-25-1934; 1996 Code)
7-2-5: SHOWS; ENTERTAINMENT; PERMIT:
No person shall give any theatrical performances or entertainment, nor hold any
parade, procession or public assembly, nor cause any crowd to gather in any
park, playground or swimming beach within the City without a special permit
therefor from the City Council or from the Mayor. (Ord. 73, 10-25-1934)
7-2-6: VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC:
No person shall drive a vehicle upon any street, parkway or road within a park,
playground or public beach of the City in a reckless or careless manner or at
an unreasonable rate of speed. No trucks shall be permitted upon any such
street when, by resolution of the City Council, signs to that effect shall be
posted at the entrance to such streets; and no vehicles shall be parked in any
place where parking is prohibited by resolution of the City Council and "No
Parking" signs duly posted. (Ord. 73, 10-25-1934)
7-2-7: CAMPING RESTRICTIONS:
Camping or parking overnight is prohibited in any park or other public grounds
of the Municipality except in the public tourist campground. Picnics or
lunching parties may be held only in such places as are designated by the City
Council for that purpose. All lunching parties and others shall be required to
place all papers and other rubbish or waste matter in receptacles provided for
that purpose. (Ord. 73, 10-25-1934)
7-2-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to penalty as
provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 73, 10-25-1934; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
SHADE TREE PROGRAM
SECTION:
7-3-1: Regulations Adopted By Reference
7-3-2: Stockpiling Bark
7-3-3: Penalty
7-3-1: REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE:
Sections 1505.0010 through 1505.0600 of Minnesota Rules, Department of
Agriculture, Shade Tree Disease Control Program, 1993 Edition, together with
amendments thereof to date, are hereby adopted by reference and made a part of
this Chapter as if set out hereat in full, except as hereinafter provided. A
copy of said agency rules herewith incorporated is on file in the City Hall.
(Ord. 161, 12-10-1979; 1996 Code)
7-3-2: STOCKPILING BARK:
   A.    The stockpiling of bark bearing elm wood within the City limits shall
be permitted during the period from September 15 through April 1 of any given
year. Any such wood not utilized by April 1 of any year must then be removed
and disposed of as provided by this Chapter and the regulations incorporated
thereby.
   B.    Where the provisions of this Chapter conflict or are inconsistent with
any other ordinance of the City, the provisions of this Chapter shall supersede
except in instances where one regulation is more restrictive than another, in
which case the more restrictive shall apply and control. (Ord. 161, 12-10-1979)
7-3-3: PENALTY:
Any person who shall violate any provisions of this Chapter shall, upon
conviction thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to
penalty as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 161, 12-10-1979; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 4
STREET TREES
SECTION:
7-4-1: Definitions
7-4-2: Administration
7-4-3: Street Tree Species To Be Planted
7-4-4: Tree Planting Requirements
7-4-5: Public Tree Care
7-4-6: Arborists License And Bond
7-4-7: Review By City Council
7-4-8: Penalty
7-4-1: DEFINITIONS:
PARK TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other wood vegetation, in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the City, or to which the
public has free access as a park.
STREET TREES: Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation now growing
or hereafter planted, on the City street, avenue or alley right of way. (Ord.
207, 8-7-1995)
7-4-2: ADMINISTRATION:
The members of the Park Board shall administer this Chapter.
   A.    Duties And Responsibilities:
      1.    It shall be the responsibility of the Board to study, investigate,
counsel and develop and/or update annually, and administer, a written plan for
the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or disposition
of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets and in other public areas. Such
plan will be presented annually to the City Council and upon their acceptance
and approval shall constitute the official comprehensive City Tree Plan for the
City.
      2.    Upon the request of the City Council, the Board shall consider,
investigate, make findings, report and recommend to the City Council on any
matter or questions concerning the comprehensive Tree Plan.
   B.    Operation: The Street and Park Superintendent shall assist the Board
in implementing the spirit and intent of this Chapter.
   C.    Interference With The Park Board:
      1.    It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere
with the Park Board, or any of its agents, while engaging in and about the
planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any street
trees, park trees, or trees on private grounds, as authorized in this Chapter.
      2.    City employees and members of the Park Board shall have the right
to enter upon private property for the purpose of examining trees for suspected
disease and for the purpose of inspecting woodpiles for bark-bearing elm wood.
(Ord. 207, 8-7-1995)
7-4-3: STREET TREE SPECIES TO BE PLANTED:
The following is the official list of street tree species for the City. This
list shall be subject to periodic review by the Park Board, and shall
constitute a restriction on the type of trees that can be planted on the City
right of way. No species other than those included in the official list may be
planted without written permission of the Park Board or its designee. The
official list shall be reviewed at least annually by the members of the Board.
OFFICIAL STREET TREE SPECIES LIST
APPROVED BOULEVARD TREES
JUNE 1995
Tall Trees   Medium Trees
Norway Maple   Mountain Ash
   Emerald Queen      Shawy Mountain Ash
Red Maple      European Mountain Ash
   Autum Spire   Amur Cork Tree
Silver Maple      Ohio Buckeye
   Silver Queen Maple   Little-Leaf Linden
Sugar Maple   Greenspire Linden
Hackberry   Redmond Linden
American Linden
   Glenleven Linden
Green Ash (Seedless varieties only)   Small Trees
   Bergeson Ash
   Dakotah Centenial   Flowering Crab
   Summit Ash      Flame
   Patmere Ash      Red Spendor
   Marshall      Radiant
Honey Locust      Thunder Child
   Skyline      Spring Snow
   Shademaster      Kelsey
Pin Oak      Pink Spire
Bur Oak      Royalty
Cottonwood (Cottonless types only)      Snowdrift
   Siouxland   Japanese Tree Lilac
   Robusta   Canada Red Cherry
   Noreoster   Amur Maple
   Northwest
***   Prior to planting any boulevard tree the City must be contacted to
approve the planting site and tree species.
(Ord. 207, 8-7-1995)
7-4-4: TREE PLANTING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Spacing: The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the
three (3) species size classes in the official list as adopted pursuant to
Section
7-4-3 of this Chapter, and no trees may be planted closer together than the
following:
      1.    Small trees: thirty feet (30')
      2.    Medium trees: forty feet (40')
      3.    Large trees: fifty feet (50')
except in special plantings designed or approved by a landscape architect and
approved by the Park Board.
   B.    Distance From Curb And Sidewalk: The distance trees may be planted
from curbs and sidewalks will be in accordance with the three (3) species size
classes of the official list, and no trees may be planted closer to any curb or
sidewalk than the following:
      1.    Small trees: two feet (2')
      2.    Medium trees: three feet (3')
      3.    Tall trees: four feet (4').
   C.    Distance From Street Corners And Fireplugs: No street tree shall be
planted within thirty five feet (35') of any street corner, measured from the
point of the nearest intersecting curbs or curblines. No street tree shall be
planted closer than ten feet (10') of any fireplug.
   D.    Utilities: No street trees other than those species listed as small
trees in the official list may be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet
of any overhead utility wire, or within five (5) lateral feet of any
underground water line, sewer line, transmission line or other utility. (Ord.
207, 8-7-1995)
7-4-5: PUBLIC TREE CARE:
   A.    Public Grounds: The City shall have the right to plant, prune or
maintain and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets,
alleys, avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds as may be necessary to
ensure public safety or to preserve or enhance symmetry and beauty of such
public grounds.
   B.    Removal Of Certain Trees: The Park Board may remove or cause or order
to be removed, any tree or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition or
which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers, electric power lines, gas
lines, water lines, or other public improvements, or is affected with any
injurious fungus, insect or other pest. This Section does not prohibit the
planting of street trees by adjacent property owners; provided, that the
selection and location of said trees is in accordance with this Chapter, and
prior Park Board approval is obtained.
   C.    Tree Topping: It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any
person, firm or City department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree
on public property. "Topping" is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to
stubs larger than three inches (3") in diameter within the tree's crown to such
a degree so as to remove the normal canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees
severely damaged by storms or other causes or certain trees under utility wires
or other obstructions where other pruning practices are impractical may be
topped by a private property owner with prior permission of the Board or
designee.
   D.    Pruning, Corner Clearance: Every owner of any tree overhanging any
street or right of way within the City shall prune the branches so that such
branches shall not obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view
of any street intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of eight
feet (8') above the surface of the street or sidewalk. Said owners shall remove
all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which
constitute a menace to the safety of the public. The City shall have the right
to prune any tree or shrub on private property when it interferes with the
proper spread of light along the street from a street light or interferes with
visibility of any traffic-control device or sign.
   E.    Dead Or Diseased Tree Removal On Private Property: The City shall have
the right to cause the removal of any dead or diseased trees on private
property within the City, when such trees constitute a hazard to life and
property, or harbor insects or disease which constitute a potential threat to
other trees within the City. The Park Board will notify in writing the owners
of such trees. Removal shall be done by said owners at their own expense within
twenty (20) days after the date of service of notice. In the event of failure
of owners to comply with such provisions, the City shall have the authority to
remove such trees and charge the cost of removal on the owner's property tax
notice.
   F.    Removal Of Stumps: All stumps of street and park trees shall be
removed below the surface of the ground so that the top of the stump shall not
project above the surface of the ground. (Ord. 207, 8-7-1995)
7-4-6: ARBORISTS LICENSE AND BOND:
The City Council may, at any time after the adoption of this Chapter, by
resolution, establish a licensing requirement for any person or firm engaged in
the business or occupation of pruning, treating or removing trees within the
City. This license shall be called an "arborists license" and the City Council
shall establish the annual fee and may attach any conditions including a
requirement that the licensee be bonded or have liability insurance coverage.
(Ord. 207, 8-7-1995)
7-4-7: REVIEW BY CITY COUNCIL:
The City Council shall have the right to review the conduct, acts and decisions
of the Park Board. Any person may appeal from any ruling or order of the Park
Board to the City Council, who may hear the matter and make a final decision.
(Ord. 207, 8-7-1995)
7-4-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this Chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, and
shall be subject to a fine as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 207, 8-7-1995; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 5
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER BLADES AND ROLLER SKATES
SECTION:
7-5-1: Definitions
7-5-2: Unlawful Use
7-5-3: Impoundment; Penalty
7-5-1: DEFINITIONS:
The following words, terms and phrases when used in this Chapter shall have the
meanings described to them in this Section, except words whose context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
OPERATE: To ride on or upon or control the operation of a skateboard, roller
skates or roller blades.
OPERATOR: Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
skateboard, roller skates or roller blades.
ROLLER SKATES OR ROLLER BLADES: A form of skate with small wheels or rollers in
place of a runner.
SKATEBOARD: A device for riding upon, usually while standing, consisting of an
oblong piece of wood or other composition mounted on skate wheels. (Ord. 197,
5-5-1994)
7-5-2: UNLAWFUL USE:
It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a skateboard, roller skates or
roller blades under the circumstances set forth below:
   A.    Private Property: On private property of another without the express
permission to do so by the owner or occupant of the property.
   B.    Negligence: In any careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to
endanger, or be likely to endanger, the safety of any person or the property of
any person.
   C.    Public Sidewalks: On any public sidewalk in the commercial or downtown
area or on any sidewalk adjacent to the Hawley school grounds.
   D.    Sidewalks: The operator of a skateboard, roller skates or roller
blades emerging from an alley, driveway or building upon approaching a sidewalk
or the sidewalk area extending across an alleyway shall yield the right of way
to all pedestrians approaching the sidewalk or sidewalk area and upon entering
any roadway shall yield the right of way to all vehicles approaching on the
roadway.
   E.    Roadways: Every person operating a skateboard, roller skates or roller
blades upon a roadway shall ride as close as possible to the right-hand curb or
edge of the roadway.
   F.    Attaching To Vehicles: No person operating a skateboard, roller skates
or roller blades shall attach the same, or the person or the operator, to any
vehicle, other person or thing in such a manner that the vehicle, other person
or thing to which the attachment is made, cannot control or in any way affect
the operation of the skateboard, roller skates or roller blades in any manner
whatsoever. (Ord. 197, 5-5-1994)
7-5-3: IMPOUNDMENT; PENALTY:
   A.    Impoundment:
      1.    Any person operating a skateboard, roller skates or roller blades
in violation of the provisions of this Chapter does, by his or her use of the
public streets and sidewalks, consent to the impoundment by a police officer of
the skateboard, roller skates or roller blades for a period of three (3) days
upon a first offense, seven (7) days upon the second offense and thirty (30)
days upon the third offense.
      2.    If the article seized belongs to a minor under the age of eighteen
(18) years, the article seized shall be returned only to the parent or guardian
of such minor offender.
      3.    The return of any articles seized, by virtue of this Chapter, shall
be made only to the person from whom seized, except as herein provided, and the
signature of the person receiving the seized article shall be obtained upon a
receipt identifying the seized article and a reference to the nature of the
offense occasioning the seizure. Such receipt shall be prima facie proof of the
fact of the violation of this Chapter in any subsequent prosecution of the
violation of this Chapter.
   B.    Hearing: Any operator aggrieved by the impoundment of his or her
skateboard, roller skates or roller blades may petition the City Council for
hearing hereon at the next regular Council meeting following the impoundment.
This provision is in addition to the provisions for fines and penalties set
forth in subsection C.
   C.    Penalty: A violation of this Chapter is a petty misdemeanor punishable
pursuant to the provisions of Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 197, 5-5-1994; 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 6
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
7-6-1: Findings And Purpose
7-6-2: Definitions
7-6-3: Administration
7-6-4: Utility Coordination Committee
7-6-5: Registration And Right-Of-Way Occupancy
7-6-6: Registration Information
7-6-7: Reporting Obligations
7-6-8: Permit Requirement
7-6-9: Permit Applications
7-6-10: Issuance Of Permit; Conditions
7-6-11: Excavation Permit Fee
7-6-12: Right-Of-Way Repair And Restoration
7-6-13: Joint Applications
7-6-14: Supplementary Applications
7-6-15: Other Obligations
7-6-16: Denial Of Permit
7-6-17: Installation Requirements
7-6-18: Inspection
7-6-19: Work Done Without A Permit
7-6-20: Supplementary Notification
7-6-21: Revocation Of Permits
7-6-22: Mapping Data
7-6-23: Location Of Equipment
7-6-24: Relocation Of Equipment
7-6-25: Preexcavation Equipment Location
7-6-26: Damage To Other Equipment
7-6-27: Right-Of-Way Vacation
7-6-28: Indemnification And Liability
7-6-29: Future Uses
7-6-30: Abandoned And Unusable Equipment
7-6-31: Reservation Of Regulatory And Police Powers
7-6-32: Severability
7-6-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
To provide for the health, safety and well-being of its citizens, and to ensure
the structural integrity of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights
of way, the City strives to keep its rights of way in a state of good repair
and free from unnecessary encumbrances. Although the general population bears
the financial burden for the upkeep of the rights of way, a primary cause for
the early and excessive deterioration of its rights of way is frequent
excavation.
Right-of-way obstruction is a source of frustration for merchants, business
owners and the general population which must avoid these obstructions or change
travel or shopping plans because of them and has a detrimental effect on
commerce. Persons whose equipment is within the right of way are the primary
cause of these frequent obstructions.
The City holds the rights of way within its geographical boundaries as an asset
in trust for its citizens. The City and other public entities have invested
millions of dollars in public funds to build and maintain the rights of way. It
also recognizes that some persons, by placing their equipment in the right of
way and charging the citizens of the City for goods and services delivered
thereby, are using this property held for the public good. Although such
services are often necessary or convenient for the citizens, such persons
receive revenue and/or profit through their use of public property.
In response to the foregoing facts, the City hereby enacts this new Chapter of
this Code relating to right-of-way permits and administration, together with an
ordinance making necessary revisions to other Code provisions. This Chapter
imposes reasonable regulations on the placement and maintenance of equipment
currently within its rights of way or to be placed therein at some future time.
It is intended to complement the regulatory roles of State and Federal
agencies. Under this Chapter, persons disturbing and obstructing the rights of
way will bear a fair share of the financial responsibility for their integrity.
Finally, this Chapter provides for recovery of out-of-pocket and projected
costs from persons using the public rights of way. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-2: DEFINITIONS:
APPLICANT: Any person requesting permission to excavate or obstruct a right of
way.
CITY COST: The actual cost incurred by the City for public rights-of-way
management; including, but not limited to, costs associated with registering
applicants; issuing, processing, and verifying right-of-way permit
applications; inspecting job sites and restoration projects; maintaining,
supporting, protecting, or moving user equipment during public right-of-way
work; determining the adequacy of right- of-way restoration; restoring work
inadequately performed; and revoking right-of-way permits and performing all
other tasks required by this Chapter, including other costs the City may incur
in managing the provisions of this Chapter.
DEGRADATION: The accelerated depreciation of the right of way caused by
excavation in or disturbance of the right of way, resulting in the need to
reconstruct such right of way earlier than would be required if the excavation
did not occur.
DEGRADATION COST: Money paid to the City to cover the cost associated with a
decrease in the useful life of a public right of way caused by excavation.
DEPARTMENT: The Department of Public Works of the City.
DEPARTMENT INSPECTOR: Any person authorized by the Director to carry out
inspections related to the provisions of this Chapter.
DIRECTOR: The Director of the Department of Public Works of the City, or her or
his designee.
DISRUPTIVE FEE: The penalty imposed as a result of the adverse impact on City
citizens and others who are required to alter travel routes and times resulting
from right-of-way obstructions.
DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT: That portion of the City lying within and bounded
by the following streets: Sixth Street, Front Street, Main Street, Valley
Street, and Hobart Street.
EMERGENCY: A condition that: a) poses a clear and immediate danger to life or
health, or of a significant loss of property; or b) requires immediate repair
or replacement in order to restore service to a customer.
EQUIPMENT: Any tangible thing in any right of way; but shall not include
boulevard plantings or gardens planted or maintained in the right of way
between a person's property and the street curb.
EXCAVATE: To dig into or in any way remove or physically disturb or penetrate
any part of a right of way, except horticultural practices of penetrating the
boulevard area to a depth of less than twelve inches (12").
EXCAVATION PERMIT: The permit which, pursuant to this Chapter, must be obtained
before a person may excavate in a right of way. An excavation permit allows the
holder to excavate that part of the right of way described in such permit.
EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE: Money paid to the City by an applicant to cover the
costs as provided in Section
7-6-11 of this Chapter.
IN: When used in conjunction with "right of way", means over, above, in,
within, on or under a right of way.
LOCAL REPRESENTATIVE: A local person or persons, or designee of such person or
persons, authorized by a registrant to accept service and to make decisions for
that registrant regarding all matters within the scope of this Chapter.
OBSTRUCT: To place any object in a right of way so as to hinder free and open
passage over that or any part of the right of way.
OBSTRUCTION PERMIT: The permit which, pursuant to this Chapter, must be
obtained before a person may obstruct a right of way, allowing the holder to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of that right of way by
placing equipment described therein on the right of way for the duration
specified therein.
OBSTRUCTION PERMIT FEE: Money paid to the City by a registrant to cover the
costs as provided in Section
7-6-11 of this Chapter.
PERMITTEE: Any person to whom a permit to excavate or obstruct a right of way
has been granted by the City under this Chapter.
PERSON: Any natural or corporate person, business association or other business
entity including, but not limited to, a partnership, a sole proprietorship, a
political subdivision, a public or private agency of any kind, a utility, a
successor or assign of any of the foregoing, or any other legal entity which
has or seeks to have equipment in any right of way.
PROBATION: The status of a person that has not complied with the conditions of
this Chapter.
PROBATIONARY PERIOD: One year from the date that a person has been notified in
writing that they have been put on probation.
REGISTRANT: Any person who: a) has or seeks to have its equipment located in
any right of way, or b) in any way occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or use,
the right of way or any equipment in the right of way.
REPAIR: The temporary construction work necessary to make the right of way
useable for travel.
RESTORATION BOND: A performance bond, a letter of credit, or cash deposit
posted to ensure the availability of sufficient funds to assure that right-of-
way excavation and obstruction work is completed in both a timely and quality
manner.
RESTORATION COST: An amount of money paid to the City by a permittee to cover
the cost of restoration.
RESTORE OR RESTORATION: The process by which an excavated right of way and
surrounding area, including pavement and foundation, is returned to the same
condition that existed before the commencement of the work.
RIGHT OF WAY: The surface and space above and below a public roadway, highway,
street, cartway, bicycle lane and public sidewalk in which the City has an
interest, including other dedicated rights of way for travel purposes and
utility easements of the City.
RIGHT-OF-WAY PERMIT: Either the excavation permit or the obstruction permit, or
both, depending on the context, required by this Chapter.
SERVICE OR UTILITY SERVICE: Includes, but is not limited to: a) those services
provided by a public utility as defined in Minnesota Statutes 216B.02,
subdivisions 4 and 6; b) telecommunications, pipeline, community antenna
television, fire and alarm communications, water, electricity, light, heat,
cooling energy, or power services; c) the services provided by a corporation
organized for the purposes set forth in Minnesota Statutes 300.03; d) the
services provided by a district heating or cooling system; and e) cable
communications systems as defined in Minnesota Statutes chapter 238.
SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATION: An application made to excavate or obstruct more of
the right of way than allowed in, or to extend, a permit that had already been
issued.
TELECOMMUNICATION RIGHTS-OF-WAY USER: A person owning or controlling a facility
in the public right of way, or seeking to own or control a facility in the
public right of way, that is used or is intended to be used for transporting
telecommunication or other voice or data information. For purposes of this
Chapter, a cable communication system defined and regulated under Minnesota
Statutes chapter 238, and telecommunication activities related to providing
natural gas or electric energy services are not telecommunications right-of-way
users.
UNUSABLE EQUIPMENT: Equipment in the right of way which has remained unused for
one year and for which the registrant is unable to provide proof that it has
either a plan to begin using it within the next twelve (12) months or a
potential purchaser of user of the equipment. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-3: ADMINISTRATION:
The Director is the principal City official responsible for the administration
of the rights of way, right-of-way permits, and the ordinances related thereto.
The Director may delegate any or all of the duties hereunder. (Ord. 217, 6-22-
1998)
7-6-4: UTILITY COORDINATION COMMITTEE:
The City may create a Utility Coordination Committee. If created, this
Committee shall be voluntary and advisory to the Director. It will be composed
of any registrants that wish to assist the City in obtaining information and by
making recommendations regarding ways to take greater responsibility for the
right of way, and to improve the process of performing construction work
therein. The Director may determine the size of such Committee and shall
appoint members from a list of registrants that have expressed a desire to
assist the City. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-5: REGISTRATION AND RIGHT-OF-WAY OCCUPANCY:
   A.    Registration: Each person who occupies, uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right of way or any equipment in the right of way, including by lease,
sublease or assignment, or who has, or seeks to have, equipment in any right of
way must register with the Director. Registration will consist of providing
application information and paying a registration fee.
   B.    Registration Prior To Work: No person may construct, install, repair,
remove, relocate, or perform any other work on, or use any equipment or any
part thereof in any right of way without first being registered with the
Director.
   C.    Exceptions: Nothing herein shall be construed to repeal or amend the
provisions of a City ordinance permitting persons to plant or maintain
boulevard plantings or gardens in the area of the right of way between their
property and the street curb. Persons planting or maintaining boulevard
plantings or gardens shall not be deemed to use or occupy the right of way, and
shall not be required to obtain any permits or satisfy any other requirements
for planting or maintaining such boulevard plantings or gardens under this
Chapter. However, excavations deeper than twelve inches (12") are subject to
the permit requirements of Section
7-6-8 of this Chapter. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-6: REGISTRATION INFORMATION:
   A.    Information Required: The information provided to the Director at the
time of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
      1.    Each registrant's name, gopher one-call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      2.    The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration.
      3.    A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         a.    Shall be on a form approved by the City;
         b.    Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State, or is
covered by self-insurance which the Director determines to provide the City
with protections equivalent to that of a Minnesota licensed insurance company,
legally independent from the registrant;
         c.    Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the: 1) use and occupancy of the right of way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees, and 2) placement and use of
equipment in the right of way by the registrant, its officers, agents employees
and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection against liability
arising from completed operations, damage of underground equipment and collapse
of property;
         d.    Naming the City as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
         e.    Requiring that the Director be notified thirty (30) days in
advance of cancellation of the policy; and
         f.    Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers' compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the Director in amounts sufficient to protect the City and carry out the
purposes and policies of this Chapter.
      4.    If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate required
to be filed under Minnesota Statutes 300.06 as recorded and certified to by the
Secretary of State.
      5.    A copy of the person's certificate of authority from the Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission or other applicable State or Federal agency, where
the person is lawfully required to have such certificate from said Commission
or other State or Federal agency.
      6.    Such other information as the City may require.
   B.    Notice Of Changes: The registrant shall keep all of the information
listed above current at all times by providing to the Director information as
to changes within fifteen (15) days following the date on which the registrant
has knowledge of any change. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-7: REPORTING OBLIGATIONS:
   A.    Operations: Each registrant shall, at the time of registration and by
December 1 of each year, file a construction and major maintenance plan with
the Director. Such plan shall be submitted using a format designated by the
Director and shall contain the information determined by the Director to be
necessary to facilitate the coordination and reduction in the frequency of
excavations and obstructions of rights of way.
The plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      1.    The locations and the estimated beginning and ending dates of all
projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in this Section, a
"next-year project"); and
      2.    The tentative locations and estimated beginning and ending dates
for all projects contemplated for the five (5) years following the next
calendar year (in this Section, a "five- year project").
The term "project" in this section shall include both next-year projects and
five-year projects.
By January 1 of each year the Director will have available for inspection in
the Director's office a composite list of all projects of which the Director
has been informed in the annual plans. All registrants are responsible for
keeping themselves informed of the current status of this list.
Thereafter, by February 1, each registrant may change any project in its list
of next-year projects, and must notify the Director and all other registrants
of all such changes in said list. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a registrant
may at any time join in a next- year project of another registrant listed by
the other registrant.
   B.    Additional Next-Year Projects: Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Director may, for good cause shown, allow a registrant to submit additional
next-year projects. Good cause includes, but is not limited to, the criteria
set forth in Section
7-6-16 of this Chapter concerning the discretionary issuance of permit. (Ord.
217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-8: PERMIT REQUIREMENT:
   A.    Permit Required: Except as otherwise provided in this Code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right of way without first having obtained the
appropriate right-of-way permit from the Director to do so.
      1.    Excavation Permit: An excavation permit is required by a registrant
to excavate that part of the right of way described in such permit and to
hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of the right of way by
placing equipment described therein, to the extent and for the duration
specified therein.
      2.    Obstruction Permit: An obstruction permit is required by a
registrant to hinder free and open passage over the specified portion of right
of way by placing equipment described therein on the right of way, to the
extent and for the duration specified therein.
   B.    Permit Extensions: No person may excavate or obstruct the right of way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless such person: 1) makes a
supplementary application for another right of way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, and 2) a new permit or permit extension is granted.
   C.    Disruptive Fee: Notwithstanding subsection B of this section, even if
a new permit or permit extension is granted, the director shall establish and
impose a disruptive fee as a civil penalty for unreasonable delays in right of
way excavation, obstruction, repair, or restoration.
   D.    Permit Display: Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed at all times at the indicated work site and shall be
available for inspection by the director. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-9: PERMIT APPLICATIONS:
Application for a permit is made to the director. Right of way permit
applications shall contain, and will be considered complete only upon
compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   A.    Registration with the director pursuant to this chapter;
   B.    Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, and scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all existing and proposed equipment;
   C.    Payment of all money due to the city for:
      1.    Permit fees and costs;
      2.    Prior obstructions or excavations;
      3.    Any loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city because of
applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights of way or any
emergency actions taken by the city;
      4.    Franchise fees, if applicable.
   D.    When an excavation permit is requested for purposes of installing
additional equipment, and the posting of a restoration bond for the additional
equipment is insufficient, the posting of an additional or larger restoration
bond for the additional equipment may be required. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-10: ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS:
   A.    Permit Issuance: If the director determines that the applicant has
satisfied the requirements of this chapter, the director may issue a permit.
   B.    Conditions: The director may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the public health, safety and welfare, to ensure the structural
integrity of the right of way, to protect the property and safety of other
users of the right of way, and to minimize the disruption and inconvenience to
the traveling public. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-11: EXCAVATION PERMIT FEE:
   A.    Excavation Permit Fee: The excavation permit fee shall be established
in an amount as shown in section
3-8-1 of this code.
   B.    Obstructive Permit Fee: The obstruction permit fee shall be
established in an amount as shown in section
3-8-1 of this code. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
   C.    Payment Of Permit Fees: No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of such fees before the issuance of such a
permit unless the applicant shall agree to pay such fees within thirty (30)
days of billing therefor. All permit fees shall be doubled during a
probationary period.
   D.    Nonrefundable: Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the
director has revoked for a breach as stated in section
7-6-21 of this chapter are not refundable.
   E.    Use Of Permit Fees: All obstruction and excavation permit fees shall
be used solely for City management, construction, maintenance and repair costs
of the right of way. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-12: RIGHT-OF-WAY REPAIR AND RESTORATION:
   A.    Timing: The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
repair and restoration of the right of way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of extraordinary circumstances beyond the
control of the permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or
unreasonable under Section
7-6-15 of this Chapter.
In addition to repairing its own work, the permittee must restore the general
area of the work, and the surrounding areas, including the paving and its
foundations, to the same condition that existed before the commencement of the
work and must inspect the area of the work and use reasonable care to maintain
the same condition for thirty six (36) months thereafter.
   B.    Repair And Restoration: Permittee shall repair its own work. In
addition, in its application for an excavation permit, the permittee may choose
either to have the City restore the right of way or to restore the right of way
itself.
      1.    City Restoration: If the permittee chooses to have the City restore
the right of way, it shall pay the costs thereof within thirty (30) days of
billing. If, during the thirty six (36) months following such restoration, the
pavement settles due to permittee's improper backfilling, the permittee shall
pay to the City, within thirty (30) days of billing, the cost of repairing said
pavement.
      2.    Permittee Restoration: If the permittee chooses to restore the
right of way itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation
permit post a restoration bond in an amount determined by the Director to be
sufficient to cover the cost of restoring the right of way to its preexcavation
condition. If, thirty six (36) months after completion of the restoration of
the right of way, the Director determines that the right of way has been
properly restored, the surety on the restoration bond shall be released.
   C.    Standards: The permittee shall perform repairs and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the Director.
The Director shall have the authority to prescribe the manner and extent of the
restoration, and may do so in written procedures of general application or on a
case-by-case basis. The Director in exercising this authority shall be guided
by the following standards and considerations:
      1.    The number, size, depth and duration of the excavations,
disruptions or damage to the right of way;
      2.    The traffic volume carried by the right of way; the character of
the neighborhood surrounding the right of way;
      3.    The preexcavation condition of the right of way; the remaining life
expectancy of the right of way affected by the excavation;
      4.    Whether the relative cost of the method of restoration to the
permittee is in reasonable balance with the prevention of an accelerated
depreciation of the right of way that would otherwise result from the
excavation, disturbance or damage to the right of way; and
      5.    The likelihood that the particular method of restoration would be
effective in slowing the depreciation of the right of way that would otherwise
take place.
   D.    Guarantees: By choosing to restore the right of way itself, the
permittee guarantees its work and shall maintain it for thirty six (36) months
following its completion. During this thirty six (36) month period it shall,
upon notification from the Director, correct all restoration work to the extent
necessary, using the method required by the Director. Said work shall be
completed within five (5) calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the
Director, not including days during which work cannot be done because of
circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonal or unreasonable under Section
7-6-15 of this Chapter.
   E.    Failure To Restore: If the permittee fails to restore the right of way
in the manner and to the condition required by the Director, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the Director,
the Director at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall
pay to the City, within thirty (30) days of billing, the cost of restoring the
right of way. If permittee fails to pay as required, the City may exercise its
rights under the restoration bond.
   F.    Degradation Fee In Lieu Of Restoration: In lieu of right- of-way
restoration, a permittee shall pay to the City a degradation fee to cover City
costs associated with a decrease in the useful life of a public right of way
caused by excavation and repairs. Payment of a degradation fee does not relieve
permittee of the obligation to make necessary right-of-way repairs. (Ord. 217,
6-22-1998)
7-6-13: JOINT APPLICATIONS:
   A.    Joint Application: Registrants may jointly apply for permits to
excavate or obstruct the right of way at the same place and time.
   B.    With City Projects: Registrants who join in a scheduled obstruction or
excavation performed by the Director, whether or not it is a joint application
by two (2) or more registrants or a single application, are not required to pay
the obstruction and degradation portions of the permit fee.
   C.    Shared Fees: Registrants who apply for permits for the same
obstruction or excavation, which the Director does not perform, may share in
the payment of the obstruction or excavation permit fee. Registrants must agree
among themselves as to the portion each will pay and indicate the same on their
applications. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-14: SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS:
   A.    Limitation On Area: A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right of way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater, than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater
area: 1) make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby, and 2) be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   B.    Limitation On Dates: A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be done before the permit
end date. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-15: OTHER OBLIGATIONS:
   A.    Compliance With Other Laws: Obtaining a right-of-way permit does not
relieve permittee of its duty to obtain all other necessary permits, licenses,
and authority and to pay all fees required by any other City, County, State, or
Federal rules, laws or regulations. A permittee shall comply with all
requirements of local, State and Federal laws, including Minnesota Statutes
216D.01 through 216D.09 ("One Call Excavation Notice System"). A permittee
shall perform all work in conformance with all applicable codes and established
rules and regulations, and is responsible for all work done in the right of way
pursuant to its permit, regardless of who does the work.
   B.    Prohibited Work: Except in an emergency, and with the approval of the
Director, no right-of-way obstruction or excavation may be done when seasonally
prohibited or when conditions are unreasonable for such work.
   C.    Interference With Right Of Way: A permittee shall not so obstruct a
right of way that the natural free and clear passage of water through the
gutters or other waterways shall be interfered with. Private vehicles may not
be parked within or next to a permit area. The loading or unloading of trucks
next to a permit area is prohibited unless specifically authorized by the
permit. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-16: DENIAL OF PERMIT:
   A.    Mandatory Denial: Except in an emergency, no right-of-way permit will
be granted:
      1.    To any person required by Section
7-6-5 of this Chapter to be registered who has not done so;
      2.    To any person required by Section
7-6-7 of this Chapter to file an annual report but has failed to do so;
      3.    For any next-year project not listed in the construction and major
maintenance plan required under Section
7-6-7 of this Chapter;
      4.    For any project which requires the excavation of any portion of a
right of way which was constructed or reconstructed within the preceding five
(5) years;
      5.    To any person who has failed within the past three (3) years to
comply, or is presently not in full compliance, with the requirements of this
Chapter;
      6.    To any person as to whom there exists grounds for the revocation of
a permit under Section
7-6-21 of this Chapter; or
      7.    If, in the discretion of the Director, the issuance of a permit for
the particular date and/or time would cause a conflict or interfere with an
exhibition, celebration, festival, or any other event. The Director, in
exercising this discretion, shall be guided by the safety and convenience of
ordinary travel of the public over the right of way, and by considerations
relating to the public health, safety and welfare.
   B.    Permissive Denial: The Director may deny a permit to protect the
public health, safety and welfare, to prevent interference with the safety and
convenience of ordinary travel over the right of way, or when necessary to
protect the right of way and its users. The Director, in her or his discretion,
may consider one or more of the following factors:
      1.    The extent to which right-of-way space where the permit is sought
is available;
      2.    The competing demands for the particular space in the right of way;
      3.    The availability of other locations in the right of way or in other
rights of way for the equipment of the permit applicant;
      4.    The applicability of ordinance or other regulations of the right of
way that affect location of equipment in the right of way;
      5.    The degree of compliance of the applicant with the terms and
conditions of its franchise, this Chapter, and other applicable ordinances and
regulations;
      6.    The degree of disruption to surrounding communities and businesses
that will result from the use of that part of the right of way;
      7.    The condition and age of the right of way, and whether and when it
is scheduled for total or partial reconstruction; and
      8.    The balancing of the costs of disruption to the public and damage
to the right of way, against the benefits to that part of the public served by
the expansion into additional parts of the right of way.
   C.    Discretionary Issuance: Notwithstanding the provision of subsection A3
and A4 of this Section, the Director may issue a permit in any case where the
permit is necessary: 1) to prevent substantial economic hardship to a customer
of the permit applicant, or 2) to allow such customer to materially improve its
utility service, or 3) to allow a new economic development project, or 4)
otherwise required by law; and where the permit applicant did not have
knowledge of the hardship, the plans for improvement of service, or the
development project when said applicant was required to submit its list of
next-year projects.
   D.    Permits For Additional Next-Year Projects: Notwithstanding the
provisions of subsection A3 of this Section, the Director may issue a permit to
a registrant who was allowed under subsection 7-6-7B of this Chapter, to submit
an additional next-year project, such permit to be subject to all other
conditions and requirements of law, including such conditions as may be imposed
under Section
7-6-10 of this Chapter. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-17: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
The excavation, backfilling, repair and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right of way shall be done in conformance with "The Standard
Specifications for Street Openings" as promulgated by the Director and at a
location as required by Section
7-6-23 of this Chapter. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-18: INSPECTION:
   A.    Notice Of Completion: When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall notify the Director.
   B.    Site Inspection: Permittee shall make the work site available to the
Director and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   C.    Authority Of Director: At the time of inspection the Director may
order the immediate cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the
life, health, safety or well- being of the public. The Director may issue an
order to the registrant for any work which does not conform to the applicable
standards, conditions or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct
the violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten (10) days
after issuance of the order, the registrant shall present proof to the Director
that the violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented
within the required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to
Section
7-6-21 of this Chapter. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-19: WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT:
   A.    Emergency Situations: Each registrant shall immediately notify the
Director of any event regarding its equipment which it considers to be an
emergency. The registrant may proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to
respond to the emergency. Within two (2) business days after the occurrence of
the emergency the registrant shall apply for the necessary permits, pay the
fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements necessary to
bring itself into compliance with this Chapter for the actions it took in
response to the emergency.
If the Director becomes aware of an emergency regarding a registrant's
equipment, the Director may attempt to contact the local representative of each
registrant affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event,
the Director may take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the
emergency, the cost of which shall be borne by the registrant whose equipment
occasioned the emergency.
   B.    Nonemergency Situations: Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right of way must subsequently obtain a permit, pay double the normal fee for
said permit, pay double all the other fees required by the Legislative Code,
deposit with the Director the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right
of way and comply with all of the requirements of this Chapter. (Ord. 217, 6-
22-1998)
7-6-20: SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION:
If the obstruction or excavation of the right of way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the Director
of the accurate information as soon as this information is known. (Ord. 217, 6-
22-1998)
7-6-21: REVOCATION OF PERMITS:
   A.    Substantial Breach: Registrants hold permits issued pursuant to this
Chapter as a privilege and not as a right. The City reserves its right, as
provided herein, to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund, if
there is a substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute,
ordinance, rule or regulation, or any condition of the permit. A substantial
breach by permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      1.    The violation of any material provision of the right-of- way
permit;
      2.    An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the City or its citizens;
      3.    Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      4.    The failure to maintain the required bonds and/or insurance;
      5.    The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; or
      6.    The failure to correct a condition indicated on an order issued
pursuant to Section
7-6-18 of this Chapter.
   B.    Written Notice Of Breach: If the Director determines that the
permittee has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any
statue, ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the
Director shall make a written demand upon the permittee to remedy such
violation. The demand shall state that continued violations may be cause for
revocation of the permit. Further, a substantial breach, as stated above, will
allow the Director, at his or her discretion, to place additional or revised
conditions on the permit.
   C.    Response To Notice Of Breach: Within twenty four (24) hours of
receiving notification of the breach, permittee shall contact the Director with
a plan, acceptable to the Director, for its correction. Permittee's failure to
so contact the Director, or the permittee's failure to submit an acceptable
plan, or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
be cause for immediate revocation of the permit. Further, permittee's failure
to so contact the Director, or the permittee's failure to submit an acceptable
plan, or permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall
automatically place the permittee on probation for one full year.
   D.    Cause For Probation: From time to time, the Director may establish a
list of conditions of the permit, which if breached will automatically place
the permittee on probation for one full year, such as, but not limited to,
working out of the allotted time period or working on right of way grossly
outside of the permit.
   E.    Automatic Revocation: If a permittee, while on probation, commits a
breach as outlined above, permittee's permit will automatically be revoked and
permittee will not be allowed further permits for one full year, except for
emergency repairs.
   F.    Reimbursement Of City Costs: If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the City for the City's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorney fees
incurred in connection with such revocation. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-22: MAPPING DATA:
   A.    Information Required: Except as provided in subsection B of this
Section, each registrant shall provide to the Director information indicating
the horizontal and vertical location, relative to the boundaries of the right
of way, of all equipment which it owns or over which it has control and which
is located in any right-of-way "mapping data". Mapping data shall be provided
with the specificity and in the format requested by the Director for inclusion
in the mapping system used by the Director.
Within six (6) months after the acquisition, installation, or construction of
additional equipment or any relocation, abandonment, or disuse of existing
equipment, each registrant shall supplement the mapping data required herein.
Each registrant shall, within six (6) months after the date of passage of this
Chapter, submit a plan to the Director specifying in detail the steps it will
take to comply with the requirements of this Section. Said plan shall provide
for the submission of all mapping data: 1) for the Downtown Business District
within two (2) years after the date of passage of this Chapter, and 2) for the
remainder of the City as early as may be reasonable and practical, but not
later than five (5) years after the date of passage of this Chapter.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, mapping data shall be submitted by all
registrants for all equipment which is to be installed or constructed after the
date of passage of this Chapter at the time any permits are sought under these
ordinances.
After six (6) months after the passage of this Chapter, a new registrant, or a
registrant which has not submitted a plan as required above, shall submit
complete and accurate mapping data for all its equipment at the time any
permits are sought under these ordinances.
   B.    Telecommunication Equipment: Information on existing facilities and
equipment of telecommunications right-of-way users need only be supplied in the
form maintained by the telecommunications right-of-way user.
   C.    Trade Secret Information: At the request of any registrant, any
information requested by the Director, which qualifies as a "trade-secret"
under Minnesota Statutes 13.37(b) shall be treated as trade secret information
as detailed therein. With respect to the provision of mapping data, the City
may consider unique circumstances from time to time required to obtain mapping
data. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-23: LOCATION OF EQUIPMENT:
   A.    Undergrounding: Unless otherwise permitted by an existing franchise or
Minnesota Statutes 216B.36, or unless existing aboveground equipment is
repaired or replaced, new construction and the installation of new equipment
and replacement of old equipment shall be done underground or contained within
buildings or other structures in conformity with applicable codes.
   B.    Corridors: The Director may assign specific corridors within the right
of way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
equipment that is or, pursuant to current technology, the Director expects will
someday be located within the right of way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the Director involving the installation or replacement
of equipment shall designate the proper corridor for the equipment at issue.
Any registrant whose equipment is in the right of way in a position at variance
with the corridors established by the Director shall, no later than at the time
of the next reconstruction or excavation of the area where its equipment is
located, move that equipment to its assigned position within the right of way,
unless this requirement is waived by the Director for good cause shown, upon
consideration of such factors as the remaining economic life of the facilities,
public safety, customer service needs and hardship to the registrant.
   C.    Limitation Of Space: To protect health and safety, the Director shall
have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
equipment within the right of way if there is insufficient space to accommodate
all of the requests of registrants or persons to occupy and use the right of
way. In making such decisions, the Director shall strive to the extent possible
to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right of way, but shall
be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest, the public's
needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the right of way,
the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the protection of
existing equipment in the right of way, and future City plans for public
improvements and development projects which have been determined to be in the
public interest. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-24: RELOCATION OF EQUIPMENT:
A registrant must promptly and at its own expense, with due regard for seasonal
working conditions, permanently remove and relocate its equipment and
facilities in the right of way whenever the director requests such removal and
relocation, and shall restore the right of way to the same condition it was in
prior to said removal or relocation. The Director may make such request to
prevent interference by the company's equipment or facilities with: a) a
present or future City use of the right of way, b) a public improvement
undertaken by the City, c) an economic development project in which the City
has an interest or investment, d) when the public health, safety and welfare
require it, or e) when necessary to prevent interference with the safety and
convenience of ordinary travel over the right of way.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a person shall not be required to remove or
relocate its equipment from any right of way which has been vacated in favor of
a nongovernmental entity unless and until the reasonable costs thereof are
first paid to the person therefor. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-25: PREEXCAVATION EQUIPMENT LOCATION:
In addition to complying with the requirements of Minnesota Statutes 216D.01
through 216D.09 ("One Call Excavation Notice System") before the start date of
any right-of-way excavation, each registrant who has equipment in the area to
be excavated shall mark the horizontal and approximate vertical placement of
all said equipment. Any registrant whose equipment is less than twenty inches
(20") below a concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with
the excavation contractor to establish the exact location of its equipment and
the best procedure for excavation. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-26: DAMAGE TO OTHER EQUIPMENT:
When the Director does work in the right of way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move a registrant's equipment to protect it, the Director
shall notify the local representative as early as is reasonably possible. The
costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and must be paid
within thirty (30) days from the date of billing.
Each registrant shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any equipment in
the right of way which it or its equipment damages. Each registrant shall be
responsible for the cost of repairing any damage to the equipment of another
registrant caused during the City's response to an emergency occasioned by that
registrant's equipment. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-27: RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION:
   A.    Reservation Of Right: If the City vacates a right of way which
contains the equipment of a registrant, and if the vacation does not require
the relocation of registrant or permittee equipment, the City shall reserve, to
and for itself and all registrants having equipment in the vacated right of
way, the right to install, maintain and operate any equipment in the vacated
right of way and to enter upon such right of way at any time for the purpose of
reconstructing, inspecting, maintaining or repairing the same.
   B.    Relocation Of Equipment: If the vacation requires the relocation of
registrant or permittee equipment; and: 1) if the vacation proceedings are
initiated by the registrant or permittee, the registrant or permittee must pay
the relocation costs; or 2) if the vacation proceedings are initiated by the
City, the registrant or permittee must pay the relocation costs unless
otherwise agreed to by the City and the registrant or permittee; or 3) if the
vacation proceedings are initiated by a person or persons other than the
registrant or permittee, such other person or persons must pay the relocation
costs. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-28: INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY:
   A.    Limitation Of Liability: By reason of the acceptance of a registration
or the grant of a right-of-way permit, the City does not assume any liability:
1) for injuries to persons, damage to property, or loss of service claims by
parties other than the registrant or the City, or 2) for claims or penalties of
any sort resulting from the installation, presence, maintenance, or operation
of equipment by registrants or activities of registrants.
   B.    Indemnification: By registering with the Director, a registrant
agrees, or by accepting a permit under this Chapter, a permittee is required,
to defend, indemnify, and hold the City whole and harmless from all costs,
liabilities, and claims for damages of any kind arising out of the
construction, presence, installation, maintenance, repair or operation of its
equipment, or out of any activity undertaken in or near a right of way, whether
or not any act or omission complained of is authorized, allowed, or probated by
a right- of-way permit. It further agrees that it will not bring, nor cause to
be brought, any action, suit or other proceeding claiming damages, or seeking
any other relief against the City for any claim nor for any award arising out
of the presence, installation, maintenance or operation of its equipment, or
any activity undertaken in or near a right of way, whether or not the act or
omission complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by a right-of-way
permit. The foregoing does not indemnify the City for its own negligence except
for claims arising out of or alleging the City's negligence where such
negligence arises out of or is primarily related to the presence, installation,
construction, operation, maintenance or repair of said equipment by the
registrant or on the registrant's behalf, including, but not limited to, the
issuance of permits and inspection of plans or work. This Section is not, as to
third parties, a waiver of any defense or immunity otherwise available to the
registrant or to the City; and the registrant, in defending any action on
behalf of the City, shall be entitled to assert in any action every defense or
immunity that the City could assert in its own behalf. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-29: FUTURE USES:
In placing any equipment, or allowing it to be placed, in the right of way the
City is not liable for any damages caused thereby to any registrant's equipment
which is already in place. No registrant is entitled to rely on the provisions
of this Chapter, and no special duty is created as to any registrant. This
Chapter is enacted to protect the general health, welfare and safety of the
public at large. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-30: ABANDONED AND UNUSABLE EQUIPMENT:
   A.    Discontinued Operations: A registrant who has determined to
discontinue its operations in the City must either:
      1.    Provide information satisfactory to the Director that the
registrant's obligations for its equipment in the right of way under this
Chapter have been lawfully assumed by another registrant; or
      2.    Submit to the Director a proposal and instruments for transferring
ownership of its equipment to the City. If a registrant proceeds under this
clause, the City may, at its option:
         a.    Purchase the equipment; or
         b.    Require the registrant, at its own expense, to remove it; or
         c.    Require the registrant to post a bond in an amount sufficient to
reimburse the City for reasonably anticipated costs to be incurred in removing
the equipment.
   B.    Abandoned Equipment: Equipment of a registrant who fails to comply
with subsection A of this Section, and which, for two (2) years, remains unused
shall be deemed to be abandoned. Abandoned equipment is deemed to be a
nuisance. The City may exercise any remedies or rights it has at law or in
equity, including, but not limited to: 1) abating the nuisance, 2) taking
possession of the equipment and restoring it to a useable condition, or 3)
requiring removal of the equipment by the registrant, or the registrant's
successor in interest.
   C.    Removal: Any registrant who has unusable and abandoned equipment in
any right of way shall remove it from that right of way during the next
scheduled excavation, unless this requirement is waived by the Director. (Ord.
217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-31: RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS:
The City by the granting of a right-of-way permit, or by registering a person
under this Chapter does not surrender or to any extent lose, waive, impair, or
lessen the lawful powers and rights, which it has now or may be hereafter
granted to the City under the constitution and statues of the State (or the
Charter of the City) to regulate the use of the right of way by the permittee;
and the permittee by its acceptance of a right-of-way permit or of registration
under this Chapter agrees that all lawful powers and rights, regulatory power,
or police power, or otherwise as are or the same may be from time to time
vested in or reserved to the City, shall be in full force and effect and
subject to the exercise thereof by the City at any time. A permittee or
registrant is deemed to acknowledge that its rights are subject to the
regulatory and police powers of the City to adopt and enforce general
ordinances necessary to the safety and welfare of the public and is deemed to
agree to comply with all applicable general laws and ordinances enacted by the
City pursuant to such powers.
Any conflict between the provisions of a registration or of a right-of-way
permit and any other future lawful exercise of the City's regulatory or policy
powers shall be resolved in favor of the latter. (Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
7-6-32: SEVERABILITY:
If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or portion of this Chapter is for
any reason held invalid or unconstitutional by any court or administrative
agency of competent jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate,
distinct, and independent provision and such holding shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions thereof. If a regulatory body or a court of
competent jurisdiction should determine by a final, nonappealable order that
any permit, right or registration issued under this Chapter or any portions of
this Chapter is illegal or unenforceable, than any such permit, right or
registration granted or deemed to exist hereunder shall be considered as a
revocable permit with a mutual right in either party to terminate without cause
upon giving sixty (60) days' written notice to the other. The requirements and
conditions of such a revocable permit shall be the same requirements and
conditions as set forth in the permit, right or registration, respectively,
except for conditions relating to the term of the permit and the right of
termination. If a permit, right or registration shall be considered a revocable
permit as provided herein, the permittee must acknowledge the authority of the
City Council to issue such revocable permit and the power to revoke it. Nothing
in this Chapter precludes the City from requiring a franchise agreement with
the applicant, as allowed by law, in addition to requirements set forth herein.
(Ord. 217, 6-22-1998)
CHAPTER 7
MAIL RECEPTACLE MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
7-7-1: Findings And Purpose
7-7-2: Definitions
7-7-3: Administration
7-7-4: Mail Receptacle Location Requirements
7-7-5: Installation Requirements
7-7-6: Other Obligations
7-7-7: Variance
7-7-8: Penalty
7-7-1: FINDINGS AND PURPOSE:
To provide for the health, safety and well being of its citizens, and to ensure
the safety of its streets and the appropriate use of the rights of way, the
city strives to keep its rights of way in a state of good repair and free from
unnecessary obstacles.
The city holds the rights of way within its geographical boundaries as an asset
in trust for its citizens. The city has invested millions of dollars in public
funds to build and maintain the rights of way.
In response to the foregoing facts, the city hereby enacts this new chapter of
this code relating to mail receptacle (box) placement, together with an
ordinance making necessary revisions to other code provisions. This chapter
imposes reasonable regulations on the placement and maintenance of mail
receptacles (boxes) within its rights of way. (Ord. 247, 6-9-2008)
7-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
ADDRESS (PHYSICAL ADDRESS): The city of Hawley assigns the legal, physical
addresses to every lot and parcel within the Hawley city limits.
ALLEY: Dedicated alley area (full width) via city plat or easement.
APPLICANT: Any person requesting permission to install a mail receptacle on
city owned/controlled right of way.
BOULEVARD: The right of way area owned and controlled by the city of Hawley
that extends behind the curb line or beyond the hard surface street.
CARRIER ROUTE: The addresses to which a carrier delivers mail. In common usage,
carrier route includes city routes, rural routes, highway contract routes, post
office box sections, and general delivery units.
CURB LINE: The end of the curb farthest from the pavement. Often is the portion
of the curb that meets with a grass surface.
DEPARTMENT: The department of public works of the city.
DIRECTOR: The director of the department of public works of the city, or her or
his designee.
DOWNTOWN BUSINESS DISTRICT: That portion of the city specified by the following
streets: Sixth Street from Valley Street to Hartford Street; Main Street from
Seventh Street to Fourth Street; Front Street from Seventh Street to Fifth
Street; Fifth Street from Main Street to Front Street; and Hobart Street from
Seventh Street to Fifth Street.
DRIVEWAY: The hard surface area constructed on each parcel meant to allow off
street parking of vehicles and often leads into a garage.
DWELLING UNIT: A residential building or portion thereof intended for occupancy
by one or more persons with facilities for living, sleeping, cooking and
eating, but not including hotels, motels, nursing homes, seasonal cabins,
boarding or rooming houses, tourist homes or trailers.
IN: When used in conjunction with "right of way", means over, above, in,
within, on or under a right of way.
MAIL: Any mailable matter that is accepted for mail processing and delivery by
the USPS.
MAIL RECEPTACLE/MAILBOX: For the purposes of this chapter this refers to
mailboxes designed and made to be erected at the edge of a roadway or curbside
of a street and to be served by a carrier from a vehicle on any city route,
rural route, or highway contract route. All such receptacles must meet the
approval of both the USPS under their standards and the city of Hawley
requirements. These receptacles are designated as an authorized depository for
mail.
MAIL RECEPTACLE SUPPORT: The pole structure that supports a mail receptacle.
Must meet USPS and city of Hawley standards.
OBSTRUCT: To place any object in a right of way so as to hinder free and open
passage over that or any part of the right of way.
PARCEL: An individual lot or tract of land that houses one primary use. This is
often the same as a designated parcel number. Only one parcel exists for the
use of this chapter if multiple parcels are used by one primary use even if
they are not combined under the same parcel number.
RECEPTACLE: See definition of Mail Receptacle/Mailbox.
RIGHT OF WAY: The surface and space above and below a public roadway, highway,
street, cartway, bicycle lane and public sidewalk in which the city has an
interest, including the full dedicated street right of way width.
RURAL ROUTE (RR): A delivery route served by a rural carrier.
STREET: A public right of way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a
highway, thoroughfare, arterial, parkway, collector, throughway, road, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court or otherwise designated, which has been
dedicated to the public for public use and which affords principal means of
access to abutting property.
STREET LINE/RIGHT OF WAY: A line running the entire right of way width area of
street. Includes boulevard areas (typically 18 feet behind the curb as most
streets are 80 foot rights of way).
STREET PAVEMENT: The wearing or exposed surface of a street or roadway used by
vehicular traffic.
U.S. POSTAL SERVICE: United States postal service (USPS) with local office
located at 503 Front Street, Hawley, Minnesota. (Ord. 247, 6-9-2008)
7-7-3: ADMINISTRATION:
The director is the principal city official responsible for the administration
of the rights of way, and the ordinances related thereto. The director may
delegate any or all of the duties hereunder. (Ord. 247, 6-9-2008)
7-7-4: MAIL RECEPTACLE LOCATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Compliance Of Property Owner: The property owner is solely responsible
to fill out an application to the USPS for delivery to a mail receptacle on the
parcel they own. The property owner must comply with all requirements of both
the USPS and the city of Hawley.
   B.    Purchase, Installation, Maintenance And Replacement: The purchase,
installation, maintenance and replacement of mail receptacles used by customers
for mail delivery are the sole responsibility of the property owner.
   C.    Prohibited Rights Of Way: Due to the nature and use of the following
public streets and alleys, no mail receptacles shall be allowed within the
rights of way of the following streets and rights of way:
      1.    Fifteenth Street.
      2.    Downtown business district: That portion of the city specified by
the following streets: Sixth Street from Valley Street to Hartford Street; Main
Street from Seventh Street to Fourth Street; Front Street from Eighth Street to
Fifth Street; Fifth Street from Main Street to Front Street; and Hobart Street
from Seventh Street to Fifth Street.
      3.    Hobart Street west of Tenth Street.
      4.    Valley Street east of Sixth Street.
      5.    Joseph Street between Seventh Street and Eighth Street.
      6.    All alleys and utility easements.
   D.   Grouping Of Mail Receptacles: Grouping of mail receptacles or mailboxes
is allowed on any parcel right of way within the city of Hawley. This also
applies to locked cluster boxes. (Ord. 247, 6-9-2008; amd. 294, 8-21-2023)
7-7-5: INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.   Approval Of Application: Customers should ensure that their application
has been approved with their USPS postmaster before purchasing and installing
any delivery equipment.
   B.   Allowance Of Multiple Mail Receptacle: More than one mail receptacle
can be designated for use on the property with a limit of four (4).
   C.   Mail Receptacle Placement: Mail receptacle placement is designated as
within the boulevard, no closer than fifteen feet (15') from adjacent property
and no closer than five feet (5') from the driveway.
   D.   Fire Hydrants: No mail receptacles are allowed within seven feet (7')
of a fire hydrant.
   E.   Mail Receptacle: The city of Hawley has approved two (2) mailbox types/
materials, two (2) box designs, and a minimum and maximum size that are allowed
within city limits.
      1.   Approved mailbox types/materials:
         a.   Aluminum, powder coated mailbox, or
         b.   Steel, painted or rust resistant finish mailbox.
      2.   Approved mailbox designs:
         a.   Traditional design and shape, or
         b.   Rectangular design and shape.
         c.   Both of any color, with flag.
      3.   Approved size range for mailboxes:
         a.   Minimum size: Six and one-half inches wide by seven and one-half
inches high by seventeen inches deep (61/2"W x 71/2"H x 17"D).
         b.   Maximum size: Nine and one-half inches wide by fifteen inches
high by twenty two inches deep (91/2"W x 15"H x 22"D).
   F.   Mail Receptacle Post: The city of Hawley has two (2) approved post
supports for a curbside receptacle/mailbox that are allowed within city limits.
No solid nor cement support may rise up above the boulevard surface.
      1.   Swing away mail receptacle posts: These posts swing to the side if
hit by a vehicle and allow snow storage area under the mailbox as the pole is
installed at least three feet (3') behind the curb line.
      2.   Pole mailbox support that is placed two feet (2') behind curb line
with an extending arm to place mailbox at proper curb distance.
   G.   Installation Of Mail Receptacle Post: Property owner is responsible to
make a Gopher State locate call forty eight (48) hours prior to installation of
a mail receptacle post. Once the lot is marked the property owner needs to take
appropriate precautions to avoid utility lines while installing their post.
   H.   Location: Location subject to state laws and regulations, a curbside
mailbox must be placed to allow safe and convenient delivery by carriers
without leaving their vehicles. (Ord. 247, 6-9-2008; amd. Ord. 294, 8-21-2023)
7-7-6: OTHER OBLIGATIONS:
   A.    Clear Approach: Customers must keep the approach to their mailboxes
clear of obstructions to allow safe access for delivery. If USPS employees are
impeded in reaching a mail receptacle, the postmaster may withdraw delivery
service.
   B.    Physical Address On Mailbox Or Receptacle: Every curbside receptacle
or mailbox must bear the physical address for the property as assigned by the
city of Hawley.
   C.    Attachment For Newspaper Delivery Prohibited: No receptacles for
newspaper delivery by private carriers may be attached to the post of a
curbside receptacle or mailbox used by the USPS.
   D.    Damaged Receptacles: Damaged receptacles or mailboxes must be repaired
by the property owner.
   E.    Snow Removal Damage: If a mail receptacle is damage by snow pushed or
moved by the plow it is the property owner's responsibility for repairs. If a
box is damaged by a direct hit by the blade of a city snowplow, the city will
be responsible for the repair of the box.
   F.    Discontinued Operations: An owner who has determined to discontinue
use of their mail receptacle must remove the receptacle and receptacle post
within one month of discontinuance.
   G.    Repair Or Removal Of Receptacle: Inspections, if the director
determines that a receptacle is damaged, unused, or dangerous they shall give
notice to the property owner that it must be repaired or removed as per the
city of Hawley nuisance ordinance provisions. (Ord. 247, 6-9-2008)
7-7-7: VARIANCE:
A variance is a relaxation of the terms of this chapter where such variance
will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to conditions
peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the applicant, a
literal enforcement of this chapter would result in unnecessary and undue
hardship. As used in this chapter, a variance is authorized only for the
location of a mail receptacle on a property.
   A.    Initiation Of A Request For A Variance: Any person owning property may
initiate a request for a variance on their property by filling out a city form.
   B.    Consideration Of Request For Variance By City Council: The applicant
or a representative may appear before the council to answer questions
concerning the proposed variance. The city council shall have the authority, by
majority vote, to approve a location variance for a mail receptacle. (Ord. 247,
6-9-2008)
7-7-8: PENALTY:
Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
thereof, be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor pursuant to Minnesota statutes, and
shall be subject to a fine as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 247, 6-9-2008)
TITLE 8
PUBLIC UTILITIES
CHAPTER 1
WATER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-1-1: Connection Permit Requirements
8-1-1-1: Private Water System Unlawful
8-1-2: Water Connection Fees And Charges
8-1-3: Compliance With State Plumbing Code
8-1-4: Penalty
8-1-1: CONNECTION PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Permit Required: No person shall hereafter tap, or connect with,
either directly or indirectly, any water mains within the limits of the city
without first having obtained permission therefor from the city council, and a
written permit therefor, under the hand of the city administrator, issued for
such tapping or connection, nor shall any person so tap or connect, either
directly or indirectly, without paying to the said city administrator the fee
or charge hereinafter fixed and established.
   B.    Permit Required For Extra Connections: No person having a connection
with any water main in the city from any lot or from any building of any kind
shall connect therewith from any other lot or building whatsoever owned or
controlled by him without first having obtained permission from the city
council and a permit from the city administrator as hereinbefore provided, nor
shall any person having connection with any water main as aforesaid, allow,
suffer or permit any other person to connect therewith from any lot or any
building of whatsoever name or nature owned or controlled by such person,
unless such other person shall first have obtained permission from the said
city council and a permit from the said city administrator as in this section
provided.
   C.    Who May Issue Permits:
      1.    If the city council by resolution specifically authorizes him to do
so, the city administrator may issue tapping and construction permits for water
mains and sewer lines under this title prior to actual city council approval;
provided, that all fees and charges have been paid and all other requirements
of this chapter have been fulfilled, including the approval of the water and
sewer inspector.
      2.    In such cases, the permits would then be subject to ratification by
the city council at its next regular meeting. In the event that the council
should for any reason refuse to ratify the granting of such a permit, the city
administrator shall issue a five (5) day notice to the permittee and, unless
satisfactory arrangements are made in that time, the water shall be shut off at
the stop box. (Ord. 133, 4-24-1972)
8-1-1-1: PRIVATE WATER SYSTEM UNLAWFUL:
   A.    Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to install a new
private or community water system and/or well in the city limits.
   B.    No New Private Wells: In newly platted areas, only lots that have city
water and sewer extended can be issued a zoning permit. In no circumstances
will new private wells be allowed.
   C.    Connection Deadline: For those households within city limits that
currently do not have city water connections and have private wells, mandatory
hookup to city water will be required on or before August 21, 2005.
   D.    Application Deadline; Fee: To determine whether or not such public
water is available for an existing private connection each person or
corporation must make application for connection to the public system by
January 1, 2002.
Upon determination of the council that it is not feasible to connect the
applicant's premises to the public water system, then the applicant shall be
granted a permit to continue the use of their private system (well) for a
maximum increment of two (2) years. After the application expires, the process
would have to be repeated and reviewed.
A fee may be charged for this permit with costs set by council resolution.
(These fees will cover the costs of yearly testing of the water by city staff.)
   E.    Existing Wells Sealed; Deadline: All existing private wells within
city limits that are on property already connected to the city water system
will be sealed at the property owner's expense and in accordance with Minnesota
department of health requirements on or before August 21, 2002.
   F.    Documentation Of Sealing Completion Required: Owners of existing wells
must present the city of Hawley with documentation of completion of sealing the
private well by August 21, 2002.
   G.    Abatement: The associate public works supervisor shall be charged with
the enforcement of verifying sealing of any nonpermitted private well that
exists on premises in the city. The officer shall notify in writing the owner
or occupant of the premises of such fact and order that such well be sealed.
The notice shall be served in person, or by certified or registered mail. If
the notice is not complied with, within the time specified (60 days) the
enforcing officer shall report that fact forthwith to the city council.
Thereafter the city council shall cause the well to be sealed by the city.
   H.    Recovery Of Costs; Personal Liability: The owner of premises on which
the city has sealed a well shall be personally liable for the cost to the city
of the sealing, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the costs determined, the city clerk shall prepare a bill for the
cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due
and payable at the office of the city clerk.
   I.    Assessment: Once the well is sealed and payment is not received, the
city clerk shall, on or before September 1 next following the abatement of the
well, list the total unpaid charges along with all other such charges as well
as other charges for current services to be assessed under Minnesota statutes
section 429.01 against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The city council may then spread the charges against such
property under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to
the county auditor and collection along with the current taxes the following
year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten (10) years as the city
council may determine in each case.
   J.    Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any provisions of this
section shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 228, 4-16-2001)
8-1-2: WATER CONNECTION FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.    Fees Set By Resolution: The fees or charges for tapping or connecting,
either directly or indirectly, with any water main within the limits of the
city shall be set by resolution from time to time.
   B.    Additional Connections On One Lot: Fees or charges shall be paid for
each and every such tapping and connection from each and every lot, and from
each and every house, dwelling, residence, store, hotel or building of
whatsoever name or nature and whether the same be made directly or indirectly,
or through or by means of the connection with said water main of any other lot
or house, dwelling, residence, store, hotel or other building; provided,
however, that when more than one building other than permanent dwelling or
residence is situated on any lot, piece or parcel of land, a connection from
such building may be considered as only one connection and only one charge as
aforesaid shall be made therefor.
   C.    All such tapping fees shall be credited to the water fund of the city.
(Ord. 214, 9-22-1997)
8-1-3: COMPLIANCE WITH STATE PLUMBING CODE:
No person shall tap into or make a connection with any water main within the
limits of the city unless the tapping or making of a connection is made by a
duly authorized employee of the public utilities commission of the city in
accordance with the Minnesota plumbing code and also unless a minimum of three-
fourths inch (3/4") type K copper tubing is used from the said water main to
the property line of the property so connected. (Ord. 214, 9-22-1997)
8-1-4: PENALTY:
   A.    Violations: Any person who shall violate any provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof in any court having jurisdiction, be
subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 133, 4-24-1972; amd. 1996 Code)
   B.    Discontinuance Of Service: Water service shall be shut off at the stop
box connections when it is determined that the fees and charges provided for in
this chapter have not been paid in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 133, 4-24-1972)
CHAPTER 2
SEWER USE AND SERVICE
SECTION:
8-2-1: Water And Sewer Inspector; Duties
8-2-2: Permit Requirements
8-2-2-1: Private Sewer System Unlawful
8-2-3: Inspections
8-2-4: Connection Fees And Charges
8-2-5: Sewage Disposal System Funding
8-2-6: Prohibited Acts
8-2-7: Penalty
8-2-1: WATER AND SEWER INSPECTOR; DUTIES:
The water and sewer inspector, hereinafter called the "inspector", under the
direction of the city council, shall have control of the drainage and sewer
system, and of the water system and of all drains, sewers and water lines now
or hereafter built or authorized by the municipality, and the building, repair
and maintenance thereof, and connections therewith. Unless another person is
specifically designated by the city council, the public utilities
superintendent shall be the "inspector". (Ord. 133, 4-24-1972)
8-2-2: PERMIT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Permit Required:
      1.    Requirement: No person shall hereafter tap or connect, either
directly or indirectly, with any sewer within the limits of the city without
first having obtained permission therefor from the city council, and had a
permit therefor, under the hand and seal of the city administrator, issued for
such tapping or connection, nor shall any person so tap or connect, either
directly or indirectly, without first having paid to the city administrator the
fee or charge hereinafter fixed and established.
      2.    Permit For Each Separate Connection: No person having a connection
with any sewer in the city from any lot or from any building of any kind shall
connect therewith from another lot or building whatsoever owned or controlled
by him without first having obtained permission from the city council and a
permit from the city administrator as hereinbefore provided, nor shall any
person having connection with any sewer as aforesaid, allow, suffer or permit
any other person to connect therewith from any lot of any building of
whatsoever name or nature, owned or controlled by such other person, unless
such other person shall first have obtained permission from the city council
and a permit from the city administrator as in this section provided.
   B.    Application For Permit; Fees:
      1.    Application: All applications for sewer permits shall be made to
the city administrator by the person desiring the same. The applicant shall,
before beginning work upon the sewer to be constructed, repaired or extended,
deposit with the city administrator a written plan or drawing thereof, which
shall show the whole course of the drain from its connection with the sewer to
its terminus within the house. If the proposed sewer, as shown in the drawings,
complies with the provisions of the municipal ordinances and the Minnesota
plumbing code, and is satisfactory to the council, it shall authorize the
granting of the permit. The drawings shall be filed as a permanent record in
the office of the city administrator. (Ord. 133, 4-24-1972)
      2.    Fees: After such application has been approved by the city council,
and the applicant has paid to the city administrator the fee for making such
connection as provided in section
3-8-1 of this code, the city administrator shall grant the permit by affixing
his signature on the blank provided for that purpose. (Ord. 133, 4-24-1972;
amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
   C.    Plans To Be Approved: No drain shall be built, repaired, extended or
connected with any public sewer or drain unless and until all of the provisions
of this section are complied with and a permit for such building, repair or
extension and connection has been issued as herein provided.
   D.    Prerequisite To Issue Of Permits: No drain shall be built, repaired,
extended or connected with the public sewer, nor shall a permit for any such
work be issued or approved, unless and until all assessments for sewer
construction, or such installments thereof as shall be due at the time such
connection is made, against the property to be drained, shall be paid.
   E.    Completion And Connection With Public Sewer:
      1.    The person to whom a permit has been granted may proceed with the
construction of the sewer in accordance herewith. He shall notify the water and
sewer inspector of the progress of the work at such stages in the course of the
construction as the said inspector may direct; and in particular shall notify
such inspector when the construction of the sewer is complete and ready for
connection with the public sewer, but before such connection is made; and if
the sewer is satisfactory to the inspector in all respects and complies with
all the requirements of the Minnesota plumbing code and ordinances of the
municipality, he shall affix his signature to the sewer connection permit; and
thereafter, but not before, such sewer may be connected with the public sewer.
      2.    In the case of repair or extension of existing sewers or any work
not requiring any tapping of or connection with the public sewer, the work may
be completed, after the granting of the sewer construction permit, without the
granting of the sewer connection permit; but the inspector shall inspect the
work after it is completed and shall require that the work be done
satisfactorily and in compliance with the law before the filling in of
excavations. (Ord. 133, 4-24-1972)
8-2-2-1: PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEM UNLAWFUL:
   A.    Prohibited: It shall be unlawful for any person to install a new
private or community sewer system in the city limits.
   B.    No New Private Sewers/Holding Tanks: In newly platted areas, only lots
that have city water and sewer extended can be issued a zoning permit. In no
circumstances will new private sewers/holding tanks be allowed.
   C.    Connection Deadline: For those households within city limits that
currently do not have city sewer connections and have private sewer/holding
tanks, mandatory hookup to city sewer will be required on or before August 21,
2005.
   D.    Application Deadline; Fee: To determine whether or not such public
sewer is available for an existing private connection each person or
corporation must make application for connection to the public system by
January 1, 2002. Upon determination of the council that it is not feasible to
connect the applicant's premises to the public sewer system, then the applicant
shall be granted a permit to continue the use of their private sewer system for
a maximum increment of two (2) years. After the application expires, the
process would have to be repeated and reviewed. A fee may be charged for this
permit with costs set by council resolution.
   E.    Existing Private Sewers Removed; Deadline: All existing private sewers
within city limits that are on property already connected to the city sewer
system will be removed and rendered inoperable (i.e., filling with dirt) at the
property owner's expense and in accordance with Minnesota department of health
requirements on or before August 21, 2002.
   F.    Documentation Of Dismantling Required: Owners of existing sewers must
present the city of Hawley with documentation of completion of dismantling the
private sewer by August 21, 2002.
   G.    Abatement: The associate public works supervisor shall be charged with
the enforcement of verifying sealing of any nonpermitted private sewers that
exist on premises in the city. The officer shall notify in writing the owner or
occupant of the premises of such fact and order that such sewer be dismantled.
The notice shall be served in person, or by certified or registered mail. If
the notice is not complied with, within the time specified, the enforcing
officer shall report that fact forthwith to the city council. Thereafter the
city council shall cause the sewer to be dismantled by the city.
   H.    Recovery Of Costs; Personal Liability: The owner of premises on which
the city has dismantled a sewer shall be personally liable for the cost to the
city of the work, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the costs determined, the city clerk shall prepare a bill for the
cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due
and payable at the office of the city clerk.
   I.    Assessment: Once the sewer is dismantled and the owner billed, the
city clerk shall, on or before September 1 next following the dismantling of
the sewer, list the total unpaid charges along with all other such charges as
well as other charges for current services to be assessed under Minnesota
statutes section 429.01 against each separate lot or parcel to which the
charges are attributable. The city council may then spread the charges against
such property under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification
to the county auditor and collection along with the current taxes the following
year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten (10) years as the city
council may determine in each case.
   J.    Penalty: Any person convicted of violating any provisions of this
section shall be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. (Ord. 228, 4-16-2001)
8-2-3: INSPECTIONS:
   A.    Right To Enter: The inspector, or any representative of the inspector,
shall have the right to enter upon any premises or into any building in the
municipality, at all reasonable hours, to inspect the sewers, drains, traps and
fixtures connected therewith.
   B.    Notice Of Violation:
      1.    If it shall be found from such inspection or otherwise that the
provisions of the law are not being complied with in any respect or that any
part of the drainage system is in need of clearing out or repairs, the
representative of the inspector, or the board of health, shall serve a notice
at once, or as soon as may be, upon the owner, upon the occupant, and upon the
person in charge of the premises specifying the work necessary to be done to
make the sewer system comply with the law, or to put it in good workable
condition.
      2.    The notice shall also specify such time as is reasonable
considering the amount of work to be done, and the nature of the emergency,
within which the defects must be remedied.
      3.    It shall thereupon become the duty of every person served with such
notice to comply therewith; and if it is not complied with, the municipality
may cause the work to be done at the expense of any person so served. (Ord.
133, 4-24-1972)
8-2-4: CONNECTION FEES AND CHARGES:
   A.    Fees For Tapping Or Connecting: The fees or charges as set by
resolution from time to time for the tapping or connection, either directly or
indirectly, with any sewer within the city limits must be paid in advance to
the city administrator before the issuance of a permit for such tapping or
connecting, or may be paid in annual installments secured by a written lien on
the real estate, over a period not exceeding five (5) years, with the interest
at six percent (6%) per annum.
   B.    Additional Connections: Said fees or charges shall be paid for each
and every house, dwelling, residence, store, hotel or building of whatsoever
name or nature and whether the same be made directly or indirectly or through
or by means of the connection, with said sewer, or any other lot or house,
dwelling, residence, store, hotel or other building; provided, however, that
when more than one building other than permanent dwellings or residences, is
situated on any lot, piece or parcel of land, a connection from such buildings
may be considered as only one connection and only one charge or connection fee
will be made therefor.
   C.    All such tapping fees shall be credited to the sewer fund of the city.
(Ord. 214, 9-22-1997)
8-2-5: SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM FUNDING:
   A.    Monthly Charges Established: There is hereby imposed a monthly charge
to be paid by all users of the water system and the sewage system of the city.
The revenues from said charges are to be used to pay the cost of the
construction of the sewage disposal system of the city, for the maintenance of
said system or for any other lawful municipal purpose.
   B.    Charges Established: The amount of said monthly charges shall be
established by council resolution and may be reviewed and changed from time to
time. (Ord. 214, 9-22-1997)
8-2-6: PROHIBITED ACTS:
   A.    Obstruction Prohibited: No refuse or solids of any sort obstructive to
the flow of wastewater shall be placed, thrown or allowed to enter any public
sewer or allowed to remain on or in any trap or catch basin so as to obstruct
the sewer; and no person shall injure, break or remove any portion of any catch
basin, covering flag, gully grating, flush tank or manhole or any part of the
sewer, nor do any act obstructing or in any way interfering with the use of any
sewer or the flow of wastewater through any sewer.
   B.    Steam Exhaust: No steam exhaust or blowoff shall be connected with any
soil or waste pipe or drain which communicates with a public sewer. (Ord. 133,
4-24-1972)
   C.    Prohibited Discharges: No person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any storm water, ground water, roof runoff, yard drainage, yard
fountain, pond overflow or any substance other than sanitary sewage into the
sanitary collection system.
      1.    No roof runoff, sump pump, swimming pool discharge, drain tile or
surface water drainage shall be connected to the sanitary sewer system and no
building shall hereafter be constructed nor shall any existing buildings be
hereafter altered in such a manner that the roof drainage, drain tile or any
other source of discharge or drainage other than sanitary sewer shall connect
with the sanitary sewer system inside or outside the building.
      2.    Any person having a roof, sump pump, drain tile, swimming pool
discharge, cistern overflow pipe or surface drain now connected and/or
discharging into the sanitary sewer system shall disconnect and/or remove the
same prior to July 1, 1994. Any disconnects or openings in the sanitary sewer
system shall be closed or repaired in an effective, workmanlike manner as
described in subsection C3 of this section.
      3.    All sump pumps shall have a discharge pipe installed to the outside
wall of the building with one inch (1") inside minimum diameter. The pipe
attachment must be a permanent fitting such as PVC pipe with glued fittings.
The discharge shall extend at least ten feet (10') outside of the foundation
wall and must be directed toward the front yard or rear yard area of the
property.
      4.    Every person owning improved real estate that discharges into the
city's sanitary sewer system shall allow the city inspector or designee to
inspect the buildings to confirm that there is no sump pump, drain tile or
other prohibited discharge into the sanitary sewer system. Any person refusing
to allow the property to be inspected shall immediately become subject to the
surcharge hereinafter provided for and be subject to criminal liability. Any
property found to violate this subsection C shall make the necessary changes to
comply with this section and such changes shall be verified by the city
inspector.
      5.    A surcharge of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per month is hereby
imposed and shall be added to every sewer billing mailed on or after July 1,
1994, to property owners who are not in compliance with this subsection C. The
surcharge shall be added every month until the property is in compliance. The
imposition of such surcharge shall in no way limit the right of the city to
seek an injunction in district court ordering the property owner to disconnect
the nonconforming connection to the sanitary sewer system or from pursuing any
other legal remedies available, including criminal prosecution.
      6.    Upon verified compliance with this subsection C, the city reserves
the right to inspect such property at least yearly to verify compliance
herewith. (Ord. 193, 10-25-1993)
   D.    Inflammable Liquids: No waste from dyeing, clothes cleaning or other
establishment using naphtha, gasoline or other inflammable liquids shall enter
into any public sewer.
   E.    Grease: A grease trap and grated slop basin shall be constructed under
the sink of every laundry, hotel, restaurant or other public cooking
establishment.
   F.    Slops, Industrial And Chemical Wastes: All refuse from butcher shops,
rendering plants, packinghouses and other industrial establishments shall be
intercepted by some form of catch basin or grated slop basin and not allowed to
enter the sewer system. No sewage or commercial or industrial wastes from any
premises within the city limits shall be discharged into any stream or
watercourse within or adjacent to the city limits and no chemical, commercial,
or industrial wastes shall be discharged into the city sewerage system except
after approval of the city council upon such conditions as are imposed in each
case by the council. (Ord. 133, 4-24-1972)
8-2-7: PENALTY:
   A.    Violation A Misdemeanor: Any person who shall violate any provisions
of this chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to the penalty as
provided in section
1-4-1 of this code.
   B.    Discontinuance Of Service: Water service shall be shut off at the stop
box connections when it is determined that the fees and charges provided for in
this chapter have not been paid in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 133, 4-24-1972; amd. 1996 Code)
CHAPTER 3
STORMWATER UTILITY
SECTION:
8-3-1: Establishment
8-3-2: Finding And Determination
8-3-3: Stormwater Utility Fund
8-3-4: Residential Equivalent Factor (REF) Defined
8-3-5: Stormwater Utility Fee
8-3-6: Standardized Acreage
8-3-7: Other Land Uses
8-3-8: Adjustment Of Charges
8-3-9: Exemptions
8-3-10: Payment Of Charges
8-3-11: Late Payment Penalty
8-3-12: Establishment Of Tax Lien
8-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT:
Pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 444.075, the city of Hawley establishes
a stormwater utility fund and authorizes the imposition of just and reasonable
fees for the use and availability of storm drainage facilities. The stormwater
utility operations shall be a part of the street department and under the
administration of the city clerk-treasurer. (Ord. 250, 7-20-2009)
8-3-2: FINDING AND DETERMINATION:
   A.    In the exercise of its governmental authority and in order to promote
the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare, the city has
constructed, operated and maintained a stormwater system. This chapter is
adopted in the further exercise of such authority and for the same purposes.
   B.    The system, as constructed heretofore, has been financed and paid for
through the imposition of special assessments and ad valorem taxes. It is now
necessary and desirable to provide an alternative method of recovering some or
all of the future costs of improving, establishing, enlarging, replacing,
repairing, maintaining and operating the system through the imposition of
charges as provided in this chapter.
   C.    In imposing charges, it is necessary to establish a methodology that
undertakes to make them just and equitable. Taking into account the status of
completion of the system, past methods of recovering system costs, the
topography of the city and other relevant factors, it is determined that it
would be just and equitable to assign responsibility for some or all of the
future costs of improving, establishing, enlarging, replacing, repairing,
maintaining and operating the system on the basis of the expected stormwater
runoff from the various parcels of land within the city during a standard
rainfall event. (Ord. 250, 7-20-2009)
8-3-3: STORMWATER UTILITY FUND:
There is hereby created a stormwater utility fund into which all charges, when
collected, and all monies received from the sale of any facilities or equipment
or any byproducts shall be placed. Such monies shall be used first to pay
normal, reasonable and current costs of operating and maintaining the
facilities. (Ord. 250, 7-20-2009)
8-3-4: RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT FACTOR (REF) DEFINED:
For the purpose of this section one "residential equivalent factor (REF)" is
defined as: "The ratio of the average volume of surface water runoff generated
by fourteen thousand five hundred twenty (14,520) square feet of a given land
use, to the average volume of runoff generated by fourteen thousand five
hundred twenty (14,520) square feet of typical single-family residential land,
during a standard 1-year rainfall event". (Ord. 250, 7-20-2009)
8-3-5: STORMWATER UTILITY FEE:
In determining charges, the city council shall by ordinance establish a basic
system rate to be charged monthly against fourteen thousand five hundred twenty
(14,520) square feet of land having an REF of one. The charge to be made
against each parcel of land shall then be determined by multiplying the REF for
the parcel's land use classification times the basic system rate. (REF rate x
basic system rate = monthly stormwater utility fee.) (Ord. 250, 7-20-2009)
The classification numbers and REF rates for various land uses are set as
follows:
Classification  Land Use  REF Rate
Classification   Land Use                                             REF Rate
               Residential lots:                                    
1                Apartment units:                                   
                 Apartment (each unit) or to apartment owner     0.25
                     based upon nonresidential square footage below
2                Single-family residential                         1.0
3                Twin home (each unit)                             1.0
4                Fourplex (each unit)                              0.5
5                Single-family manufactured home in manufactured   0.25
                   housing park
               Nonresidential lots:                                 
6                Up to 7,000 square feet                           2.0
7                7,001 to 14,520 square feet                       3.0
8                14,521 to 43,560 square feet                      4.0
9                43,561 to 87,160 square feet                      8.0
10               87,161 to 174,240 square feet                     12.0
11               Over 174,240 square feet                          18.0
12              Vacant lot (no structures/no hard surface)          0.0
 
(Ord. 250, 7-20-2009; amd. Ord. 263, 10-7-2013)
8-3-6: STANDARDIZED ACREAGE:
For the purpose of calculating stormwater utility fees, all developed single-
family and duplex parcels shall be considered to have fourteen thousand five
hundred twenty (14,520) square feet. (Ord. 250, 7-20-2009)
8-3-7: OTHER LAND USES:
Other land uses not listed in the foregoing table shall be classified by the
city clerk-treasurer by assigning them to classes most nearly like the listed
uses, from the standpoint of runoff volume for a standard rainfall event and
lot square footage. An appeal of such classifications from the determination of
the city clerk-treasurer may be made to the city council. (Ord. 250, 7-20-2009)
8-3-8: ADJUSTMENT OF CHARGES:
The city council may by resolution adopt policies providing for the adjustment
of charges for parcels based upon land use data supplied by affected property
owners which demonstrates a runoff volume for a standard rainfall event
substantially different from the REF being used for such parcels. Such
adjustments for stormwater utility fees shall not be made retroactively. (Ord.
250, 7-20-2009)
8-3-9: EXEMPTIONS:
Public street right of way and vacant unimproved land with ground cover (grass
or crops) are exempt from stormwater utility fees and shall be classification
number 12. (Ord. 250, 7-20-2009)
8-3-10: PAYMENT OF CHARGES:
Statements for stormwater utility fees shall be made a part of the present
utility billing system invoiced through the Hawley public utility commission at
city hall on a monthly basis. All charges shall be subject to established
procedures for determining and collecting customer charges. (Ord. 250, 7-20-
2009)
8-3-11: LATE PAYMENT PENALTY:
Each billing for stormwater utility fees which are not paid when due, shall
incur a penalty charge of two percent (2%) on the amount past due. (Ord. 250,
7-20-2009)
8-3-12: ESTABLISHMENT OF TAX LIEN:
Any past due stormwater utility fees will be certified to the county auditor
for collection with real estate taxes against the property served by the
utility established in this chapter for collection as other taxes are collected
in the following year pursuant to Minnesota statutes section 444.075,
subdivision 3 and this code. In addition, the city may have the right to bring
a civil action or take other legal remedies to collect unpaid charges. (Ord.
250, 7-20-2009)
TITLE 9
BUILDING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 1
REAR YARD DRAINAGE
SECTION:
9-1-1: Yard Grading; Requirements And Restrictions
9-1-2: Drainage Problems; Petition For Corrective Action
9-1-3: Front Yard Elevations
9-1-4: Compliance With Regulations
9-1-5: Penalty
9-1-1: YARD GRADING; REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS:
   A.    Yard Grading Plan: No person shall construct or grade a yard within
the city without first submitting his plan to the city administrator who shall
consult the city engineer to establish the necessary grades so as to provide
adequate drainage.
   B.    Regrading Lots: If any person hereafter constructs or grades or
regrades his yard without first having obtained an established grade from the
city engineer, such person shall be obligated to regrade the lot in accordance
with the grade established by the city engineer and under his supervision.
   C.    Flow Of Rain Water: No person shall divert rain water from his
property in such a manner as to cause it to flow into an adjacent property.
(Ord. 159, 9-10-1979)
9-1-2: DRAINAGE PROBLEMS; PETITION FOR CORRECTIVE ACTION:
In residential areas where drainage problems exist, a majority of the affected
property owners may petition the city council for corrective action. Upon
receipt of said petition, the city engineer shall make a survey and prepare a
plan cost estimate and submit it to the council. If the council determines that
the plan is feasible, it shall order the project completed and the entire cost,
including engineering and administrative costs assessed against the benefited
property in accordance with Minnesota state law and the ordinances and
regulations of the city. (Ord. 159, 9-10-1979)
9-1-3: FRONT YARD ELEVATIONS:
New residential construction shall have the building elevation requirements set
by the city engineer in writing. The elevation shall be measured as the
difference in the following two (2) points: from the front elevation of the
finished garage floor, to the flowline of curb (lowest point of curb) measured
from the center of the driveway.
The typical range shall be thirty (30) to thirty six inches (36"). The final
determination will be made by the city engineer to avoid drainage problems and
other potential conflicts. (Ord. 236, 7-26-2004)
9-1-4: COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS:
As a condition for receiving a zoning permit for new construction, each
property owner or builder shall agree to abide by the provisions of this
chapter. (Ord. 159, 9-10-1979)
9-1-5: PENALTY:
   A.    Any person who shall be convicted of a violation of this chapter
shall, upon such conviction, be subject to penalty as provided in section
1-4-1 of this code. Each day that said violation is allowed to continue shall
constitute a separate and distinct offense. (Ord. 159, 9-10-1979; amd. 1996
Code)
   B.    Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection A of this section, the
city may seek from the appropriate courts of Clay County, Minnesota, all
injunctive relief allowable under the laws of the state to correct violations,
to prohibit their continuance, and to obtain such other and further relief as
the city may deem necessary for the safety and protection of its citizens.
(Ord. 159, 9-10-1979)
CHAPTER 2
BUILDING NUMBERING
SECTION:
9-2-1: City Divisions
9-2-2: Numbers
9-2-3: Implementing Of System; City Administrator Duties
9-2-4: Unauthorized Numbers Prohibited
9-2-5: Building Numbers; Requirements
9-2-6: Penalty
9-2-1: CITY DIVISIONS:
For the purpose of assigning numbers, the City shall be divided between east
and west by First Street, and north and south by the Highway No. 10 right of
way. (Ord. 201, 7-11-1994)
9-2-2: NUMBERS:
   A.    Blocks: Each platted block or the equivalent thereof shall be assigned
one hundred (100) numbers, which shall be progressive in both directions from
each of the dividing streets referred to in the previous section.
      1.    All numbers on the south side of any street shall be odd numbers.
      2.    All numbers on the north side of any street shall be even numbers.
      3.    All numbers on the east side of any street shall be even numbers.
      4.    All numbers on the west side of any street shall be odd numbers.
      5.    Cul-de-sacs shall be given numbers sequentially in a counter
clockwise rotation.
   B.    Streets With Curves Or Loops: Streets with curves and/or loops shall
be numbered at the discretion of the City Administrator, keeping the numbers as
consistent as possible. (Ord. 202, 8-8- 1994)
   C.    Numbers Per Lots Or Footage: In all platted areas, one number shall be
assigned to each lot on the street. In all other cases, one number shall be
assigned to each twenty five feet (25') of frontage on the street as nearly as
practicable. (Ord. 201, 7-11-1994)
9-2-3: IMPLEMENTATION OF SYSTEM; CITY ADMINISTRATOR DUTIES:
   A.    Assigning Numbers: The City Administrator is hereby authorized to
implement this Chapter by preparing all necessary maps and assigning numbers,
and by disseminating information regarding number designations by any
appropriate means.
   B.    Numbers Outside City Limits: The City Administrator may, upon request
of the owner or occupant thereof, provide a number designation for any premises
lying within one mile of the City limits. Any number issued for a property
owner lying outside the City limits shall be subject to change immediately
without notice at the discretion of the City Administrator. No property rights
shall vest in any number granted under this Chapter. (Ord. 201, 7-11-1994)
9-2-4: UNAUTHORIZED NUMBERS PROHIBITED:
No person shall use any number to designate any premises within the City other
than those numbers approved by this Chapter. (Ord. 201, 7-11-1994)
9-2-5: BUILDING NUMBERS; REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Size And Location: All building numbers assigned by this Chapter shall
be affixed to the main building or on the premises on or before July 1, 1994.
Such numbers shall be of sufficient size and shall be so located as to be seen
easily from the street. If such numbers are not affixed by that date by the
owner, the City Administrator may arrange for the numbers to be so affixed and
shall charge a reasonable fee therefor.
   B.    New Buildings: All buildings constructed after July 1, 1994, shall
have numbers affixed pursuant to this Chapter within thirty (30) days of
building completion. (Ord. 201, 7-11-1994)
9-2-6: PENALTY:
Any person violating this Chapter by failing to affix the proper numbers or
affixing unauthorized numbers is guilty of a petty misdemeanor punishable by
the maximum allowed penalty for such offense as provided in Section
1-4-1 of this Code. (Ord. 201, 7-11-1994; 1996 Code)
TITLE 10
ZONING
CHAPTER 1
BASIC PROVISIONS
SECTION:
10-1-1: Purpose And Intent
10-1-2: Application Of District Regulations
10-1-1: PURPOSE AND INTENT:
   A.    Short Title: The official title of this title is the ZONING ORDINANCE
OF THE CITY OF HAWLEY, MINNESOTA.
   B.    Purpose: This is a title for the purpose of promoting the public
health, safety, comfort, and general welfare, and to implement the
comprehensive plan. This is achieved by regulating the location and size of
buildings and other structures; the percentage of each lot which may be
occupied; the size of yards and other open spaces; the density and distribution
of population; the uses of buildings and structures for trade, industry,
residence, recreation, public activities, or other purposes; and the use of
land for trade, industry, residence, recreation, agriculture, forestry, soil
conservation, water supply conservation, conservation of shore lands, flood
control or other purposes, and establishing standards and procedures regulating
such uses. As residential development is considered the cornerstone of
development in the city, this zoning ordinance will ensure the availability of
an ample supply of land to meet the diverse housing needs of all residents in a
compact and orderly manner. As housing growth occurs, the opportunity for
commercial and light industrial development must also be accommodated.
   C.    Intent: To protect the public such provisions are intended to provide
for adequate light and air, safety from fire and other danger; prevent
unhealthy concentrations of population; provide ample parking facilities;
regulate the location and operation of businesses, industries, dwellings and
buildings for other specified purposes; preserve and stabilize property values
by providing for orderly and compatible development of the various land uses;
provide for administration of this title; provide for amendments hereto;
provide for official recording of this title and all amendments hereto;
implement the comprehensive plan and exercise any or all of the powers to the
city of Hawley under state law.
   D.    Interpretation: In their interpretation and application, the
provisions of this title shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted
for the promotion of the public health, comfort, safety, and welfare and to
implement the comprehensive plan.
   E.    Existing Law: Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this
title are either more restrictive or less restrictive than comparable
conditions imposed by any other law, ordinance, code, statute, resolution, or
regulation of any kind, the regulations which are more restrictive, or impose
higher standards or requirements shall prevail.
   F.    Separability: Should any section or provision of this title be
declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall
not affect the validity of this title as a whole, or any part, thereof, other
than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid.
   G.    Repeal Of Conflicting Ordinances: All ordinances or parts of
ordinances in conflict with this zoning ordinance, or inconsistent with the
provisions of this title, are hereby repealed to the extent necessary to give
this title full force and effect. This title shall become effective upon its
adoption by the Hawley city council and its publication of purpose and intent
and brief summary in the official newspaper.
   H.    Relation To The Comprehensive Plan: Enforcement, amendment, and
administration of this title will be accomplished with due consideration of the
recommendations contained in the comprehensive plan for the city of Hawley,
Minnesota, as adopted and periodically amended by the planning commission and
city council. The city council recognizes the comprehensive plan as the
principle guidance for regulating land use and development in accordance with
the policies and purpose set forth in this title.
   I.    Authority: This title is enacted pursuant to the authority granted by
the municipal planning act, Minnesota statutes, sections 462.351 – 462.363, and
all amendments and revisions to said chapter. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-1-2: APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS:
   A.    Rules For Interpretation Of District Boundaries: Where uncertainty
exists as to the boundaries of districts shown on the official zoning map, the
following rules shall apply:
      1.    Streets: Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow such
centerlines;
      2.    Lot Lines: Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted
lot lines shall be construed as following such lot lines;
      3.    City Limits: Boundaries indicated as approximately following city
limits shall be construed as following city limits;
      4.    Railroads: Boundaries indicated as following railroad tracks shall
be construed to be midway between the main tracks;
      5.    Drains: Boundaries indicated as approximately following the
centerlines of drains or other bodies of water shall be construed to follow
such centerlines;
      6.    Extensions: Boundaries indicated as parallel to, or extensions of,
features indicated in subsections A1 through A5 of this section shall be so
construed. Distances not specifically indicated on the official zoning map
shall be determined by the scale of the map or field survey;
      7.    Vacated Ways: Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is
vacated in the manner authorized by law, the zoned district adjoining each side
of such street, alley, or public way shall be automatically extended to the
center of such vacation and all included in the vacation shall then, and
henceforth, be subject to all regulations of the extended districts.
   B.    Conformity: No building, structure, or land shall hereafter be used or
occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof shall hereafter be
erected, converted, enlarged, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or
structurally altered, and no land shall be used for any purpose nor in any
manner, unless in conformity with all of the regulations herein specified for
the district in which it is located and without a permit being issued when
required by this title.
   C.    Uses Not Provided Within Zoning Districts: In a zoning district if a
use is neither specifically permitted nor prohibited, the use shall be
considered prohibited. In such cases, the council or the planning commission,
on their own initiative or upon request, may conduct a study to determine if
the use is acceptable and if so, what zoning district would be most appropriate
and also the determination of conditions and standards relating to the
development of the use. The council, planning commission, or property owner,
upon receipt of the staff study shall, if appropriate, initiate an amendment to
this title to provide for the particular use under consideration or shall find
that the use is not compatible for development in the city.
   D.    Nonreduction Of Yards Or Lots: No yard or lot existing at the time of
passage of this title shall be reduced in dimension or area below the minimum
requirements set forth in this title. Yards or lots created after the effective
date hereof shall meet at least the minimum requirements established by this
title. No building in any zoning district shall hereby be erected or
structurally altered if the lot is below the minimum square footage
requirements for that district.
   E.    Zoning Upon Annexation: All territory which may hereafter be annexed
to the city shall be considered to be zoned transition zone (TZ) until such
time as the zoning designation is changed by action of the city council.
   F.    Official Zoning Map: According to the provisions of this title, the
city is hereby divided into districts as shown on the official zoning map,
which together with all related and supporting information is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be part of this zoning ordinance. The official zoning
map shall be posted and made available for examination at the Hawley city hall.
The official zoning map shall be the final authority as to the current zoning
status of land, buildings, and other structures located in the city.
It shall be the responsibility of the zoning official to maintain and update
the official zoning map and to record each amendment thereto within thirty (30)
days after the official publication of an ordinance approving an amendment. No
unauthorized changes shall be made to the official zoning map or information
shown thereon except in conformity with the procedures set forth in this title.
The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the mayor,
attested by the city clerk treasurer, and bearing the seal of the city of
Hawley under the following words: "This is the Official Zoning Map of the City
of Hawley, Minnesota", together with the date of adoption of this title.
In the event that the official zoning map becomes damaged, destroyed, lost, or
difficult to interpret because of the nature or number of changes and
additions, the city council may by resolution adopt a new official zoning map.
The new map may correct drafting errors or omissions which may have appeared in
the prior map, but such corrections shall not have the effect of amending or
changing the original zoning ordinance or any subsequent amendment. (Ord. 230,
5-6-2002)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
10-2-1: Rules; Definitions
10-2-1: RULES; DEFINITIONS:
   A.    Rules: For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms used
herein shall be interpreted as follows:
      1.    The word "person" includes an owner or representative of the owner,
firm, association, organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation as
well as an individual.
      2.    The present tense includes the future tense, the singular includes
the plural, the plural includes the singular.
      3.    The word "shall" is mandatory, the word "may" is permissive.
   B.    Rules Of Interpretation: The following rules shall apply to the
interpretation of this title:
      1.    Singular includes the plural, and plural includes the singular.
      2.    A person includes any individual or married couple, and any legally
established corporation, trust, or other entity capable of property ownership.
      3.    Whenever a term appears in this title, which is defined by this
section of this title, such definition shall apply unless a different
definition is provided in the same paragraph as that in which the term appears.
      4.    If a term is not defined by this section or within the same
paragraph as the term appears, common rules of ordinary English language usage
interpretation shall apply. This shall include interpretation according to the
meaning of the term as it is defined in the Webster's Unabridged Dictionary
(fourth addition) which most appropriately fits the context.
      5.    Whenever the meaning of a term not defined by this section or
within the same paragraph as the term appears is debated as part of the
consideration for a particular decision before the planning commission or the
board of adjustment, as the case may be, the planning commission or board of
adjustment shall determine the definition to be applied, and such definition
shall be entered into the findings and minutes of the meeting.
   C.    Definitions: Wherever the following words and terms occur in this
title they shall be interpreted as herein defined:
ABUTTING: Making contact with another property.
ACCESSORY BUILDING OR USE: A building or use which:
      1.    Is subordinate to and serves a principal building or principal use;
      2.    Is subordinate in area, extent, or purpose to the principal
building or principal use served;
      3.    Contributes to the comfort, convenience, or necessity of occupants
of the principal building or principal use; and
      4.    Is located on the same zoning lot as the principal building or
principal use. Examples of accessory uses are private garages, storage sheds,
playhouses, and swimming pools.
ADDITION: A physical enlargement of an existing structure.
AGRICULTURE: The use of land for agricultural purposes, including farming,
dairying, pasturage agriculture, floriculture, viticulture, and animal and
poultry husbandry and the necessary accessory uses for packing, treating, or
storing the produce; provided, however, that the operation of any such
accessory uses shall be secondary to that of normal agricultural activities.
ALLEY: A public right of way primarily designed to serve as secondary access to
the side or rear of those properties whose principle frontage is on the street.
AMUSEMENT PARK: The permanent use for the purpose of providing a variety of
amusement facilities to the public for compensation either in the form of
admission fees and/or fees for use of separate amusement facilities.
ANIMAL SHELTER: Any lot or premises, not a kennel, in which strayed or
abandoned animals are cared for on a temporary basis until claimed, adopted, or
euthanized.
ANTENNA: Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
transmitting electromagnetic waves, including, but not limited to, directional
antennas, such as panels, microwave dishes, and omnidirectional antennas, such
as whip antennas.
APARTMENT: A portion of a building consisting of a room or suite of rooms which
is designed for, intended for, or used as a residence by a single family or an
individual, and is equipped with cooking facilities. Includes dwelling unit and
efficiency unit.
APARTMENT BUILDING: Three (3) or more dwelling units or apartments grouped in
one building.
APPLICANT: The owner, their agent or person having legal control, ownership
and/or interest in land for whom the provisions of this title are being
considered or reviewed.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR GARAGE: A place where the following services for automobiles
may be carried out: sale of engine fuels; general repair; engine rebuilding;
rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision service, such as
body, frame or fender straightening and repair; painting and undercoating of
automobiles.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR–MAJOR: General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning engines,
motor vehicles, or trailers; collision service, including body, frame or fender
straightening or repair; overall painting or paint job; vehicle steam cleaning.
AUTOMOBILE REPAIR–MINOR: Minor repairs, incidental body and fender work,
painting and upholstering, replacement of parts and motor services to passenger
automobiles and trucks not exceeding twelve thousand (12,000) pounds gross
weight, but not including any operation specified under the definition of
"Automobile Repair-Major".
AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE YARD: The dismantling or wrecking of used motor vehicles or
trailers, or the storage, sale, or dumping of dismantled or wrecked vehicles or
their parts. The presence on any lot or parcel of land of two (2) or more motor
vehicles, which, for a period exceeding thirty (30) days, have not been capable
of operating under their own power and from which parts have been or are to be
removed for reuse or sale, shall constitute prima facie evidence of an
automobile wrecking yard.
AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION: A place where gasoline, kerosene or any other motor
fuel, lubricating oil or grease for operating motor vehicles is offered for
sale to the public and deliveries are made directly into motor vehicles. This
definition includes greasing and oiling and the sale of automobile accessories
on the premises. This definition also includes minor repairs, replacement of
parts and motor services to passenger automobiles.
AUTOMOBILE WRECKING OR JUNK YARD: Any place where two (2) or more vehicles not
in running condition and/or not licensed, or parts thereof, are stored in the
open and are not being restored to operation or any land, building, or
structure used for wrecking or storing of such motor vehicles or parts thereof;
including any commercial salvaging and scavenging of any other goods, articles,
or merchandise. See also definitions of Junkyard and Salvage Yard.
BASEMENT: That portion of a building between below grade floor and first
ceiling, which is partly below and partly above grade, but so located that the
vertical distance from grade to the floor below is more than the vertical
distance from grade to ceiling. See definitions of Cellar and Story.
BAY: Cantilevered area of a room.
BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT: A single-family dwelling in which four (4) or
fewer transient guestrooms are rented on a nightly basis for periods of time
less than a week and where at least one meal is offered in connection with the
provision of sleeping accommodations only.
BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT: The local body appointed by the city council of Hawley,
whose responsibility is to hear appeals from decisions of the zoning official.
BOARDER: One who receives regular meals and/or regular meals and lodging for
pay.
BOARDING (HOUSE) HOME–FOSTER CHILDREN: A family dwelling where parental care is
provided by a family for children not related by blood or legal ties.
BOARDING (LODGING) HOUSE: A building other than a hotel where, for compensation
and by prearrangement for definite periods meals and/or lodging are provided to
three (3) or more persons, not of the principal family therein, pursuant to
previous arrangements and not to anyone who may apply, but not including a
building providing these services for more than ten (10) persons.
BOUNDARY LINES: Any line indicating the bounds or limits of any tract or parcel
of land; also a line separating the various use districts as shown on the
city's zoning map.
BUFFER: The use of land, topography, difference in elevation, space or fences
or landscape plantings to screen or partially screen a use or property from the
vision of another use or property.
BUILDABLE AREA: The space remaining on a lot after the minimum setback and open
space requirements of this title have been met and minus any easements covering
the remaining space.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattel or movable property of any kind, and includes any structure.
BUILDING CODE: The building code adopted by the state of Minnesota.
BUILDING HEIGHT: The vertical distance measured from:
      1.    The elevation of the highest adjoining sidewalk or ground surface
within a five foot (5') horizontal distance of the exterior wall of the
building when such sidewalk or ground surface is not more than ten feet (10')
above lowest grade; or
      2.    An elevation ten feet (10') higher than the lowest grade when the
sidewalk or ground surface described in this definition, is more than ten feet
(10') above the lowest grade up to the highest point of the parapet surrounding
a flat surface of a flat roof with a parapet less than one foot (1') in height,
to the deck lines of a mansard roof, or to the mean height level between eaves
and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof.
The height of a stepped or terrace building is the maximum height of any
segment of the building.
BUILDING LINE: A line parallel to the street right of way at any story level of
a building and representing the minimum distance which all or any part of the
building is set back from said right of way.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: Representatives of the city who have been appointed by the
city council and/or assigned the responsibility of enforcing provisions of this
title.
BUILDING SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between the building and the
lot line.
BUSINESS: Any establishment, occupation, employment, enterprise, or service
offered for compensation.
CAMPGROUND: An area or tract of land on which accommodations for temporary
occupancy are located or may be placed, including cabins, tents, and major
recreational equipment, and which is primarily used for recreational purposes
and retains an open air or natural character.
CANNABIS: The words and phrases and definitions contained in section
3-9-2 of this Code and Minn. Stat. 342.01, and the rules promulgated pursuant
to any of these acts, shall have the same meanings in this code.
CARPORT: A canopy supported by posts either ornamental or solid and completely
open on one or more sides.
CELLAR: That portion of a building between the floor and ceiling which is
wholly or partly below grade and is so located that the vertical distance from
grade to the floor is equal or greater than the vertical distance from grade to
ceiling.
CEMETERY: A site or property set apart for the burial or interment of the dead.
CERTIFIED MASSAGE THERAPIST: An individual or person over the age of eighteen
(18) who practices or administers massage and has completed a course of study
at a school of massage, that is approved by the American Massage Therapy
Association and is a member of the American Massage Therapy Association.
CHANNEL: A natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent, with
definite bed and banks to confine and conduct water either continuously or
periodically.
CHILDCARE FACILITY (COMMERCIAL): A building or structure where care, protection
and supervision are provided for a fee, on a regular schedule and in compliance
with state of Minnesota childcare licensing regulations (department of human
services rule 9503).
CHILDCARE FACILITY (RESIDENTIAL): A private residence where care, protection,
and supervision are provided, for a fee and on a regular schedule, and in
compliance with state of Minnesota childcare licensing regulations (department
of human services rule 9502).
CHURCH: A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship.
CITY: City of Hawley.
CITY COUNCIL: City council of Hawley, Minnesota.
CLINIC: Any establishment where human patients are examined and treated by
doctors or dentists but not hospitalized overnight.
CLUB OR LODGE: A nonprofit association of persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues, with the use of the premises being restricted to members
and their guests. It shall be permissible to serve food and meals on such
premises, provided that adequate dining space and kitchen facilities are
available.
COMMERCIAL RECREATION: Bowling alley, cart track, jump center, golf, billiards
(pool) hall, vehicle racing or amusement, dance hall, skating, trampoline,
firearms range, boat rental, amusement rides, campgrounds, park and similar
uses.
COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES: Licensed commercial wireless
telecommunication services including cellular, personal communication services
(PCS), specialized mobilized radio (SMR), enhanced specialized mobilized radio
(ESMR), paging, and similar services that are marketed to the general public.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: Any open space including private parks, nature areas,
playgrounds, trails, and recreational buildings and structures, which is an
integral part of a development and is not owned on an individual basis by each
owner of the dwelling unit.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: Unless otherwise stated, it is the general plan for land
use, housing, transportation and community facilities prepared and maintained
by the city council for the municipality.
CONDITIONAL USE: A use other than those permitted which must meet certain
conditions to ensure compatibility with the land uses in a district before such
a use may be approved and permitted with the city council.
CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT: A permit issued by the city council in accordance with
procedures specified in this title, as a flexibility device to enable the city
council to assign dimensions to a proposed use or conditions surrounding it
after consideration of adjacent uses and their functions and the special
problems which the proposed use presents.
CONDOMINIUM: A development or a structure housing two (2) or more dwelling
units which are individually owned and which have jointly owned and shared
areas and facilities, which dwelling or development is subject to the
provisions of the Minnesota condominium law, Minnesota statutes, sections
515.A1-101 to 515.A.4-118.
COOPERATIVE (HOUSING): A multiple-family dwelling owned and maintained by the
residents and subject to the provisions of Minnesota statutes 290.09 and
290.13. The entire structure and real property are under common ownership as
contrasted to a condominium dwelling where individual units are under separate
individual ownership.
COURT: An unoccupied open space other than a yard which is bounded on three (3)
or more sides by the walls of buildings.
CURB LEVEL: The elevation of the established curb in front of a building
measured at the center of such front. Where no curb has been established, the
city engineer shall determine a curb level or its equivalent for the purposes
of this title.
DAYCARE FACILITY: Any facility licensed by the Minnesota state department of
public welfare, public or private, which for a fee or other compensation
regularly provides one or more persons with care, training, supervision,
rehabilitation or developmental guidance on a regular basis, for periods of
less than twenty four (24) hours per day, in a place other than in the person's
home. Daycare facilities include, but are not limited to: commercial and
residential childcare facilities, daycare centers, day nurseries, nursery
schools, daytime activity centers, and adult daycare facilities. See definition
of childcare facility.
DENSITY, RESIDENTIAL: A number expressing the relationship of the number of
dwellings to an acre of land.
DIVERSION: A channel that intercepts surface water runoff and that changes the
accustomed course of all or part of a stream.
DRAINING: The removal of surface water or ground water from land.
DREDGING: To enlarge or clean out a water body, watercourse, or wetland.
DRIVE IN RESTAURANT: Any place or premises used for sale, dispensing or serving
of food, refreshments, or beverages on the premises, typically in the
customer's vehicle, however, including those establishments where customers may
consume food and beverages on the premises.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, designated exclusively for residential
occupancy, including one-family, two- family, and multiple-family dwellings,
but not including hotels, motels or boarding houses.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A residence designed for or occupied by two (2) or
more families living independently of each other, with separate housekeeping
and cooking facilities for each unit.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A residence designed for or occupied by one family
only.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A residence designed for or occupied by two (2) families
only, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each. This would
include single-family homes with an apartment in the basement. A two-family
dwelling (duplex) with a rooming unit(s) shall be considered and classified as
a multi- family dwelling.
DWELLING UNIT: A residential building or portion thereof intended for occupancy
by one or more persons with facilities for living, sleeping, cooking and
eating, but not including hotels, motels, nursing homes, seasonal cabins,
boarding or rooming houses, tourist homes or trailers.
DWELLING UNIT, EFFICIENCY: Any one room unit having cooking facilities and used
for combined living, dining, and sleeping purposes.
EARTH SHELTERED BUILDING: A building so constructed that fifty percent (50%) or
more of the completed structure is covered with earth. Earth covering is
measured from the lowest level of the liveable space in residential units and
of useable space in nonresidential buildings. An earth sheltered building is a
complete structure that does not serve just as a foundation or substructure for
above grade construction. A partially completed building shall not be
considered earth sheltered.
EASEMENT: A grant by an owner of land for a specific use by persons other than
the owner.
ELDERLY (SENIOR CITIZEN) HOUSING: A multiple dwelling built with open occupancy
limited to persons over sixty (60) years of age, or where not more than ten
percent (10%) of the occupants may be persons under the age of sixty (60).
ENGINEER OF CITY OR CITY ENGINEER: The registered engineer employed or retained
by the city, unless otherwise stated.
EROSION: The wearing away of land surface by the action of natural elements.
ESSENTIAL SERVICE STRUCTURES: Structures and buildings necessary for the
operation of essential services, including, but not limited to: telephone
buildings, telephone booths, gas regulator stations, substations, electrical
stations, water tanks and lift stations.
ESSENTIAL SERVICES: The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies of underground or
overhead communication, gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or
distribution systems, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduit cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants,
street signs, and other similar equipment and accessories in connection
therewith, reasonably necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies or for the public
health or safety or general welfare.
EXTERIOR STORAGE: The storage of goods, materials, equipment, manufactured
products and similar items not fully enclosed by a building.
FAMILY: An individual or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage,
adoption or a group of not more than four (4) persons who need not be related
by blood or marriage living together in a dwelling unit.
FARM: An unplatted tract of land having ten (10) acres or more, or two (2) or
more abutting parcels under the same ownership having an area of approximately
ten (10) acres, measured from the centerline of abutting roads, for purposes of
residential density usually with a house and barn and other buildings on which
crops and often livestock are raised for a source of livelihood.
FARM, HOBBY: An unplatted piece of land generally consisting of ten (10) or
less acres in size with a house and accessory buildings on which crops and
often livestock are raised but not as a principal source of income. A hobby
farm shall not qualify for exemptions provided in this title for farms.
FARMING: Process of operating a farm for the growing and harvesting of crops
which shall include those necessary buildings, related to operating the farm,
and keeping of common domestic farm animals.
FARMSTEAD: A dwelling unit surrounded by or connected to farm buildings, all
under single ownership.
FEEDLOT, COMMERCIAL: The place of confined feeding of livestock or other
animals for food, fur, pleasure, or resale purposes in yards, lots, pens,
buildings, or other areas not normally used for pasture or crops and in which
substantial amounts of manure or related other wastes may originate by reason
of such feeding of animals.
FENCE: Any partition, structure, wall or gate erected as a dividing mark,
barrier or enclosure.
FILLING: The act of depositing or regrading any rock, soil, gravel, sand or
other material so as to fill a water body, watercourse or wetland.
FLOOD RELATED: A list of flood zones for all property within the Hawley city
limits by the flood insurance study as prepared for the city by the federal
emergency management agency and dated March 16, 1981.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The sum of the gross horizontal area of all the floors of a
building utilized for principal and accessory uses.
GARAGE, PARKING: A building or portion of a building, except any herein defined
as a private garage or as an automotive repair garage, used for the storage of
motor vehicles or where any such vehicles are kept and in which the sale of
gasoline, oil and accessories is only incidental to the principal use.
GARAGE, PRIVATE: An accessory building or accessory portion of the principal
building which is intended for and used to store the private passenger vehicles
and noncommercial trucks not exceeding twelve thousand (12,000) pounds' gross
weight, of the family or families resident upon the premises, and which no
business service or industry is carried on except for home occupations.
GARAGE, STORAGE: Any premises, except those described as a private or public
garage, used exclusively for the storage of motor driven vehicles.
GAS STATION: See definition of Automobile Service Station.
GRADING: Changing the natural or existing topography of land.
GROUP HOME FOR THE DISABLED: A dwelling shared by four (4) or more disabled
persons, including resident staff, who live together as a single housekeeping
unit and in a long term, family like environment in which staff persons provide
care, education, and participation in community activities for the residents
with the primary goal of enabling the resident to live as independently as
possible in order to reach their maximum potential.
As used herein, the term "disabled" shall mean having:
      1.    A physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or
more of such person's major life activities so that such person is incapable of
living independently;
      2.    A record of having such an impairment; or
      3.    Being regarded as having such an impairment. However, "disabled"
shall not include current illegal use of or addiction to a controlled
substance, nor shall it include any person whose residency in the home would
constitute a direct threat to the health and safety of other individuals. The
term "group home for the disabled" shall not include alcoholism or drug
treatment center, work release facilities for convicts or ex-convicts, or other
housing facilities serving as an alternative to incarceration.
GUESTROOM: A room occupied by one or more guests for compensation and in which
no provision is made for cooking, but not including rooms in a dormitory for
sleeping purposes primarily.
HALFWAY HOUSE: See definition of Residential Facility.
HEALTH CLUB: A facility which provides to the public athletic activities such
as tennis, handball, racquetball, track, basketball, exercise devices, etc.,
and such incidental services as whirlpool, sauna or massage services for
members and guests.
HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation or profession engaged in by the occupant of a
residential dwelling unit, which is clearly incidental and secondary to the
residential use of the premises and does not change the character of said
premises.
HOTEL: Any building or portion thereof occupied as the more or less temporary
abiding place of individuals and containing six (6) or more guestrooms, used,
designated, or intended to be used, let or hired out to be occupied, or which
are occupied by six (6) or more individuals for compensation, whether the
compensation be paid directly or indirectly.
HOUSING SHELTER–TEMPORARY HOUSING: A facility operated by the public or a
nonprofit charitable group or institution which provides one or more transient/
homeless persons with lodging and meals for short periods of time in a place
other than a person's own home.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: An artificial or natural surface through which water, air
or roots cannot penetrate.
JUNKYARD: An open area where waste, used or secondhand materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, dissembled or handled; including, but
not limited to, scrap iron and other materials, paper rags, rubber tires,
lumber and bottles. A junkyard includes an auto wrecking yard, but does not
include uses established entirely within closed buildings nor sanitary
landfills. See also definitions of Automobile Wrecking Or Junk Yard and Salvage
Yard.
KENNEL: Any lot, premises, dwelling or dwelling unit in which four (4) or more
dogs over the age of six (6) months are kept, harbored, owned or otherwise
possessed, either on a commercial basis or scale for boarding or breeding, or
on a private basis for personal use, enjoyment or profit. Kennel shall also
include the commercial boarding of any permitted animal in the city other than
at pet shops, veterinary clinics or animal shelters.
LANDSCAPING: Planting, such as trees, flowers, grass, shrubs, and may include
the reshaping of the land by moving earth or other physical improvements.
LIVEABLE SPACE: That area in a single-family or twin home residential structure
that is suitable for year round occupancy. This shall not include a basement or
cellar unless such area is completely finished and there is a walkout entrance;
nor shall it include three (3) season areas such as decks, breezeways or
porches.
LIVESTOCK: Any farm animals or poultry or other fowl (for commercial sale). Not
dogs, cats, or exotic or dangerous animals.
LOADING SPACE: A space or berth on the same lot with a building, or contiguous
to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle
while loading or unloading merchandise or materials and which abuts upon a
street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
LODGING ROOM: A room rented as a sleeping and living quarters, but without
cooking facilities and with or without an individual bathroom. In a suite of
rooms without cooking facilities, each room which provides sleeping
accommodations shall be counted as one lodging room.
LOT: A parcel or portion of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum
zoning requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and
other open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an
improved public street.
LOT AREA: The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot exclusive of
any portion of the right of way of any public roadway.
LOT, BASE: Lots meeting all specifications in the zoning district prior to
being subdivided into a two-family dwelling.
LOT COVERAGE: Determined by dividing that area of a lot which is occupied or
covered by the total horizontal projected surface of all buildings, including
covered porches and accessory buildings, by the gross area of the lot.
LOT DEPTH: Lot depths shall be considered to be the distance between the
midpoint of straight lines connecting the foremost points of the side lot lines
in front and the rearmost points of the side lot lines in the rear.
LOT, FRONT: The front of a lot shall be considered to be that boundary abutting
a public street.
      1.    In a through lot the front of the lot will be on the street the
principal building faces and/or has the main entrance.
      2.    In a residential corner lot, the front lot is the one that has the
main house entrance.
      3.    On a commercial or industrial corner lot, the front lot is the one
that faces the main public street and may have the main building entrance.
LOT IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, place, work of art or other object,
or improvement of the land on which it is situated, a physical betterment of
real property, or any part of such betterment.
LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot held in single or separate
ownership; except that where any portion of the lot extends into the abutting
street or alley, the lot line shall be deemed to be the street or alley right
of way.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street. (For corner lots, see also definition of Yard Type.)
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line. If
the rear lot line is less than ten feet (10') in length, or if the lot forms a
point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be a line ten feet (10') in length
within the lot, parallel to, and at the maximum distance from the front lot
line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or rear lot
line.
LOT OF RECORD: Any lot which is one unit of a plat heretofore duly approved and
filed, or one unit of an auditor's outlot or a registered land survey, or a
parcel of land not so platted, subdivided or registered but for which a deed,
auditor's subdivision or registered land survey has been recorded in the office
of the register of deeds or registrar of ordinances for Clay County, Minnesota,
prior to the effective date hereof.
LOT, SUBSTANDARD: A lot or parcel of land for which a deed has been recorded in
the office of the Clay County recorder upon or prior to the effective date
hereof which does not meet the minimum lot area, structure setbacks or other
dimensional standards of this title.
LOT TYPES: 1. Corner Lot: A lot which occupies the interior angle at the
intersection of two (2) street lines which make an angle of less than one
hundred thirty five degrees (135°) with each other.
      2.    Interior Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage
on a street other than an alley.
      3.    Double Frontage Or Through Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with
frontage on more than one street other than an alley.
      4.    Reversed Frontage Lot: A lot in which the frontage is at right
angles, or approximately right angles, to the general pattern in the area
involved. A reversed frontage lot may be a corner lot or an interior lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5d8b6c812b54ecf4bde8462623e61d88d4e5afe7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-864.gif]
LOT WIDTH: The distance between the side lot lines, measured along the setback
line as established by this title, or if no setback line is established, the
distance between the side lot lines along the measured street line.
MANUFACTURED BUILDING: A manufactured building (or prefabricated structure) is
any structure manufactured in accordance with the requirements of the Minnesota
prefabricated structures and manufactured building code promulgated in
accordance with Minnesota statutes sections 16.852 and 16B.61 (state building
code).
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which in
the traveling mode is eight feet (8') or more in width or forty (40) body feet
or more in length or, when erected on site, is three hundred twenty (320) or
more square feet, and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be
used as a dwelling with or without permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities, and included the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and
electrical systems contained therein, except that the term includes any
structure which meets all the requirements and with respect to which the
manufacturer voluntarily filed a certification required by the secretary of the
United States department of housing and urban development and complies with the
standards established under this title. In floodway and flood fringe overlay
districts, a manufactured home means a structure, transportable in one or more
sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.
MANUFACTURED HOME LOT: A section of ground in a manufactured home park
designated as the location of one housing unit, and all other necessary
improvements required by this title.
MANUFACTURED HOME PARK: Any park, court, lot, parcel, or tract of land,
designed, improved, maintained or intended for the purpose of supplying a
location for manufactured home units or upon which any manufactured homes are
parked. It shall include all buildings used or intended for use as part of the
equipment thereof, whether a charge is made for the use of the manufactured
home park or not. Also referred to as mobile home park or trailer park.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING: A factory built, single-family, detached housing unit
that is manufactured according to the national manufactured housing
construction and safety standards act of 1974 and shall include manufactured
homes or mobile homes.
MASSAGE: The rubbing, stroking, kneading, tapping, or rolling of the body with
the hands for the exclusive purpose of relaxation, physical fitness, or
beautification and for no other purposes. It is administered, for a fee, by a
certified massage therapist.
MASSAGE PARLOR: A place where the practice of massage is carried out.
MEDICAL AND DENTAL CLINICS: A structure intended for providing medical and
dental examinations and service available to the public. This service is
provided without overnight care available.
METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION: A description of real property which is not
described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by
starting at a known point and describing the bearings and distances of the
lines forming the boundaries of the property or delineating a fractional
portion of a section, lot or area by describing lines or portions thereof.
MOBILE HOME: Any type of potentially mobile structure which is designed,
constructed and equipped for use as a single-family dwelling unit suitable for
year round occupancy, not drawn by its own power, but with its own permanently
attached metal frame undercarriage to which wheels may be attached.
MOBILE HOME STAND: That part of an individual mobile home lot which has been
reserved for placement of the mobile home, appurtenant structures, or addition.
MOTEL/MOTOR HOTEL: A building or group of detached, semidetached or attached
buildings containing guestrooms or units, each of which has a separate entrance
directly from the outside of the building, or corridor, with garage or parking
space conveniently located next to each unit, and used or intended to be used
primarily for the accommodation of transient guests traveling by automobile.
MOTOR FREIGHT TERMINAL: A building or area in which freight brought by motor
truck is assembled and/or stored for routing in intrastate or interstate
shipment by motor truck.
MOTOR FUEL STATION: A place where motor fuels, kerosene or motor oil and
lubricants or grease, for operation of automobiles, are retailed directly to
the public on premises, including minor accessories and service for
automobiles, and one stall car washes provide at least three (3) stacking
spaces for cars, but not including automobile major repairs and rebuilding.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE, USE OR LOT; ILLEGAL: A building, structure, premises,
lot or use unlawfully established and in violation of regulations applicable at
the time of development or initiation.
NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE, USE OR LOT; LEGAL: A building, structure, premises,
lot or use lawfully established prior to the adoption of this title or any
amendment thereto which does not now conform with the applicable conditions or
provisions of this title for the district in which the structure or use is
located.
NOXIOUS MATTER OR MATERIAL: Material capable of causing injury to living
organisms by chemical reaction, or capable of causing detrimental effects on
the physical or economic well being of individuals.
NURSERY, LANDSCAPE: A business growing and selling trees, flowering and
decorative plants and shrubs.
NURSING HOME: A private building with facilities for the care of children, the
aged, or the infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders,
but not containing equipment for surgical care or for treatment of disease or
injury. The nursing home shall be licensed by the state board of health as
provided for in Minnesota state statutes.
OCCUPANCY: The purpose for which a building is used or intended to be used. The
term shall also include the building or room housing such use. Change of
occupancy is not intended to include change of tenants or proprietors.
OPEN SALES LOT: Land devoted to the display of goods for purchase, sale, rent,
lease or trade where such goods are not enclosed within a building, and for the
storage of the same prior to sale.
OPEN SPACE: Any open area not covered by structures, but not limited to the
following uses: required or established yard areas, parking areas, sidewalks,
trails, recreation areas, water bodies, shore lands, watercourses, wetlands,
ground water recharge areas, floodplain, floodway, flood fringe, erodible
slopes, woodland and soils with severe limitation for development.
OPEN STORAGE: Storage of material outside building.
OUTDOOR CAMPING: The use of a tent, trailer, or "recreational vehicle", as
defined by the city of Hawley zoning ordinance, that is used for human
occupation on a temporary or seasonal basis; is not contingent on the
availability or provision of washing and toilet facilities.
OUTLOT: A lot or parcel of real property, reserved for future building or
occupancy which may require platting.
OUTPATIENT CARE: Medical examination or service available to the public in a
hospital. This service is provided without overnight care and shall be
considered a separate, independent, principal use when combined or operated in
conjunction with a hospital.
OVERBURDEN: The earth, rock, and other minerals that lie above a natural
deposit of mineral.
OWNER: An individual, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust
or any other legal ownership interest in land buildings, structures, dwelling
unit(s) or other property.
PARCEL: An individual lot or tract of land.
PARKING SPACE, OFF STREET: An off street parking space as specified in the off
street parking requirements section of this title. Space for maneuvering
incidental to parking or unparking shall not encroach upon any public way.
Every off street parking space shall be accessible from a public way.
PARTY WALL: A common wall which divides two (2) independent structures.
PERFORMANCE STANDARD: Criterion established for setbacks, fencing, landscaping,
screening, drainage, accessory buildings, outside storage and to control noise,
odor, toxic or noxious matter, vibration, fire and explosive hazards, or glare
or heat or other nuisance elements generated by or inherent in uses of land or
buildings.
PERMITTED USE: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular district
or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations and
performance standards (if any) of such districts.
PERSON: Any individual or legal entity.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Hawley planning commission.
POLE BUILDINGS: Any structure possessing the following characteristics:
structural wood poles or timbers buried inground on individual footings; metal
wall coverings hung vertically of less than 28-gauge. Such definition shall not
include or apply to decks, sign supports, earth retention structures,
playground equipment, electric utilities or any similar structure not covering
or enclosing a specific area.
PREFABRICATED HOME: See definition of Manufactured Home.
PREFABRICATED STRUCTURE: See definition of Manufactured Building.
PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE: The structure in which the primary use of the lot on which
the structure is located is conducted.
PRINCIPAL USE: The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory uses. A "principal use" may be either permitted or
conditional.
PROTECTIVE COVENANTS: Contracts entered into between owners and holders of
mortgages constituting a restriction on the use of property within a
subdivision for the benefit of the property owners.
PUBLIC: Pertaining to municipal, school district, county, state or other
governmental units.
PUBLIC USES: Uses owned or operated by municipal, school districts, county,
state or other governmental units.
PUBLIC WATERS: Any waters of the state which serve a beneficial public purpose,
as defined in Minnesota statutes 1974, section 105.37, subdivision 6, not
including, however, a lake, pond or flowage of less than ten (10) acres in size
or a river stream having a total drainage area less than two (2) square miles.
In addition, bodies of water created by private users, where there was not
previous shore land (for a designated private use authorized by the
commissioner of natural resources) shall also not be considered public waters.
The official determination of the size and physical limits of the drainage
areas of rivers and streams shall be made by the commissioner of natural
resources. The official size of lakes, ponds or flowage shall be the area
listed in the division of waters, soils and minerals bulletin 25, An Inventory
of Minnesota Lakes, or in the event that lakes, ponds or flowage are not listed
therein, official determination of size and physical limits shall be made by
the commissioner in cooperation with the city of Hawley.
PUBLICATION: Notice placed in the official city newspaper stating time,
location and date of meeting and description of topic.
RECREATION FIELD OR BUILDING: An area of land, water or any building in which
amusement, recreation or athletic sports are provided for public or semipublic
use, whether temporary or permanent, except a theater, whether provision is
made for the accommodation of an assembly or not. A golf course, arena,
baseball park, stadium, circus or gymnasium is a recreation field or building
for the purpose of this title.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: Manufactured homes less than thirty feet (30') in overall
length, including those with telescope or fold down, chassis, mounted campers,
house cars, motor homes, tent trailers, slip in campers (those mounted in a
pickup truck or similar vehicle), converted buses and converted vans used
primarily for recreational purposes. Cars used for racing shall not be included
within this definition. See definition of Travel Trailer.
RECYCLING FACILITY: A facility in which recoverable resources, such as
newspaper, glass, and metal are collected, separated and processed prior to
shipment to others who will use those materials to manufacture new products.
RESIDENTIAL FACILITY: Any facility licensed by the state department of health
or department of public welfare, public or private, which for gain or otherwise
regularly provides one or more persons with a twenty four (24) hour per day
substitute for care, food, lodging, training, education, supervision,
habilitation, rehabilitation, and treatment they need but which for any reason
cannot be furnished in the person's own home. Residential facilities include,
but are not limited to: state institutions under the control of the
commissioner of public welfare, foster homes, halfway houses, residential
treatment centers, maternity shelters, group homes, residential programs, or
schools for disabled children.
RESIDENTIAL PROGRAM/RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY: Any facility or program
providing twenty four (24) hour a day care, supervision, food, lodging,
rehabilitation, training, education, habilitation or treatment outside a
person's own home, including a nursing home or hospital that receives public
funds, administered by the commissioner, to provide services for five (5) or
more persons whose primary diagnosis is mental retardation or a related
condition or mental illness and who do not have a significant physical or
mental problem that necessitates nursing home care; a program in an
intermediate care facility for four (4) or more persons with mental retardation
or a related condition; a nursing home or hospital that was licensed by the
commissioner on July 1, 1987, to provide a program for persons with a physical
handicap that is not the result of the normal aging process and considered a
chronic condition; and chemical dependency or chemical abuse programs that are
located in a hospital or nursing home and receive public funds for providing
chemical abuse or chemical dependency treatment services under chapter 254B of
the Minnesota Statutes Annotated. Residential programs include home and
community based services and semiindependent living services for persons with
mental retardation or a related condition that are provided in or outside of a
person's home.
RESTAURANT: An establishment which serves food to be consumed primarily while
seated at tables or booths within the building.
RETAIL: The sale of items directly to the consumer.
RETIREMENT HOME: A retirement facility for the elderly who are generally in
good health and able to care for themselves. Such facilities are characterized
as having separate dwelling units or sleeping rooms with or without central
eating facilities. Such facilities do not contain health facilities for the
care of occupants. This definition shall include public housing for the
elderly.
ROOMER: One who rents a room and eats meals elsewhere.
ROOMING HOUSE: Any dwelling in which more than three (3) persons either
individually or as families are housed or lodged for hire, with or without
meals. A boarding house or furnished room house shall be deemed a "rooming
house".
ROOMING UNIT: A separate room providing minimum housing accommodations for a
tenant with direct access to the outside or access through a hallway to an
outside entrance, arranged primarily for sleeping and which may include a
private bath but shall not include any kitchen equipment such as a sink or
cooking device.
SALVAGE YARD: A place where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are bought,
sold, exchanged, baled, packed, disassembled or handled; including auto salvage
yards, house wrecking yards, and used material yards; but not including
pawnshops, antique shops, purchase as storage of used furniture and household
equipment, or the placing and sale of used cars in operable condition. See also
definition of Automobile Wrecking Or Junk Yard or Junkyard.
SATELLITE DISH: An antenna or dish antenna whose purpose is to receive
communication or other signals from orbiting satellites and other
extraterrestrial sources; and/or a low noise amplifier (LNA) which is situated
at the focal point of the receiving component and whose purpose is to magnify
and transfer signals.
SATELLITE DISH HEIGHT: The height of the antenna or dish measured vertically
from the highest point of the antenna or dish when positioned for operation, to
the tip of the foundation which supports the antenna.
SCHOOL: A building used for the purpose of elementary or secondary education,
which meets all the requirements of compulsory education laws of the state of
Minnesota, and not providing residential accommodations.
SEMIPUBLIC USE: Uses owned by private or private nonprofit organizations which
are open to some, but not all of the public, such as denominational cemeteries,
private schools, clubs, lodges, recreational facilities, churches, etc.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distances between a structure and the property
line nearest thereto. City boulevard area is not part of required setback.
Distances are to be measured from the most outwardly extended portion of the
structure at ground level, except as provided hereinafter.
SHOPPING CENTER: An integrated grouping of commercial stores, under single
ownership or control.
SIGN: Any letter, word, symbol, device, poster, picture, statuary, reading
matter of representation in the nature of an advertisement, announcement,
message or visual communication whether painted, pasted, printed, affixed or
constructed which is displayed outdoors for informational purposes. It shall
include, but not be limited to, the following types and purposes of signs:
advertising, area identification, business, directional, flashing,
freestanding, illuminated, institutional, nameplate, pylon, rotating, swinging,
temporary and traffic control.
SIGNS, OFF SITE: A sign other than an on site sign.
SIGNS, ON SITE: A sign relating in its subject matter to the premises on which
it is located, or to the products, accommodations, service or activities on the
premises. Not to include signs erected by the outdoor advertising industry in
the conduct of the outdoor advertising business.
SITE PLAN: A map drawn to scale depicting the development of a tract of land,
including, but not limited to, the location and relationship of structures,
streets, driveways, recreation areas, utilities, landscaping and walkways, off
street parking, as related to a proposed development.
SLOPE: The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal, usually
expressed in percent of degrees.
SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM: Any solar collector or other solar device or any
structural design of a building whose primary purpose is to collect, convert
and store solar energy for useful purposes including heating and cooling of
buildings, domestic water heating, electric power generation and other energy
using processes.
STACKING AREA: That area which allows for a line of vehicles in such instances
as drive up tellers and other vehicle service areas entirely off public streets
and rights of way.
STORY: That portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, including belowground
portions of earth sheltered buildings, except that the topmost story shall be
that portion of a building included between the uppermost surface of the
topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level
directly above a basement, or unused underfloor space is more than six feet
(6') above grade as defined herein for more than fifty percent (50%) of the
total perimeter or is more than twelve feet (12') above such grade as defined
herein at any point, such as basement or unused underfloor space shall be
considered as a story.
STREET: A public right of way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a
highway, thoroughfare, arterial, parkway, collector, throughway, road, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court or otherwise designated, which has been
dedicated to the public for public use and which affords principal means of
access to abutting property.
STREET LINE/RIGHT OF WAY: A line running the entire right of way width area of
street. Includes boulevard and surface.
STREET PAVEMENT: The wearing or exposed surface of a street or roadway used by
vehicular traffic.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the curb lines of a street.
STRUCTURAL ALTERATION: Any change, other than incidental repairs, which would
prolong, or modify the life of the supporting members of a building, such as
bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
STRUCTURE: Anything which is built, constructed or erected; an edifice or
building of any kind; or any piece of work artificially built up and/or
composed of parts joined together in some definite manner whether temporary or
permanent in character. Among other things, structures including buildings,
manufactured homes, walls, fences, towers, antennas, swimming pools, billboards
and poster panels.
SUPPLY YARDS: A commercial establishment storing or offering for sale building
supplies, steel supplies, coal, heavy equipment, feed and grain, and similar
goods. Supply yards do not include the wrecking, salvaging, dismantling or
storage of automobiles and similar vehicles.
SURVEY, CERTIFIED: A survey, map, and related report prepared by, or under the
direct supervision, of a registered land surveyor in the state of Minnesota.
SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered under Minnesota state laws.
SWIMMING POOL: A structure designed to be used for swimming which has the
capacity of five thousand (5,000) gallons or more which has a depth of over
twenty four inches (24").
TOWER: Any ground or roof mounted pole, spire, structure, or combination
thereof taller than fifteen feet (15'), including supporting lines, cables,
wires, braces and masts, intended primarily for the purpose of mounting an
antenna, meteorological device or similar apparatus above grade.
TOWN HOUSES: Structures housing two (2) or more dwelling units contiguous with
each other only by the sharing of one common wall between units and occupying
its own lot.
TRANSPORTATION TERMINAL: Taxi, air, train, bus and mass transit terminal and
storage areas.
TRAVEL TRAILER: Any vehicle or structure designed and used for human living
quarters which meets all of the following qualifications:
      1.    Is not used as the permanent residence of the owner or occupant;
      2.    Is used for temporary living quarters by the owner or occupant
while engaged in recreational or vacation activities;
      3.    Is towed or otherwise transported, by its own or by other motive
power on the public streets or highways incidental to such recreational or
vacation activity.
The term trailer shall not include mobile home. The term trailer shall include,
but not be limited to, campers, camper tents, house trailers, camping trailers,
travel trailers, tent trailers, motor homes, and any self-propelled vehicle
constructed to provide living accommodations.
TRUCK STOP: A motor fuel station devoted principally to the needs of trucks and
which may include eating and/or sleeping facilities.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained, and shall include the performance of such activity as defined by
the performance standards of this title.
USEABLE OPEN SPACE: A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which is
graded, developed, landscaped and equipped and intended and maintained for
either active or passive recreation or both, available to and useable by all
persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot and their guests.
VARIANCE: A variance is a relaxation of the terms of the zoning ordinance where
such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship. As used in this title, a variance is authorized only for
area, size of structure, size of yards, setback and side yard requirements, and
parking requirements; establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited
shall not be allowed by variance, nor shall a variance be granted because of
the presence of nonconformities in the zoning district or adjoining zoning
districts.
VETERINARY CLINIC: The uses concerned with the diagnosis, treatment, and care
of animals, including animal or pet hospitals.
WAREHOUSING: The storage of materials or equipment within an enclosed building.
WATERSHED: The area drained by the natural and artificial drainage system,
bounded peripherally by a bridge or stretch of high land dividing drainage
areas.
WETLANDS: An area where water stands near, at or above the soil surface during
a significant portion of most years, saturating the soil and supporting a
predominately aquatic form of vegetation, and which may have the following
characteristics:
      1.    Vegetation belonging to the marsh (emergent aquatic), bog, fen,
sedge meadow, shrub land, southern lowland forest (lowland hardwood), and
northern lowland forest (conifer swamp) communities. (These communities
correspond roughly to wetland types 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8 described by the
United States fish and wildlife services, circular 39, Wetlands of the U.S.
1956.)
      2.    Mineral soils with gley horizons or organic soils belonging to the
Histosol order (peat and muck).
      3.    Soil which is waterlogged or covered with water at least three (3)
months of the year.
Swamps, bogs, marshes, potholes, wet meadows and sloughs are wetlands, and such
property, may be shallow water bodies, the waters of which are stagnant or
actuated by very feeble currents, and may at times be sufficiently dry to
permit tillage, but would require drainage to be made arable. The edge of a
wetland is commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial.
WHOLESALING: The selling of goods, equipment and materials by bulk to another
business that in turn sells to the final customer.
WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS): Any device that is designed to convert
wind power to another form of energy such as electricity, mechanical, or heat
(also referred to as wind charger, wind turbine, or windmill).
YARD: An open space on the same lot with a building, unoccupied and
unobstructed by any portion of a structure from the ground upward, except as
otherwise provided herein. In measuring a yard for the purpose of determining
the width of a side yard, the mean horizontal distance between the lot line and
the main building shall be used.
YARD, DEPTH OF: The mean horizontal distance between the line of a building and
the lot line.
YARD, REQUIRED: That distance specified in the yard requirements pertaining to
setbacks. Setbacks and required yards are used interchangeably.
YARD TYPE: 1. Front Yard: The space extending between side lot lines from the
front property line and the building setback line.
      2.    Rear Yard: A space extending between the rear line of the principal
structure and the rear line of the lot and extending the full width of the lot.
      3.    Side Yard: A space between the building and the side line of the
lot and extending from the lot line to the rear yard. In the case of through
lots, side yards shall extend from the rear lines of the front yards required.
In the case of corner lots with normal frontage, there will be only one side
yard, adjacent to the interior lot. In the case of the corner lots with
reversed frontage, the yards remaining after the full and half depth front
yards have been established shall be considered to be side yards. Width of
required side yards shall be measured at right angles to a straight line
joining the ends of front and rear lot lines on the same side of the lot. The
inner side yard line of a required side yard shall be parallel to the straight
line so established.
      4.    Corner Lot Option:
   Commercial: Only one front yard is required on the side that faces the main
public street and may have the main building entrance. The remaining side may
use side lot setbacks provided no structure or visual impediment is constructed
within a distance of thirty five feet (35') from the intersection of the
property lines of the two (2) streets.
   Residential: If a corner lot has a boulevard area of fourteen feet (14') or
more, the front yard is the direction the main house entrance faces. The other
side may be treated as a side yard setback. (Traffic visibility must be
maintained with no extensions allowed into the side yard, i.e., deck, steps.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5d8b6c812b54ecf4bde8462623e61d88d4e5afe7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-866.gif]
ZERO LOT LINE: The reduction of side yard setback requirements to zero,
permitting the placement of a structure near or adjacent to the side yard lot
line. With zero lot line, no portion of the structure or accessory appurtenance
shall project over the lot line, unless easements are provided.
ZONING AMENDMENT: A change authorized by the city either in the allowed use
within a district or in the boundaries of the district.
ZONING DISTRICT: An area or areas of the city (as delineated on the zoning map)
set aside for specific uses with specific regulations and provisions for use
and development as defined by this title.
ZONING MAP: The map or maps incorporated into this title as part thereof,
designating the zoning districts.
ZONING OFFICIAL: The duly appointed officer charged with the administration and
enforcement of this title. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002; amd. Ord. 298, 5-19-2025)
CHAPTER 3
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
10-3-1: Administration; Enforcement
10-3-2: Nonconforming Lots, Uses And Structures
10-3-3: Conditional Use Permit
10-3-4: Amendments
10-3-5: Variances
10-3-6: Board Of Adjustment; Appeals
10-3-7: Fees, Charges, Fines, And Expenses
10-3-1: ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT:
   A.    Designated Zoning Official: The zoning official designated by the city
council, has authority granted by the city council, and is responsible for
enforcement, maintenance, and administration of the zoning ordinance and may be
provided with the assistance of other persons as authorized by the city
council. Specific duties include the following:
      1.    Process applications for zoning permits;
      2.    Process applications for zoning changes, zoning amendments,
conditional use permits;
      3.    Process applications for variances;
      4.    Update zoning map periodically to reflect zoning changes;
      5.    Prepare findings of the planning commission and board of appeals to
be submitted to the city council.
If the zoning official finds that any of the provisions of this title are being
violated, he/she shall notify the person responsible for such violation in
writing, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering the action
necessary to correct it. The zoning official shall order discontinuance of the
illegal use of land, buildings or structures; removal of illegal buildings or
structures, or of the additions, alterations or structural changes thereto;
discontinuance of any illegal work being done; or shall take any other action
authorized by this title to ensure compliance with or to prevent violation of
its provisions.
   B.    Zoning Permit: A zoning permit must be completed to ensure that all
provisions of the zoning ordinance are met when the applicant proposes to
construct a new structure, or to construct an expansion or addition to an
existing structure, or to construct an accessory building, or to move a
structure onto a lot. When a building is to be moved, it must also comply with
the provisions of section
10-5-3 of this title.
   C.    Application For Zoning Permit: Application forms are available at city
hall. Plans shall be drawn, showing the actual dimensions and shape of the lot
to be built upon; the exact sizes and locations on the lot of buildings already
existing, if any; and the location and dimensions of the proposed building or
alteration. The application shall include such other information as lawfully
may be required, including existing or proposed buildings or alterations;
existing or proposed uses of structures and land; existing or proposed parking;
the number of families, housekeeping units, or rental units the building is
designed to accommodate; conditions existing on the lot; and such other matters
as may be necessary to determine the conformance with, and provide for the
enforcement of, this title.
The permit will state and document the following conditions to be met prior to
approval:
      1.    Any person desiring to improve property shall submit an accurate
description of the property to be improved including front, rear and side yard
lot lines of buildings, location of easements crossing the property,
encroachments and any other information which may be necessary to ensure
conformance to city provisions.
      2.    A lot must be served with city water and sewer before a zoning
permit can be issued.
      3.    All buildings shall be placed so that they will not obstruct future
streets which may be constructed by the city in conformity with existing
streets and according to the system and standards employed by the city.
      4.    Not more than one principal building shall be located on a parcel.
      5.    All new residential and commercial construction or building
relocation of same will require that applicant provide a survey of the property
to the zoning official.
      6.    All "residential" construction must have a Minnesota licensed
contractor and provide proof of insurance when required by Minnesota law.
      7.    If any part of the lot is in or adjacent to the 100-year
floodplain, a certified elevation plan must be submitted. If lot is in
floodplain, applicant must also conform to title 11 of this code.
      8.    If any part of the lot is in or adjacent to wetlands, applicant
must also conform to title 11 of this code.
      9.    Building elevations will be governed by title 9, chapter 1 of this
code. The permit must document garage floor and structure elevation.
      10.    Building numbering will be governed by title 9, chapter 2 of this
code.
   D.    Time Frame For Permit Approval: An official zoning decision will be
made on permits within a sixty (60) day time frame. The sixty (60) day time
frame starts from the date the completed city application, all required
information, and fees are submitted to the zoning official. If the application
does not contain all information required by law or by a previously adopted
rule, ordinance or policy, the zoning official will provide written
notification within ten (10) business days telling the applicant "what
information is missing". The clock will restart on the sixty (60) days once the
information is received by the zoning official.
   E.    Extension Of Permit Approval Time Frame: The city may extend the sixty
(60) day limit for an additional sixty (60) days. The zoning official must give
the applicant written notice of the extension before the initial sixty (60) day
period ends. The written notice must indicate two (2) things: the reason for
the extension and the length of the extension (up to an additional 60 days).
Reasons for an extension may include, for example, the need for additional
staff review of complex issues or the need for additional public meetings or
planning commission review.
When state law requires the preparation of an environmental assessment
worksheet (EAW) or an environmental impact statement (EIS) the deadline is
extended until sixty (60) days after the review process is completed.
   F.    Copies Of Permit: A copy of the permit shall be returned to the
applicant, after such copy has been marked either approved or unapproved and
attested to same by the zoning official's signature on such copy. The original
copy of the permit shall be retained by the zoning official.
   G.    Expiration Of Zoning Permit: If the work described in any zoning
permit is not completed within twelve (12) months, said permit shall expire and
be null and void. It shall be canceled by the zoning official and written
notice thereof shall be given to the persons affected, together with notice
that further work as described in the canceled permit shall not proceed unless,
and until, a new zoning permit has been obtained.
   H.    Construction And Use To Be As Provided In Applications, Plans, And
Permits: Zoning permits issued on the basis of plans and applications approved
by the zoning official authorize only the use, arrangement, and construction
set forth in such approved plans and applications, and no other use,
arrangement, or construction. Use, arrangement, or construction which is at
variance with the approved zoning permit shall be a violation of this title.
   I.    Enforcement And Violations: The zoning ordinance shall be administered
and enforced by the zoning official. The zoning official may institute, in the
name of the city, any appropriate actions or proceedings against a violator as
provided by law or city ordinances. Failure to comply with a condition in a
conditional use permit shall be a violation of this title. Each day such
violation continues or occurs constitutes a separate offense and may be
prosecuted as such.
Zoning Permit Process
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5d8b6c812b54ecf4bde8462623e61d88d4e5afe7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-868.gif]
(Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-3-2: NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES AND STRUCTURES:
   A.    Intent: It shall be deemed nonconforming when, within the districts
established by this title or amendments that may later be adopted, there exists
lots, structures and uses of land and structures which where lawful before this
title was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or
restricted under the terms of this title or future amendments. This title
permits these nonconformities to continue until they are removed, but not to
encourage their survival. Such uses are declared by this title to be
incompatible with permitted uses in the districts involved. It is further the
intent of this title that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded
or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses not
permitted in the district.
Nothing herein contained shall require any change in plans, construction or
designated use of a building or structure for which a building permit has been
issued to prior to the effective date hereof, provided however, that the entire
building shall be completed according to such plans as filed within twelve (12)
months from the date of issuance of said permit.
   B.    Nonconforming Lots Of Record: In any district in which single- family
dwellings are permitted, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other
provisions of this title, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory
buildings may be erected on any single lot of record at the effective date
hereof provided that it fronts on a public right of way and provided, further,
that the lot area is at least eighty five percent (85%) of the minimum
requirements of this title. This provision shall apply provided that side yards
and front yard setbacks, and maximum lot coverage limits shall conform to the
regulations for the district in which such lot is located.
   C.    Nonconforming Uses Of Land: Where, at the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this title, lawful use of land exists that is made no longer
permissible under the terms of this title as enacted or amended, such use may
be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
      1.    No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or extended to occupy a
greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date hereof;
      2.    No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
hereof;
      3.    If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than six (6) months, any subsequent use of such land shall
conform to the regulations specified by this title for the district in which
such land is located.
   D.    Nonconforming Structures: Where a lawful structure exists at the
effective date hereof that could not be built under the terms of this title by
reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, elevation or other
characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, such structure may
be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
      1.    No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way that
increases its nonconformity; (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
      2.    Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of
more than fifty percent (50%) of its replacement cost at the time of
destruction, it shall be allowed to be reconstructed on the same footprint that
currently exists; (Ord. 271, 10-5-2015)
      3.    Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved;
      4.    On any structure devoted in whole or in part to any nonconforming
use, work may be done in any period of twelve (12) consecutive months on
ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures,
wiring or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding twenty five percent (25%) of the
current replacement value of the building as it existed at the effective date
hereof shall not be increased; and
      5.    Nothing in this title shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official.
   E.    Nonconforming Uses Of Structures And Land In Combination: If a lawful
use of structures or of structures and land in combination (hereinafter, use)
exists at the effective date hereof that would not be allowed in the district
under the terms of this title, that use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions: (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
      1.    No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this title
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, moved or structurally altered except to allow the existing
structure to be reconstructed to the existing footprint that is currently in
place; (Ord. 271, 10-5-2015)
      2.    Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were arranged or designed for such use at the time of adoption
of amendment of this title, but no such use shall be extended to occupy any
land outside such building;
      3.    Any nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises,
may be changed to another nonconforming use provided that the Board of
Adjustment, by making findings in the specific case, shall find that the
proposed use is equally or more appropriate to the district than the existing
nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the Board of Adjustment may
require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accordance with the provisions
of this title;
      4.    Any nonconforming use which is replaced by a permitted or
conditional use, shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district
in which such structure is located, and the nonconforming use may not
thereafter be resumed;
      5.    When a nonconforming use is discontinued or abandoned for six (6)
months, the nonconforming use shall not be resumed unless otherwise approved by
the City Council;
      6.    Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, continuing use of the land in a nonconforming manner shall not
be permitted if the structure is removed or destroyed.
   F.    Phasing Out Of Qualifying Nonconforming Uses: The following
nonconforming uses of buildings, structures or land may continue for a period
no longer than one (1) year from the effective date hereof, or any amendment
hereto which causes the use to be nonconforming:
      1.    Any nonconforming use with a building or structure having an
assessed value of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00) or less on the effective
date hereof or amendment.
      2.    Any nonconforming use of land where no enclosed building is
involved or where the only buildings involved are accessory or incidental to
such use or where such use is maintained in connection with a conforming
building.
Every such nonconforming use shall be completely removed from the premises at
the expiration of the one year period.
   G.    Status Of Variance Or Conditional Use Permits: If a conditional use
permit or a variance has been granted as provided in this title, or in a
previous variance of public record, it shall not be deemed a nonconformity, but
shall without further action be deemed permitted in such district. (Ord. 230,
5-6-2002)
10-3-3: CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT:
   A.    Purpose Of Conditional Use Permit: The purpose of a conditional use
permit is to provide the city with discretion on determining the suitability of
certain designated uses upon the general welfare, public health and safety. In
making this determination, whether or not the conditional use is land or
buildings, the effect upon traffic into and from the premises, or on any
adjoining roads, and all other or further factors as the city shall deem a
prerequisite of consideration in determining the effect of the use on the
general welfare, public health, and safety.
   B.    Initiating A Conditional Use Permit Request: Any person owning
property, or having documented interest therein, may initiate a request for a
conditional use permit for that property in conformance with the provisions of
this title. The property owner or designated representative shall complete the
required application for a conditional use permit which may be obtained from
the zoning official. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
   C.    Filing Application For A Conditional Use Permit: The application shall
be filed with the zoning official who shall refer the application together with
comments thereon to the planning commission. Such application shall be
accompanied by a fee as established in section
3-8-1 of this code. The chair of the planning commission may, optionally, call
for a public hearing for the next planning commission meeting to expedite the
process. The city, after receipt and review of the application, may request
additional information from the applicant which it deems necessary for a proper
review by the planning commission. The request for a conditional use permit
shall be placed on the agenda of a regular or special meeting of the planning
commission to occur no later than forty (40) days from the date of submission.
(Ord. 230, 5-6-2002; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
Whenever an application for a conditional use permit has been considered and
denied by the city council, a similar application for the conditional use
permit affecting the same property shall not be considered again by the
planning commission for at least one year from the date of its denial, except
as follows:
      1.    Applications are withdrawn prior to the city council taking final
action on the request;
      2.    The planning commission determines that the circumstances
surrounding the previous application have changed substantially;
      3.    The planning commission decides to reconsider such matter by a vote
of not less than a majority of all members.
   D.    Time Frame For Permit Approval: An official zoning decision will be
made on permits within a sixty (60) day time frame. The sixty (60) day time
frame starts from the date the completed city application, all required
information, and fees are submitted to the zoning official. If the application
does not contain all information required by law or by a previously adopted
rule, ordinance or policy, the zoning official will provide written
notification within ten (10) business days telling the applicant "what
information is missing". The clock will restart on the sixty (60) days once the
information is received by the zoning official.
   E.    Extension Of Permit Approval Time Frame: The city may extend the sixty
(60) day limit for an additional sixty (60) days. The zoning official must give
the applicant written notice of the extension before the initial sixty (60) day
period ends. The written notice must indicate two (2) things: the reason for
the extension and the length of the extension (up to an additional 60 days).
Reasons for an extension may include, for example, the need for additional
staff review of complex issues or the need for additional public meetings or
planning commission review.
When state law requires the preparation of an environmental assessment
worksheet (EAW) or an environmental impact statement (EIS) the deadline is
extended until sixty (60) days after the review process is completed.
   F.    Public Hearing: Upon receipt of an application for a conditional use
permit, the zoning administrator shall set the time and date for a public
hearing. The planning commission shall conduct the hearing and report its
findings and make recommendations to the city council. Notice of said hearing
shall consist of a legal property description and a summary description of the
request, and be published in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days
prior to the hearing. A written notice of said hearing shall be mailed at least
ten (10) days prior to the hearing to all owners of land within three hundred
fifty feet (350') of the property to which the conditional use permit relates.
A copy of the hearing notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to
which the notice was sent shall be attested and made a part of the record of
the proceeding. Failure of a property owner to receive said notice, or failure
to provide mailed notice to individual property owners, or defects in the
notice shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set forth within this title
provided a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with the notice
requirements of this title.
   G.    Consideration Of Conditional Use Request By Planning Commission:
Providing the applicant has furnished all information, as requested by the
zoning official, and provided the prescribed notification requirements can be
met, the planning commission shall consider the application at its next
meeting. The planning commission shall formulate its recommendations within
seven (7) days of its meeting at which the application was first considered.
The planning commission shall provide its recommendation to the city council
who shall consider request at its next regular meeting. Failure of the planning
commission to provide a recommendation to the city council shall not invalidate
the proceedings or actions of the city council.
   H.    Consideration Of Conditional Use Request By City Council: If, upon
receiving the report and recommendation of the planning commission, the city
council finds inconsistencies in the review process, the city council may refer
the matter back to the planning commission for further consideration prior to
making a final decision. The city council shall have the option to set and hold
a public hearing if deemed necessary and shall make a recorded finding of fact
and may impose any condition it considers necessary to protect the health,
safety, and welfare.
The city council must take action on the application at the next available
council meeting from the date of receiving the recommendation of the planning
commission or the appeal of the applicant when no report is received. An
application for a conditional use permit may be granted by a majority vote of
the council.
If the city council grants the conditional use permit, they may impose such
conditions, as may be deemed necessary for, or appropriate to serve the
purposes of, the comprehensive plan, the zoning ordinance, and to protect the
public health, safety, and welfare (i.e., additional off street parking
requirements, etc., above and beyond the normal requirements).
   I.    Issuance Of A Conditional Use Permit: In the issuance of a conditional
use permit, the planning commission, may for good reason, recommend approval
and the city council may approve a use that does not meet all the minimum
standards and requirements of the zoned district. Any standards not met shall
be so noted as part of the conditional use permit.
   J.    Amended Conditional Use Permits: An amended conditional use permit may
be applied for and administered in a manner similar to that required for a new
conditional use permit. Amended conditional use permits shall include
reapplications for permits that have expired or have been denied, requests for
substantial changes in conditions or expansions of use, and as otherwise
described in this title. The planning commission may, upon written application
and with approval by a majority of a quorum, authorize minor changes in
location, siting, and heights of buildings or structures or an increase in
overall coverage of buildings and structures; however, no change authorized by
this subsection shall cause any of the following:
      1.    A change in the use or character of the development;
      2.    An increase in intensity of use;
      3.    An increase in traffic circulation;
      4.    A reduction in off street parking and loading spaces; or
      5.    A reduction in required pavement widths.
   K.    Cancellation Of Conditional Use Permits: Where applicable, unless
otherwise specified by the city council at the time it is authorized, a
conditional use permit shall expire if the applicant fails to utilize such
conditional use permit within one year from the date of its authorization.
   L.    Appeal: Any person or persons or any taxpayer, department, board, or
bureau of the city aggrieved by the decision of the city council shall have the
right to seek review within forty five (45) days of the decision with a court
of record of such decision in the manner provided by the laws of the state of
Minnesota, and particularly Minnesota statutes, chapter 462 as such statute may
be from time to time amended, supplemented, or replaced.
Chart 2: Conditional Use Process
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5d8b6c812b54ecf4bde8462623e61d88d4e5afe7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-870.gif]
(Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-3-4: AMENDMENTS:
   A.    Amendments To The Zoning Ordinance: The regulations, restrictions, and
zoning districts promulgated in this title may, from time to time, be amended,
supplemented, changed, rezoned, or repealed; provided that no action be taken
until after a public hearing in relation thereto, at which parties with
interest and citizens shall have an opportunity to be heard. These changes may
be to the text, map, or both components of this title.
   B.    Initiation Of Zoning Amendment Request: The planning commission or
city council may, upon their own motion, initiate a zoning amendment request in
accordance with the provisions of this title.
Any person owning property, or having documented interest therein, may initiate
a request for a zoning amendment for that property in conformance with the
provisions of this title. The property owner or designated representative shall
complete the required application for a zoning amendment which may be obtained
from the zoning official.
   C.    Filing Application For A Zoning Amendment: The application shall be
filed with the zoning official who shall refer the application together with
comments thereon to the planning commission. The chair of the planning
commission may call for a public hearing for the next planning commission
meeting to expedite the process. If the timing of the application is such that
the public notification requirements cannot be met prior to the next meeting,
the chair of the planning commission shall schedule the public hearing for the
following month. The zoning official, after receipt and review of the
application, may request additional information from the applicant which is
deemed necessary for a proper review by the planning commission. The request
for a zoning amendment shall be placed on the agenda of a regular or special
meeting of the planning commission to occur no later than forty (40) days from
the date of submission.
Whenever an application for a zoning amendment has been considered and denied
by the city council, a similar application for the zoning amendment affecting
the same property shall not be considered again by the planning commission for
at least one year from the date of its denial, except as follows:
      1.    Applications are withdrawn prior to the city council taking final
action on the request;
      2.    The planning commission determines that the circumstances
surrounding the previous application have changed substantially;
      3.    The planning commission decides to reconsider such matter by a two-
thirds (2/3) vote of the city council.
   D.    Time Frame For Zoning Ordinance Amendment Approval: An official zoning
decision will be made on zoning ordinance amendments within a sixty (60) day
time frame. The sixty (60) day time frame starts from the date the completed
city application, all required information, and fees are submitted to the
zoning official. If the application does not contain all information required
by law or by a previously adopted rule, ordinance or policy, the zoning
official will provide written notification within ten (10) business days
telling the applicant "what information is missing". The clock will restart on
the sixty (60) days once the information is received by the zoning official.
   E.    Extension Of Zoning Ordinance Amendment Approval Time Frame: The city
may extend the sixty (60) day limit for an additional sixty (60) days. The
zoning official must give the applicant written notice of the extension before
the initial sixty (60) day period ends. The written notice must indicate two
(2) things: the reason for the extension and the length of the extension (up to
an additional 60 days). Reasons for an extension may include, for example, the
need for additional staff review of complex issues or the need for additional
public meetings or planning commission review.
When state law requires the preparation of an environmental assessment
worksheet (EAW) or an environmental impact statement (EIS) the deadline is
extended until sixty (60) days after the review process is completed.
   F.    Public Hearing: Upon receipt of an application for a zoning amendment,
the zoning official shall set the time and date for a public hearing. The
planning commission shall conduct the hearing and report its findings and make
recommendations to the city council. Notice of said hearing shall consist of a
legal property description and/or a summary description of the request, and be
published in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to the
hearing. In the case of a zoning amendment affecting an area of five (5) acres
or less, a written notice of said hearing shall be mailed at least ten (10)
days prior to the hearing to all owners of land within three hundred fifty feet
(350') of the property to which the amendment relates. A copy of the hearing
notice and a list of the property owners and addresses to which the notice was
sent shall be attested and made a part of the record of the proceeding. Failure
of a property owner to receive said notice, or failure to provide mailed notice
to individual property owners, or defects in the notice shall not invalidate
any such proceedings as set forth within this title provided a bona fide
attempt has been made to comply with the notice requirements of this title.
   G.    Consideration Of Zoning Ordinance Amendment Request By Planning
Commission: Providing the applicant has furnished all information, as requested
by the zoning official, and provided the prescribed notification requirements
can be met, the planning commission shall consider the application at its next
meeting. The planning commission shall formulate its recommendations within
seven (7) days of its meeting at which the application was first considered.
The planning commission shall provide its recommendation to the city council
who shall consider the request at its next regular meeting. Should the planning
commission fail to provide a recommendation to the city council within the
allotted forty seven (47) days, the applicant may appeal directly to the city
council for a decision. Failure of the planning commission to provide a
recommendation to the city council shall not invalidate the proceedings or
actions of the city council.
   H.    Consideration Of Zoning Amendment Request By City Council: If, upon
receiving the report and recommendation of the planning commission, the city
council finds inconsistencies in the review process, the city council may refer
the matter back to the planning commission for further consideration prior to
making a final decision. The city council shall have the option to set and hold
a public hearing if deemed necessary and shall make a recorded finding of fact
and may impose any conditions it considers necessary to protect the health,
safety, and welfare.
The city council must take action on the zoning amendment request at the next
available council meeting from the date of receiving the recommendation of the
planning commission or the appeal of the applicant when no report is received.
Approval of a proposed amendment shall require a majority vote of the city
council.
   I.    Effective Date: The amendment shall not become effective until such
time as the city council approves an ordinance reflecting said amendment and
after said ordinance is published in the official newspaper.
   J.    Appeals: Any person or persons or any taxpayer, department, board, or
bureau of the city aggrieved by the decision of the city council shall have the
right to seek review within forty five (45) days of the decision with a court
of record of such decision in the manner provided by the laws of the state of
Minnesota, and particularly Minnesota statutes, chapter 462 as such statute may
be from time to time amended, supplemented, or replaced.
Chart 3: Zoning Amendment Process
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5d8b6c812b54ecf4bde8462623e61d88d4e5afe7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-870.gif]
(Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-3-5: VARIANCES:
   A.    Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide for deviations from
the literal provisions of this title in instances where their strict
enforcement would cause undue hardship because of the circumstances unique to
the individual property under consideration, and to grant such variances only
when it is demonstrated that such actions will be in keeping with the spirit
and intent of this title. A variance shall not be permitted for the
establishment or expansion of a use.
   B.    Initiation Of A Request For A Variance: Any person owning property, or
having documented interest therein, may initiate a request for a variance for
that property in conformance with the provisions of this title. (Ord. 230, 5-6-
2002)
   C.    Filing An Application For A Variance: The property owner or designated
representative shall complete the required application for a variance which may
be obtained from the zoning official. Such application shall be accompanied by
a fee as established in section
3-8-1 of this code. The application for a variance shall be filed with the
zoning official and a zoning permit with proper fees must be submitted at the
same time. The zoning official, after review of the application, shall have the
authority to request additional information from the applicant which is deemed
necessary for a proper review by the planning commission. Should no further
information be deemed necessary, or upon receipt of all additional information,
the zoning official shall forward the request for a variance to the planning
commission. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
Variance requests for the same property shall not be heard within two (2)
months of a previous request unless it can be demonstrated to the zoning
official that the conditions for the variance have changed.
   D.    Time Frame For Permit Approval: An official zoning decision will be
made on permits within a sixty (60) day time frame. The sixty (60) day time
frame starts from the date the completed city application, all required
information, and fees are submitted to the zoning official. If the application
does not contain all information required by law or by a previously adopted
rule, ordinance or policy, the zoning official will provide written
notification within ten (10) business days telling the applicant "what
information is missing". The clock will restart on the sixty (60) days once the
information is received by the zoning official.
   E.    Extension Of Permit Approval Time Frame: The city may extend the sixty
(60) day limit for an additional sixty (60) days. The zoning official must give
the applicant written notice of the extension before the initial sixty (60) day
period ends. The written notice must indicate two (2) things: the reason for
the extension and the length of the extension (up to an additional 60 days).
Reasons for an extension may include, for example, the need for additional
staff review of complex issues or the need for additional public meetings or
planning commission review.
When state law requires the preparation of an environmental assessment
worksheet (EAW) or an environmental impact statement (EIS) the deadline is
extended until sixty (60) days after the review process is completed.
   F.    Public Hearing: Upon receipt of an application for a variance, the
chair of the board of adjustment shall set the time and date for a public
hearing. Notice of said hearing shall consist of a legal property description
and/or a summary description of the request, and be published in the official
newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing. In the case if variances
affecting an area of five (5) acres or less, a written notice of said hearing
shall be mailed at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing to all owners of
land within three hundred fifty feet (350') of the property to which the
variance relates. A copy of the hearing notice and a list of the property
owners and addresses to which the notice was sent shall be attested and made a
part of the record of the proceeding. Failure of a property owner to receive
said notice, or failure to provide mailed notice to individual property owners,
or defects in the notice shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set forth
within this title provided a bona fide attempt has been made to comply with the
notice requirements of this title.
Variances may require the applicant to provide a lot survey.
   G.    Consideration Of Request For Variance By The Board Of Adjustment: The
applicant or representative thereof may appear before the board of adjustment
to answer questions concerning the proposed variance. The board of adjustment
shall have the authority to request additional information from the applicant
or to retain expert testimony with the consent and at the expense of the
applicant. Failure by an applicant to supply all necessary supportive
information may be grounds for denial of the request.
The board of adjustment shall make findings of fact and shall decide whether to
approve or deny the request for variance within sixty (60) days of the receipt
of the completed application and fees. A variance to this title shall not be
granted unless approved by a majority of the members of the board of
adjustment.
A variance from the terms of this title shall not be granted unless the board
of adjustment makes findings, following Minnesota statutes chapter 462, and
based upon competent material and substantial evidence on the whole record
that:
      1.    Special conditions and circumstances exist which are peculiar to
the land, structure, or building involved and which are not applicable to other
lands, structures, or buildings in the same district;
      2.    Literal interpretation of the provisions of this title would
deprive the applicant of rights commonly enjoyed by other properties in the
same district under the terms of this title;
      3.    Approval of the variance as requested will not confer on the
applicant any special privilege that is denied by this title to other lands,
structures, or buildings in the same district under the same conditions;
      4.    Special conditions or circumstances do not result from the actions
of the applicant;
      5.    Authorization of the variance will not be of substantial detriment
to the neighboring property and will not be contrary to the spirit and purpose
of this title; and
      6.    Neither a nonconforming use of neighboring lands, structures, or
buildings in the same district, nor permitted uses of land, structures, or
buildings in other districts shall be considered ground for the issuance of a
variance.
   H.    Conditions Of Approval: In authorizing a variance, the board may, in
addition to the specific conditions of approval called for in this title,
attach such other conditions regarding the location, character, landscaping, or
treatment reasonably necessary to further the intent and spirit of this title
and the protection of the public interest.
   I.    Cancellation Of Variances: Unless otherwise specified by the board of
adjustment at the time it is authorized, a variance shall expire if the
applicant fails to utilize such variance within one year from the date of its
authorization.
   J.    Appeals: To appeal a decision of the board of adjustment, a written
notice of appeal must be filed with the city within forty five (45) days of the
decision of the board of adjustment. Appeals to the city council and appeals
from the city council's decision shall be in accordance with the procedures for
appeals from the board of adjustment set forth in section
10-3-6 of this chapter.
Any person or persons or any taxpayer, department, board, or bureau of the city
aggrieved by the decision of the city council shall have the right to seek
review within forty five (45) days of the decision with a court of record of
such decision in the manner provided by the laws of the state of Minnesota, and
particularly Minnesota statutes, chapter 462 as such statute may be from time
to time amended, supplemented, or replaced.
Excerpt of Minnesota statutes chapter 462: "To hear requests for variances from
the literal provisions of the ordinance in instances where their strict
enforcement would cause undue hardship because of circumstances unique to the
individual property under consideration, and to grant such variances only when
it is demonstrated that such actions will be in keeping with the spirit and
intent of the ordinance. "Undue hardship" as used in connection with the
granting of a variance means the property in question cannot be put to a
reasonable use if used under conditions allowed by the official controls, the
plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the property not
created by the landowner, and the variance, if granted, will not alter the
essential character of the locality. Economic considerations alone shall not
constitute an undue hardship if reasonable use for the property exists under
the terms of the ordinance. Undue hardship also includes, but is not limited
to, inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems. Variances
shall be granted for earth sheltered construction as defined in section
216C.06, subdivision 2, when in harmony with the ordinance. The board of
appeals and adjustments or the governing body as the case may be, may not
permit as a variance any use that is not permitted under the ordinance for
property in the zone where the affected person's land is located. The board or
governing body as the case may be, may permit as a variance the temporary use
of a one family dwelling as a two family dwelling. The board or governing body
as the case may be may impose conditions in the granting of variances to insure
compliance and to protect adjacent properties."
Chart 4: Variance Process
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5d8b6c812b54ecf4bde8462623e61d88d4e5afe7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-872.gif]
(Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-3-6: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT; APPEALS:
   A.    Board Designation: A committee of three (3) members shall serve as the
board of adjustment. Terms of office shall be four (4) years or shall run
concurrently with their terms on the planning commission.
   B.    Applicability: An appeal shall only be applicable to an interpretation
of legislative intent of provisions of this title.
   C.    Proceedings Of The Board Of Adjustment: The board of adjustment shall
adopt rules necessary to the conduct of the affairs, and in keeping with the
provisions of this title. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chair and
at such other times as the board may determine. The chair or acting chair, may
administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses. All meetings shall be
open to the public.
The board of adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing which
members were present and how each member voted on each question. Records shall
be kept of its examinations and other official actions, all of which shall be a
public record and be filed in the office of the zoning official.
   D.    Filing An Appeal: Appeals to the board of adjustment concerning
interpretation or administration of this title must be filed with the city by
the property owner or their agent or by any officer or department of the
governing body of the city affected by any decision of the zoning official
within forty five (45) days after the making of the order.
Any appeal filed shall be comprehensive and include all matters subject to
question. Such appeals must be filed with the board of adjustment by serving
the zoning official. The zoning official shall forthwith transmit to the board
all papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken. Subsequent appeals filed by the same individual or group which are
intended to cause unjustifiable delay shall not be accepted by the city.
   E.    Public Hearing: The board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time
for the hearing of appeal, give public notice, thereof, as well as due notice
to all property owners within a three hundred fifty foot (350') radius of the
affected property, and decide the same within a reasonable time. The person
filing the appeal shall be given written notice of the hearing date. At the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or attorney.
   F.    Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of
the action being appealed unless it is certified to the board of adjustment,
after the notice of appeal is filed, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate a stay would cause imminent peril to life and property. In such
case, proceedings shall not be stayed other than by a restraining order which
may be granted by a court of record on application to the city.
   G.    Procedure: The procedure for making such an appeal shall be as
follows:
      1.    The property owner or their agent shall file with the city a
written notice of appeal stating the specific grounds upon which the appeal is
made. The person filing the appeal shall be given written notice of a hearing
date and be able to appear and testify at such hearing. Such hearing shall be
held within sixty (60) days of the filing of the appeal. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
      2.    The filing of an appeal shall be accompanied by a fee as provided
for in section
3-8-1 of this code. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
      3.    The ruling appealed from shall stand unless a majority of all
members of the board of adjustment and appeals by resolution vote to overturn
or modify the prior ruling within sixty (60) days of the hearing.
      4.    The board of adjustment shall make its decision by resolution
within sixty (60) days of the hearing.
   H.    Decisions Of The Board Of Adjustment:
      1.    In exercising the above mentioned powers, the board of adjustment
may, so long as such action is in conformity with the terms of this title,
reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from, and may make such other requirement,
decision, or determination, and to that end shall have powers of the zoning
official from whom the appeal is taken.
      2.    The concurring vote of four (4) members of the board shall be
necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or determination of the
zoning official, or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon
which it is required to pass under this title, or to effect any variation in
the application of this title.
      3.    A copy of the decision of the board of adjustment shall be served
on the applicant by mail.
   I.    Appeals From The Board Of Adjustment: Any person or persons or any
taxpayer, department, board or bureau of the city aggrieved by any decision of
the board of adjustment, shall have the right to seek review within forty five
(45) days of the decision with the city council of the city. Any appeal must be
filed, in writing, with the city clerk/treasurer within the forty five (45) day
period, and such written appeal shall set forth the decision appealed from and
the date of that decision. Upon receiving a notice of appeal, the appeal shall
be placed on the agenda of the next regular council meeting to occur following
at least fifteen (15) days from the receipt of the appeal. At that meeting the
council shall review the findings of facts and decision made by the board of
adjustment, as well as any documents that were furnished to the board of
adjustment on the matter. The council may, but is not required to, allow the
aggrieved party and the other persons to speak to the council on the issue
involved in the appeal. The city council shall have the authority to uphold the
decision of the board of adjustment by passing a resolution adopting the
findings of facts and decision of the board of adjustment, or the council, by a
vote of a majority of all the members of the council, may reverse or modify the
decision of the board of adjustment, in which case the city council shall
prepare its own findings of facts and decision on the matter appealed. Any
person or persons or taxpayer, department, board or bureau of the city
aggrieved by the decision of the city council shall have the right to seek
review within thirty (30) days of the decision with a court of record of such
decision in the manner provided by the laws of the state of Minnesota, and
particularly Minnesota statutes, chapter 462 as such statutes may be, from time
to time, amended, supplemented or replaced.
   J.    Duties Of Zoning Official, Board Of Adjustment, City Council, And
Courts On Matters Of Appeal: It is the intent of this title that all questions
of interpretation and enforcement shall be first presented to the zoning
official and that such questions shall be presented to the board of adjustment
only on appeal from the decision of the zoning official, and that recourse from
the decisions of the board of adjustment shall be to the courts as provided by
law and particularly by chapter 462, Minnesota statutes.
It is further the intent of this title that the duties of the city council, in
connection with this title, shall not include hearing and deciding questions of
interpretation and enforcement that may arise. The procedure for deciding such
questions shall be as stated in this chapter and this title. Under this title,
the city council shall have only the duties of: 1) considering and adopting or
rejecting proposed amendments or the repeal of this title, as provided by law;
2) establishing a schedule of fees and charges; 3) making final determination
on conditional uses; and 4) such other duties, if any, as they be expressly
imposed upon by this title. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
   K.    Compensation: No board of adjustment member shall receive a salary
except as fixed by the council. (Ord. 239, 12-5-2005)
Chart 5:   Procedural Chart For Zoning, Rezoning, Amendments, Variances, And
Conditional Use Permits
 
                Proposals Which Rezoning Or
Responsible     Conform To The  Other           Variance        Conditional Use
Entity          Zoning          ZoningAmendment                 Permit
                Ordinance
                1. Review       1. Review       1. Review       1. Review
                applications    applications 2. application 2.  application
Zoning official for con         Forward         Forward to      2. Forward
                formance 2.     applications to board of        application to
                Issue a zoning  planning        adjustment      planning
                permit          commission                      commission
                                1. Review                       1. Review
                                proposals 2.                    proposal 2.
                                Hold public                     Hold public
                                hearing                         hearing
Planning                       following due                  following due
commission                      notice 3. Make                  notice 3.
                                recommendation                  Recommend
                                to governing                    approval or
                                body                            disapproval to
                                                                governing body
                                                1. Review
                                                proposal 2.
                1. Review                       Hold public
                action of                       hearing after
Board of        zoning                         due notice 3.    
adjustment      official, if                    Approve or deny
                appealed                        application
                                                based on
                                                standards of
                                                hardship
                                1. Review
                                recommendations
                1. Review       of planning     1. Review       1. Review
                action of board commission 2.   action of board recommendations
Governing body  of adjustment   Make decision   of adjustment   of planning
                2. Uphold,      by 2/3 vote     2. Uphold,      commission 2.
                reverse, or     (Minnesota      reverse, or     Make decision
                modify decision statutes        modify decision
                                462.357, subd.
                                2)
Judicial courts 1. Final appeal 1. Final appeal 1. Final appeal 1. Final appeal
 
(Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-3-7: FEES, CHARGES, FINES, AND EXPENSES:
   A.    Establishment Of Fees, Charges, And Expenses: The city council shall
establish, by ordinance, a schedule of fees, charges, and expenses (see section
3-8-1 of this code), and a collection procedure for rezoning applications,
variances, conditional uses, appeals, and other matters pertaining to this
title. The schedule of fees shall be available at the office of the zoning
official, and planning commission as appropriate and may be altered and amended
only by the city council. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
   B.    Violations: Violation of the provisions of this title or failure to
comply with any of its requirements shall constitute a misdemeanor. Any person
who violates this title or fails to comply with any of its requirements after
written notice by the zoning official allowing reasonable time to comply,
shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not more than seven hundred dollars
($700.00) and costs of prosecution or imprisoned for not more than ninety (90)
days, or both. Each day such violation continues or occurs, constitutes a
separate offense and may be prosecuted as such.
The owner or tenant of any building, structure, premises, or part thereof, any
architect, builder, contractor, agent, or other person who commits,
participates in, assists in, or maintains such violation, may each be found
guilty of a separate offense and suffer the penalties herein provided.
Any person commencing construction prior to receiving a zoning permit will be
subject to a penalty of tripling the normal zoning fees.
Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other lawful
action, as is necessary, to prevent or remedy any violation. (Ord. 230, 5-6-
2002)
CHAPTER 4
ZONING DISTRICTS
SECTION:
10-4-1: Zoning Districts Established
10-4-2: R-1 Large Lot Residential
10-4-2-1: R-1a Medium Lot Residential
10-4-3: R-2 Neighborhood Residential
10-4-4: R-3 Multiple-Family Residential
10-4-5: R-4 Manufactured Housing Residential
10-4-6: C-1 Central Commercial
10-4-7: C-2 Highway Commercial
10-4-8: C-3 Agriculture Commercial
10-4-9: I-1 Light Industrial
10-4-10: I-2 Heavy Industrial
10-4-11: TZ Transition Zone
10-4-1: ZONING DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED:
   A.    Compliance; Permits Required: The use made of property may not be
substantially changed; substantial clearing, grading, or excavation may not be
commenced; and buildings or other substantial structures may not be
constructed, erected, moved or substantially altered except in accordance with
and pursuant to one or more of the following permits:
      1.    A zoning permit issued by the zoning official,
      2.    A conditional use permit issued by the governing body or planning
commission of Hawley, and
      3.    A building permit (upon city adoption of the state building code).
   B.    Zoning Districts: The following zoning districts and district
requirements are hereby established: (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
R-1   Large lot residential
R-1a  Medium lot residential
R-2   Neighborhood residential
R-3   Multiple-family residential
R-4   Manufactured housing residential
C-1   Central commercial
C-2   Highway commercial
C-3   Agriculture commercial
I-1   Light industrial
I-2   Heavy industrial
TZ    Transition zone
 
(Ord. 230, 5-6-2002; amd. Ord. 252, 10-29-2009)
10-4-2: R-1 LARGE LOT RESIDENTIAL:
   A.    Purpose: The R-1 district is established to provide for the
development of new low density (not more than 6 dwelling units per 43,560
square feet) residential area with large boulevards and narrow local streets
which promote the sense of quiet well kept single-family neighborhoods.
   B.    Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the R-1 district:
      1.    Single-family dwellings of new construction.
      2.    Two-family dwellings of new construction.
      3.    Daycare facilities for twelve (12) persons or less, residential
daycare facilities serving six (6) or fewer persons and group family daycare
facilities licensed under Minnesota rules, parts 9502.0315 to 9502.0445,
serving fourteen (14) or fewer persons and in compliance with section
10-5-6 of this title.
      4.    Parks, playgrounds and golf courses.
      5.    Bicycle and pedestrian paths and other publicly operated
recreational facilities not otherwise restricted by the provisions of this
title.
      6.    Garage and rummage sales provided that:
         a.    Sales may not exceed three (3) days during any thirty (30) day
period and are limited to a maximum of eight (8) days per year.
         b.    Signs advertising the sale may not be placed on the city's right
of way.
         c.    No merchandise offered for sale may be placed on the city's
right of way.
   C.    Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory uses in an R-
1 district:
      1.    Private garages, parking spaces and carports. Private garages are
intended for use to store the private passenger vehicles of the family or
families resident upon the premises, and in which no business service or
industry is carried on.
      2.    Recreational equipment, recreational vehicles, utility trailers or
equipment, and off road vehicles kept in a side yard or a rear yard must be
parked on a gravel, paved or concrete surface. No parking in front yard is
allowed.
      3.    Home occupations as regulated by section
10-5-10 of this title.
      4.    Noncommercial greenhouses and conservatories.
      5.    Tool houses, sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic
supplies and noncommercial recreational equipment.
   D.    Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in an R-
1 district and as such require a conditional use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by section
10-3-3 of this title:
      1.    Governmental and public regulated utility buildings and structures
necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city; provided,
that:
         a.    Compatibility with surrounding neighborhood is maintained and
required setbacks and side yard requirements are met.
         b.    Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with
no outside storage.
         c.    Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      2.    Public or semipublic recreational buildings and uses including golf
courses, neighborhood or community centers, libraries, and public swimming
pools (not less than 200 feet from existing or projected residential area);
public or private educational institutes limited to elementary, junior high and
senior high schools; and religious institutions such as churches, chapels,
temples and synagogues; provided that:
         a.    Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and
landscaping is provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         b.    Adequate off street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting and directly across a public street or alley to
the principal use in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title and that such parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with
section
10-5-5 of this title.
         c.    Adequate off street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      3.    Condominiums, multiple-family residences containing no more than
four (4) residences, provided that:
         a.    Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and
landscaping is provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         b.    Adequate off street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting and directly across a public street or alley to
the principal use in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title and that such parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with
section
10-5-5 of this title.
         c.    Adequate off street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
   E.    Lot Requirements And Setbacks: The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in an R-1 district subject to the additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this title: (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
      1.    Lot Area:
         a.    Minimum lot size of ten thousand five hundred (10,500) square
feet (plus 2,500 square feet per additional dwelling unit on the lot). (Ord.
266, 4-28-2014)
         b.    Maximum lot coverage: Fifty percent (50%).
         c.    Minimum livable space: One thousand six hundred (1,600) square
feet.
         d.    Minimum roof slope: Three to twelve (3:12).
      2.    Setbacks: All setbacks are from property lines. The street right of
way and boulevard are not part of the setback area.
         a.    Front Yard: Not less than thirty feet (30').
         b.    Side Yard:
            (1)    Footage: Eight feet (8').
            (2)    Accessory structures: Eight feet (8') minimum unless a
garage entrance faces into a street in which case the setback will be eighteen
feet (18') to accommodate a vehicle from encroaching onto the public right of
way.
         c.    Rear Yard:
            (1)    Principal building: Eight feet (8').
            (2)    Accessory structures: Eight feet (8'). If a garage entrance
faces onto a street the minimum setback will be eighteen feet (18') to
accommodate a vehicle from encroaching onto the public right of way.
         d.    Corner Lot: If a corner lot has a boulevard area of fourteen
feet (14') or more, the front yard may be set as the direction the main house
entrance faces. The other side may be treated as a side yard setback. (Traffic
visibility must be maintained with no extensions allowed into the side yard,
i.e., deck, steps.)
   F.    Maximum Building Height: The following maximum building heights will
apply in the R-1 district subject to additional requirements, exceptions, and
modifications set forth in this title:
      1.    Dwelling units or principal buildings: Thirty five feet (35').
      2.    Accessory buildings: As governed by section
10-5-9 of this title.
   G.    Supplemental Standards: The supplemental standards are listed and
enforced under chapter 5 of this title (i.e., parking lot, loading space,
signs, fences and screening, drainage, traffic visibility, and grading). (Ord.
230, 5-6-2002)
10-4-2-1: R-1a MEDIUM LOT RESIDENTIAL:
   A.    Purpose: The R-1a district is established to provide for the
development of new moderate density (not more than 8 dwelling units per 43,560
square feet) residential area with large boulevards and narrow local streets
which promote the sense of quiet well kept single-family and twin home
neighborhoods.
   B.    Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the R-1a district:
      1.    Single-family dwellings of new construction.
      2.    Two-family dwellings of new construction.
      3.    Daycare facilities for twelve (12) persons or less, residential
daycare facilities serving six (6) or fewer persons and group family daycare
facilities licensed under Minnesota rules, parts 9502.0315 to 9502.0445,
serving fourteen (14) or fewer persons and in compliance with section
10-5-6 of this title.
      4.    Parks, playgrounds and golf courses.
      5.    Bicycle and pedestrian paths and other publicly operated
recreational facilities not otherwise restricted by the provisions of this
title.
      6.    Garage and rummage sales provided that:
         a.    Sales may not exceed three (3) days during any thirty (30) day
period and are limited to a maximum of eight (8) days per year.
         b.    Signs advertising the sale may not be placed on the city's right
of way.
         c.    No merchandise offered for sale may be placed on the city's
right of way.
   C.    Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory uses in an R-1a
district:
      1.    Private garages, parking spaces and carports. Private garages are
intended for use to store the private passenger vehicles of the family or
families resident upon the premises, and in which no business service or
industry is carried on.
      2.    Recreational equipment, recreational vehicles, utility trailers or
equipment, and off road vehicles kept in a side yard or a rear yard must be
parked on a gravel, paved or concrete surface. No parking in front yard is
allowed.
      3.    Home occupations as regulated by section
10-5-10 of this title.
      4.    Noncommercial greenhouses and conservatories.
      5.    Tool houses, sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic
supplies and noncommercial recreational equipment.
   D.    Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in an R-1a
district and as such require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set
forth in and regulated by section
10-3-3 of this title:
      1.    Governmental and public regulated utility buildings and structures
necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city; provided,
that:
         a.    Compatibility with surrounding neighborhood is maintained and
required setbacks and side yard requirements are met.
         b.    Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with
no outside storage.
         c.    Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      2.    Public or semipublic recreational buildings and uses including golf
courses, neighborhood or community centers, libraries, and public swimming
pools (not less than 200 feet from existing or projected residential area);
public or private educational institutes limited to elementary, junior high and
senior high schools; and religious institutions such as churches, chapels,
temples and synagogues; provided that:
         a.    Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and
landscaping is provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         b.    Adequate off street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting and directly across a public street or alley to
the principal use in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title and that such parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with
section
10-5-5 of this title.
         c.    Adequate off street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      3.    Condominiums, multiple-family residences containing no more than
four (4) residences, provided that:
         a.    Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and
landscaping is provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         b.    Adequate off street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting and directly across a public street or alley to
the principal use in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title and that such parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with
section
10-5-5 of this title.
         c.    Adequate off street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
   E.    Lot Requirements And Setbacks: The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in an R-1a district subject to the additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this title:
      1.    Lot Area:
         a.    Minimum lot size of seven thousand (7,000) square feet (plus
3,000 square feet per additional dwelling unit on the lot).
         b.    Maximum lot coverage: Fifty percent (50%).
         c.    Minimum livable space: One thousand one hundred (1,100) square
feet.
         d.    Minimum roof slope: Three to twelve (3:12).
      2.    Setbacks: All setbacks are from property lines. The street right of
way and boulevard are not part of the setback area.
         a.    Front Yard: Not less than thirty feet (30').
         b.    Side Yard:
            (1)    Footage: Five feet (5').
            (2)    Accessory structures: Five feet (5') minimum unless a garage
entrance faces into a street in which case the setback will be eighteen feet
(18') to accommodate a vehicle from encroaching onto the public right of way.
         c.    Rear Yard:
            (1)    Principal building: Eight feet (8').
            (2)    Accessory structures: Eight feet (8'). If a garage entrance
faces onto a street the minimum setback will be eighteen feet (18') to
accommodate a vehicle from encroaching onto the public right of way.
         d.    Corner Lot: If a corner lot has a boulevard area of fourteen
feet (14') or more, the front yard may be set as the direction the main house
entrance faces. The other side may be treated as a side yard setback. (Traffic
visibility must be maintained with no extensions allowed into the side yard,
i.e., deck, steps.)
   F.    Maximum Building Height: The following maximum building heights will
apply in the R-1a district subject to additional requirements, exceptions, and
modifications set forth in this title:
      1.    Dwelling units or principal buildings: Thirty five feet (35').
      2.    Accessory buildings: As governed by section
10-5-9 of this title.
   G.    Supplemental Standards: The supplemental standards are listed and
enforced under chapter 5 of this title (i.e., parking lot, loading space,
signs, fences and screening, drainage, traffic visibility, and grading). (Ord.
252, 10-29-2009)
10-4-3: R-2 NEIGHBORHOOD RESIDENTIAL:
   A.    Purpose: The R-2 district is established to provide for the continued
use of existing residential property and the development of new medium density
(not more than 10 dwelling units per 43,560 square feet) residential uses which
support the effective maintenance or rehabilitation of older neighborhoods and
provide low cost alternatives for lower income homebuyers. It is intended that
this zoning district will provide the opportunity for cost effective
development of limited multi- family residences while maintaining a single-
family character.
   B.    Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the R-2 district:
      1.    Single-family dwellings of new construction.
      2.    Two-family dwellings.
      3.    Daycare facilities for twelve (12) persons or less, residential
daycare facilities serving six (6) or fewer persons and group family daycare
facilities licensed under Minnesota rules, parts 9502.0315 to 9502.0445,
serving fourteen (14) or fewer persons and in compliance with section
10-5-6 of this title.
      4.    Residential facilities for six (6) persons or less.
      5.    Parks, playgrounds and golf courses.
      6.    Bicycle and pedestrian paths and other publicly operated
recreational facilities not otherwise restricted by the provisions of this
title.
      7.    Garage and rummage sales provided that:
         a.    Sales may not exceed three (3) days during any thirty (30) day
period and are limited to a maximum of eight (8) days per year.
         b.    Signs advertising the sale may not be placed on the city's right
of way.
         c.    No merchandise offered for sale may be placed on the city's
right of way.
   C.    Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory uses in an R-
2 district:
      1.    Private garages, parking spaces and carports. Private garages are
intended for use to store the private passenger vehicles of the family or
families resident upon the premises, and in which no business service or
industry is carried on. Such space can be rented to noncommercial vehicles,
trailers or equipment if sufficient off street parking in full compliance with
this title is provided elsewhere on the property.
      2.    Recreational equipment, recreational vehicles, utility trailers or
equipment, and off road vehicles kept in a side yard or a rear yard must be
parked on a gravel, paved or concrete surface. No parking in front yard is
allowed.
      3.    Home occupations as regulated by section
10-5-10 of this title.
      4.    Noncommercial greenhouses and conservatories.
      5.    Tool houses, sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic
supplies and noncommercial recreational equipment.
      6.    Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than two (2) persons.
   D.    Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in an R-
2 district and as such require a conditional use permit based upon procedures
set forth in and regulated by section
10-3-3 of this title:
      1.    Governmental and public regulated utility buildings and structures
necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city; provided,
that:
         a.    Compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained
and required setbacks and side yard requirements are met.
         b.    Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with
no outside storage.
         c.    Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      2.    Public or semipublic recreational buildings and uses including golf
courses, neighborhood or community centers, libraries, and public swimming
pools (not less than 200 feet from existing or projected residential area);
residential facilities for more than seven (7) persons; public or private
educational institutes limited to elementary, junior high and senior high
schools; and religious institutions such as churches, chapels, temples and
synagogues; provided that:
         a.    Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and
landscaping is provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         b.    Adequate off street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting and directly across a public street or alley to
the principal use in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title and that such parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with
section
10-5-5 of this title.
         c.    Adequate off street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      3.    Cemeteries; provided, that:
         a.    The site accesses on a minor arterial or arterial street.
         b.    The site is screened in accordance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         c.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      4.    Condominiums, multiple-family residences containing no more than
eight (8) residences and single-family residences moved in; provided that:
         a.    Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and
landscaping is provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         b.    Adequate off street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting and directly across a public street or alley to
the principal use in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title and that such parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with
section
10-5-5 of this title.
         c.    Adequate off street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
         e.    If moving a building, all provisions of section
10-5-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      5.    Manufactured homes subject to the following conditions:
         a.    All manufactured homes shall be constructed after June 15, 1976,
and bear the HUD certification seal.
         b.    The minimum width of the main portion of the structure shall not
be less than twenty four feet (24'), as measured across the narrowest portion.
         c.    All dwellings shall be placed on a permanent foundation in
compliance with the uniform building code.
         d.    Tongues and axles on all manufactured homes shall be removed.
   E.    Minimum Lot Requirements And Setbacks: The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in an R-2 district subject to additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this title:
      1.    Lot Area:
         a.    Minimum seven thousand (7,000) square feet (plus 2,500 square
feet for each additional dwelling unit on lot).
         b.    Minimum liveable space: one thousand (1,000) square feet.
         c.    Maximum lot coverage: fifty percent (50%) of the total lot area.
         d.    Minimum roof slope: three to twelve (3:12).
      2.    Setbacks: All setbacks are from property lines. The street right of
way and boulevard are not part of these setback areas.
         a.    Front Yard: Not less than twenty five feet (25').
         b.    Side Yard:
            (1)    Footage: Five feet (5').
            (2)    Accessory Structures: Five feet (5') minimum unless a garage
entrance faces into a street in which case the setback will be eighteen feet
(18') to accommodate a vehicle from encroaching onto the public right of way.
         c.    Rear Yard:
            (1)    Footage: Eight feet (8').
            (2)    Accessory Structures: Eight feet (8'). If a garage entrance
faces onto a street the minimum setback will be eighteen feet (18') to
accommodate a vehicle from encroaching onto the public right of way.
         d.    Corner Lot: If a corner lot has a boulevard area of fourteen
feet (14') or more, the front yard may be set as the direction the main house
entrance faces. The other side may be treated as a side yard setback. (Traffic
visibility must be maintained with no extensions allowed into the side yard,
i.e., deck, steps.)
   F.    Maximum Building Height: The following maximum building heights will
apply in the R-2 district subject to additional requirements, exceptions, and
modifications set forth in this title:
      1.    Dwelling Units Or Principal Buildings: Thirty five feet (35').
      2.    Accessory Buildings: As governed by section
10-5-9 of this title.
   G.    Supplemental Standards: The supplemental standards are listed and
enforced under chapter 5 of this title (i.e., parking lot, loading space,
signs, fences and screening, drainage, traffic visibility, and grading). (Ord.
230, 5-6-2002)
10-4-4: R-3 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL:
   A.    Purpose: The R-3 district is established to provide for high density
residential property in a manner which provides neighborhood green space while
allowing densities up to fifteen (15) dwelling units per forty three thousand
five hundred sixty (43,560) square feet.
   B.    Permitted Uses: The following uses are permitted in an R-3 district:
      1.    New single-family dwellings.
      2.    Condominiums.
      3.    Multiple-family dwellings.
      4.    Daycare facilities serving twelve (12) or fewer persons,
residential care facilities serving six (6) or fewer persons, and group family
daycare facilities licensed under Minnesota rules, parts 9502.0315 to
9502.0445, serving fourteen (14) or fewer persons and in compliance with
section
10-5-6 of this title.
      5.    Residential facilities for ten (10) persons or less.
      6.    Parks, playgrounds and golf courses.
      7.    Bicycle and pedestrian paths and other publicly operated
recreational facilities not otherwise restricted by the provisions of this
title.
      8.    Manufactured homes subject to the following conditions:
         a.    All manufactured homes shall be constructed after June 15, 1976,
and bear the HUD certification seal.
         b.    The minimum width of the main portion of the structure shall not
be less than twenty two feet (22'), as measured across the narrowest portion.
         c.    All dwellings shall be placed on a permanent foundation in
compliance with the uniform building code as adopted by the city.
         d.    Tongues and axles on all manufactured homes shall be removed.
      9.    Retirement, nursing, convalescent, and assisted living homes.
      10.    Museums, art galleries.
      11.    Garage and rummage sales provided that:
         a.    Sales may not exceed three (3) days during any thirty (30) day
period and are limited to a maximum of eight (8) days per year.
         b.    Signs advertising the sale may not be placed on the city's right
of way.
         c.    No merchandise offered for sale may be placed on the city's
right of way.
   C.    Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory uses in an R-
3 district:
      1.    Private garages, parking spaces and carports. Private garages are
intended for use to store the private passenger vehicles of the family or
families resident upon the premises, and in which no business service or
industry is carried on. Such space can be rented to noncommercial vehicles,
trailers or equipment if sufficient off street parking in full compliance with
this chapter is provided elsewhere on the property.
      2.    Recreational vehicles and equipment.
      3.    Home occupations as regulated by section
10-5-10 of this title.
      4.    Noncommercial greenhouses and conservatories.
      5.    Private swimming pool, tennis courts and other recreational
facilities which are operated for the enjoyment and convenience of the
residents of the principal use and their guests.
      6.    Tool houses, sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic
supplies and noncommercial recreational equipment.
      7.    Boarding or renting of rooms to not more than six (6) persons.
(Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
   D.    Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in an R-
3 district and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated by section
10-3-3 of this title:
      1.    Governmental and public regulated utility buildings and structures
necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city; provided,
that:
         a.    Compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained
and required setbacks and side yard requirements are met.
         b.    Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with
no outside storage.
         c.    Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      2.    Public or semipublic recreational buildings and uses including golf
courses, libraries, public swimming pools (not less than 200 feet from existing
or projected residential area) and neighborhood or community centers; public or
private educational institutes limited to elementary, junior high and senior
high schools; and religious institutions such as churches, chapels, temples and
synagogues; provided that:
         a.    Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and
landscaping is provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         b.    Adequate off street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting and directly across a public street or alley to
the principal use in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title and that such parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with
section
10-5-5 of this title.
         c.    Adequate off street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      3.    Multi-family dwellings up to thirty two (32) units per lot, special
services residences for up to sixteen (16) occupants, parks, recreational
facilities, healthcare facilities, class B home occupations, single-family
residences moved in, and recreational areas.
         a.    Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and
landscaping is provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         b.    Adequate off street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting and directly across a public street or alley to
the principal use in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title and that such parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with
section
10-5-5 of this title.
         c.    Adequate off street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    If moving a building, the provisions of section
10-5-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
         e.    If adequate draining plan, a lesser roof slope may be considered
on large multi-family structures.
      4.    Daycare facilities serving more than twelve (12) persons,
residential care facilities serving more than seven (7) persons, and group
family daycare facilities licensed under Minnesota rules, parts 9502.0315 to
9502.0445, serving more than fourteen (14) persons; provided that:
         a.    Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and
landscaping is provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         b.    Adequate off street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting and directly across a public street or alley to
the principal use in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title and that such parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with
section
10-5-5 of this title.
         c.    Adequate off street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      5.    Production, bulk delivery and storage, loading and unloading of
train cars, for nonoffensive, nontoxic products; provided that:
         a.    Access: Lot must have railroad spur access.
         b.    Enclosure: Products are completely enclosed in a permanent
structure or fenced to a height of six feet (6').
         c.    Off Street Loading: All loading and unloading of product will be
done without blocking or detouring traffic on a city street. During times in
which railroad car travels across public street reflective/proper street
signage shall be posted on both sides of the tracks.
         d.    Control Of Nuisances: No offensive vapors, noise, or vibration
(s) can be created. No products that attract rodents can be stored on these
premises.
         e.    Containment Of Product: Proper measures shall be taken to ensure
no loose product can wash from property area to public areas nor into the city
storm sewer system.
         f.    Hours Of Operation: No loading or unloading can occur prior to
seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. nor after ten o'clock (10:00) P.M.
         g.    Conditional Use: The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met. (Ord. 230, 5-6-
2002; amd. Ord. 242, 4-9-2007)
   E.    Minimum Lot Requirements And Setbacks: The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in an R-3 district subject to additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this title:
      1.    Lot Area:
         a.    Minimum seven thousand (7,000) square feet plus two thousand
five hundred (2,500) square feet for each additional dwelling unit on lot.
         b.    Minimum livable space: One thousand (1,000) square feet.
         c.    Maximum lot coverage: Sixty percent (60%) of the total lot area.
         d.    Minimum roof slope: One to six (1:6).
      2.    Setbacks: All setbacks are from property lines. The street right of
way and boulevard are not part of the setback area:
         a.    Front Yard: Not less than twenty five feet (25').
         b.    Side Yard:
            (1)    Lots: Eight feet (8').
            (2)    Accessory structures: Eight feet (8') minimum unless a
garage entrance faces into a street in which case the setback will be eighteen
feet (18') to accommodate a vehicle from encroaching onto the public right of
way.
         c.    Rear Yard:
            (1)    Footage: Eight feet (8').
            (2)    Accessory structures: Eight feet (8'). If a garage entrance
faces onto a street the minimum setback will be eighteen feet (18') to
accommodate a vehicle from encroaching onto the public right of way.
         d.    Corner Lot: If a corner lot has a boulevard area of fourteen
feet (14') or more, the front yard may be set as the direction the main house
entrance faces. The other side may be treated as a side yard setback. (Traffic
visibility must be maintained with no extensions allowed into the side yard,
i.e., deck, steps.)
   F.    Maximum Building Height: The following maximum building heights will
apply in the R-3 district subject to additional requirements, exceptions, and
modifications set forth in this title:
      1.    Dwelling units or principal buildings: Thirty five feet (35').
      2.    Accessory buildings: As governed by section
10-5-9 of this title.
   G.    Supplemental Standards: The supplemental standards are listed and
enforced under chapter 5 of this title (i.e., parking lot, loading space,
signs, fences and screening, drainage, traffic visibility, and grading). (Ord.
230, 5-6-2002)
10-4-5: R-4 MANUFACTURED HOUSING RESIDENTIAL:
   A.    Purpose: It is the purpose of the R-4 district to provide for the
development of high quality manufactured housing park residential areas which
promote the sense of quiet, well kept single-family neighborhoods.
   B.    Permitted Uses:
      1.    Single-family, detached, manufactured housing, and manufactured
home park offices shall be permitted in the R-4 district unless otherwise
specified in the provisions of this title. No new mobile home parks may be
established unless otherwise specified in the provisions of this title. No new
mobile home parks may be established or no existing mobile home parks may be
expanded or modified unless zoned manufactured housing residential (R-4).
      2.    Parks, playgrounds.
   C.    Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory uses in an R-
4 district:
      1.    Private garages, parking spaces and carports. Private garages are
intended for use to store the private passenger vehicles of the family or
families resident upon the premises, and in which no business service or
industry is carried on. Such space can be rented to noncommercial vehicles,
trailers or equipment if sufficient off street parking in full compliance with
this title is provided elsewhere on the property.
      2.    Recreational vehicles and equipment.
      3.    Home occupations as regulated by section
10-5-10 of this title.
      4.    Noncommercial greenhouses and conservatories.
      5.    Tool houses, sheds and similar buildings for storage of domestic
supplies and noncommercial recreational equipment.
      6.    Community laundry facilities, storm shelter, park office,
recreational building(s); provided that such structures are of a permanent
nature and comply with the provisions of the state uniform building code.
   D.    Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in an R-
4 district and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
in and regulated by section
10-3-3 of this title:
      1.    Convenience establishments of a commercial nature, (coin operated
laundries, grocery stores, dry cleaning establishments, and beauty and barber
shops) may be permitted in mobile home parks subject to the following
restrictions:
         a.    Such establishments and parking areas primarily related to their
operations shall not occupy more than ten percent (10%) of the area of the
park.
         b.    Shall be located, designed and intended to serve frequent trade
or service needs of persons residing in the park.
         c.    Shall present no visible evidence of their commercial character
to any portion of any residential district outside of the park.
      2.    Governmental and public regulated utility buildings and structures
necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city; provided,
that:
         a.    Compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained
and required setbacks and side yard requirements are met.
         b.    Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with
no outside storage.
         c.    Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      3.    Public or semipublic recreational buildings and uses including golf
courses and neighborhood or community centers; public or private educational
institutes limited to elementary, junior high and senior high schools; and
religious institutions such as churches, chapels, temples and synagogues;
provided that:
         a.    Side yards shall be double that required for the district, but
no greater than thirty feet (30').
         b.    Adequate screening from abutting residential uses and
landscaping is provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         c.    Adequate off street parking and access is provided on the site
or on lots directly abutting and directly across a public street or alley to
the principal use in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title and that such parking is adequately screened and
landscaped from surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with
section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    Adequate off street loading and service entrances are provided
and regulated where applicable by section
10-5-1 of this title.
         e.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
   E.    General Provisions:
      1.    Drainage And Landscaping: All land area shall be adequately
drained, landscaped to control dust, and clean and free from refuse, garbage,
rubbish or debris.
      2.    Tents: No tents shall be used for other than recreational purposes
in a manufactured housing park.
      3.    Outdoor Camping: There shall be no outdoor camping anywhere in a
manufactured housing park.
      4.    Recreational Vehicles: Allow recreational vehicle use on designated
lots.
      5.    Access Approval: Access to manufactured housing parks shall be as
approved by the city.
      6.    Structures: Permits must be obtained for construction of buildings
or structures.
      7.    Enclosure Of Lower Areas; Inspection: The area beneath a
manufactured housing unit shall be enclosed with a compatible material except
that such enclosure must have access for inspection.
      8.    Storm Shelters: A manufactured housing park shall have a storm
shelter adequate for the number of rental spaces. Such shelter shall have
adequate heating and be maintained in a safe, clean and sanitary condition.
      9.    Completion Of Spaces Before Occupancy: The minimum number of spaces
completed and ready for occupancy before the first occupancy is permitted in a
new mobile/manufactured home park shall be ten (10) units.
      10.    Length Of Rental: No space shall be rented except for periods of
thirty (30) days or more.
      11.    Tie Down And Blocking Requirements: Blocking, anchors and tie
downs shall be placed in accordance with Minnesota state law and regulations.
      12.    Inspection: All manufactured homes shall comply with state and
local fire, health and building regulations.
      13.    Refuse Disposal: Garbage, waste and trash disposal must be
approved by the city and must conform to all state and local health and
pollution control regulations.
   F.    Site Plan Requirements: At the time of application for rezoning to a
manufactured housing residential district (R-4), the applicant must submit a
site plan to the city. The applicant shall be bound by said site plan after the
rezoning to manufactured housing residential district (R-4). Thereafter, no
zoning permit shall be issued unless in conformance with the approved site plan
by the city council. The site plan shall include:
      1.    The name and address of all owners and developers of the proposed
mobile home court.
      2.    The legal description and lot size in acres of the proposed mobile
home court.
      3.    The location and size of all mobile home lots, convenience
establishments, storage areas, recreation areas and facilities, landscaping,
existing tree growth, water areas, roadways, sidewalks and parking sites.
      4.    Detailed landscaping and grading plans and specifications.
      5.    Plans for sanitary sewage disposal, surface drainage, fire
hydrants, water systems, electrical services, gas services, cable television,
street lighting, and topography diagrams.
      6.    Location and size of all public roadways abutting the mobile home
park and all street and sidewalk accesses from such street and sidewalk to the
mobile home court.
      7.    Preliminary road construction plans and specifications including
cross section and curb details.
      8.    Preliminary floor plans and elevation for all permanent structures.
      9.    Description and method of disposing of garbage and refuse.
      10.    Staging and timing of construction program regardless of whether
the entire area will be developed at one time or in stages.
      11.    Such other reasonable information as shall be required by the
city.
      12.    The scale for all drawings shall be one inch (1") to one hundred
feet (100').
   G.    Design Standards:
      1.    Park Size: The minimum area required for a manufactured housing
park designation shall be two (2) acres.
      2.    Density: Notwithstanding the type of development concept or plan
used, the maximum average density in a manufactured home park shall be twelve
(12) manufactured homes per gross acre.
      3.    Individual Manufactured Housing Site (Homes 14 Feet Wide Or Less):
         a.    Minimum Land Area: Each manufactured housing site shall contain
at least five thousand (5,000) square feet of land area for the exclusive use
of the occupant:
            (1)    Width: No less than fifty feet (50').
            (2)    Depth: No less than one hundred feet (100').
         b.    Frontage On Street Or Roadway; Marking Of Site: Each
manufactured housing site shall have frontage on an approved street or roadway
and the corner of each manufactured home shall be marked and each site shall be
numbered.
         c.    Individual Home Sites (Homes In Excess Of 14 Feet, But Less Than
18 Feet In Width):
            (1)    Each manufactured housing site shall contain at least six
thousand fifty (6,050) square feet of land area for the exclusive use of the
occupants:
               (A)    Width: No less than fifty five feet (55').
               (B)    Depth: No less than one hundred ten feet (110').
            (2)    Each manufactured housing site shall have frontage on an
approved street or roadway and the corner of each manufactured home site shall
be marked and each site shall be numbered.
         d.    Individual Manufactured Housing Sites (Homes Over 18 Feet In
Width):
            (1)    Each manufactured housing site shall contain at least six
thousand five hundred (6,500) square feet of land area for the exclusive use of
the occupant.
               (A)    Width: No less than sixty five feet (65').
               (B)    Depth: No less than one hundred feet (100').
            (2)    Each manufactured housing site shall have frontage on an
approved street or roadway and the corner of each manufactured home site shall
be marked and each site shall be numbered.
         e.    Lot Coverage: The manufactured home stand and manufactured home
unit including accessory structures shall not cover more than sixty five
percent (65%) of the manufactured home lot.
         f.    Individual Manufactured Housing Unit Site Setbacks:
            (1)    In manufactured housing parks existing prior to November 1,
1988, no housing unit shall be located closer than ten feet (10') to its side
lot lines nor closer than fifteen feet (15') to its front lot line, or within
ten feet (10') of its rear lot line.
            (2)    In all manufactured housing parks developed after the
adaptation of this title, no housing unit shall be located closer than ten feet
(10') to its side lot lines nor closer than thirty feet (30') to its front lot
line, or within ten feet (10') of its rear lot line.
            (3)    All accessory structures such as awnings, cabanas, storage
sheds, carports, windbreaks, entryways or solar energy systems shall be located
no closer than three feet (3') from any property line and in no case closer
than ten feet (10') to the nearest adjoining manufactured home.
         g.    Building Requirements:
            (1)    No principal structure shall exceed one story or twenty five
feet (25'), whichever is least.
            (2)    No accessory structure shall exceed fifteen feet (15') in
height.
            (3)    The unit structure is in compliance with the Guidelines for
Manufactured Housing Installation, International Conference of Building
Officials, 1983, as may be amended.
            (4)    No manufactured home stand shall be used for parking more
than one manufactured home.
         h.    Parking:
            (1)    Each manufactured housing site shall have off street parking
space for two (2) automobiles. All parking stalls shall be completely on the
home lot they serve.
            (2)    Each manufactured housing park:
               (A)    Shall maintain additional hard surfaced off street
parking lot(s) for guests of occupants in the amount of one space for each
three (3) home sites.
               (B)    Access drives off streets and roads to all parking spaces
and unit sites shall be hard surfaced according to specifications established
by the city.
         i.    Utilities:
            (1)    All manufactured housing units shall be connected to the
city's public water and sanitary sewer system.
            (2)    All installations for disposal of surface storm water must
be approved by the city.
            (3)    All utility connections shall be as approved by the city.
            (4)    The source of fuel for cooking, heating or other purposes at
each manufactured housing site shall be as approved by the city.
            (5)    All manufactured housing units shall be provided with
telephone and electrical outlets.
            (6)    All utilities shall be underground; there shall be no
overhead wires or supporting poles except those essential for street or other
lighting purposes set forth herein.
            (7)    No obstruction shall be permitted that impedes the
inspection of plumbing, electrical facilities and related mobile home
equipment.
            (8)    The owner shall pay any required sewer connection fees to
the city.
            (9)    The owner shall pay inspection and testing fees to the city.
            (10)    Facilities for fire protection shall be installed as
required by the city.
         j.    Internal Roads And Streets:
            (1)    Roads and streets shall be bituminous or concrete surfaced
as approved by the city.
            (2)    All roads and streets shall have a concrete (mountable, roll
type) curb and gutter.
            (3)    All streets shall be developed with a roadbed of not less
than thirty two feet (32') in width and collector streets of not less than
thirty six feet (36') in width. If parking is permitted on street then the
roadbed shall be at least thirty six feet (36') in width. To qualify for the
lesser sized street, adequate off street parking must be provided and
demonstrated.
            (4)    The use of cul-de-sac streets in manufactured home parks
shall be discouraged. If they are constructed, cul-de-sacs shall have a minimum
of a forty foot (40') radius roadbed.
            (5)    State and local traffic laws shall govern the operation of
motor vehicles upon all dedicated streets in a mobile/manufactured home park.
            (6)    The manufactured home park shall have a street lighting plan
approved by the city.
         k.    Recreation:
            (1)    All manufactured housing parks shall have at least ten
percent (10%) of the land developed for recreational use (tennis courts,
children's play equipment, swimming pool, golf green, etc.) developed and
maintained at the owner/operator's expense. Such areas shall be so located so
as to be free of traffic hazards.
            (2)    In lieu of land dedication for public park purposes, a cash
contribution as established by the city subdivision regulations, as may be
amended or updated, shall be paid to the city.
         l.    Grading: Each manufactured home stand and lot shall have a
longitudinal grade of not less than four percent (4%) in traverse crown or
grade to provide adequate surface drainage.
         m.    Landscaping:
            (1)    Each site shall be properly landscaped with trees, hedges,
grass, fences, windbreaks and the like.
            (2)    A compact hedge, redwood fence or landscaped area shall be
installed around each manufactured home park and be maintained in first class
condition at all times as approved.
            (3)    All areas shall be landscaped in accordance with landscaping
plans approved by the city.
         n.    Lighting:
            (1)    Artificial light shall be maintained during all hours of
darkness in all buildings containing public toilets, laundry equipment or
common facilities for park occupant's use.
            (2)    The manufactured housing park grounds shall be lighted as
approved by the city from sunset to sunrise.
         o.    Storage:
            (1)    Enclosed storage lockers (when provided) shall be located
whether adjacent to the manufactured home in a manufactured housing park or at
such other places in the park as to be convenient to the unit for which it is
provided.
            (2)    Storage of large items such as boats, boat trailers,
recreation vehicles, etc., shall be accommodated in a separate secured and
screened area of the park. No parking of such vehicles or equipment shall be
permitted on the housing site.
         p.    Removal: Manufactured home stand and lot shall be at such
elevation, distance and position relative to the street or roadway and driveway
that placement and removal of manufactured home with a tractor, truck or other
moving equipment can be accomplished in a practical and reasonable manner.
         q.    General: For those items not specifically referenced, the design
standards as established by the subdivision regulations, as may be amended,
shall be utilized for general development guideline.
   H.    Registration: It shall be the duty of the operator of the manufactured
housing park to keep a record of all homeowners and occupants located within
the park. The register shall contain the following information:
      1.    The name and address of each unit occupant.
      2.    The name and address of the owner of each unit.
      3.    The make, model and year of the unit.
      4.    The state, territory or country issuing such license.
      5.    The date of arrival and departure of each unit.
      6.    The number and type of motor vehicles of residents of the park.
The park operator shall keep the register available for inspection at all times
by authorized city, state and county official, public health officials and
other public offices whose duty necessitates acquisition of the information
contained in the register. The register shall not be destroyed until after a
period of three (3) years following the date of departure of the registrant
from the park.
   I.    Maintenance: The operator and/or owner of any manufactured housing
park, or a duly authorized attendant and/or caretaker shall be responsible at
all times for keeping the park, it facilities and equipment, in a clean,
orderly, operable and sanitary condition. The attendant or caretaker shall be
answerable along with said operator/owner, for the violation of any provisions
of these regulations to which said owner/operator is subject.
   J.    Review Procedures: All informational elements as required in this
chapter shall be submitted to the city in accordance with the normal time
schedule outlined for zoning district amendments, whether or not the proposal
requires a rezoning. Proposals for manufactured housing park expansions on
properly zoned land shall be reviewed for compliance with the applicable
standards and requirements contained in this chapter by all designated and
official city review bodies.
   K.    Lot Requirements: The following minimum requirements shall be observed
in the R-4 district:
      1.    Maximum lot coverage: sixty five percent (65%).
      2.    Minimum lot width: fifty feet (50').
      3.    Minimum lot size: five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      4.    Minimum liveable space: eight hundred (800) square feet.
   L.    Lot Setbacks: The following minimum requirements shall be observed in
the R-4 district for any lots adjacent to a city street:
      1.    Front yard setback: twenty feet (20').
      2.    Rear yard setback: five feet (5').
      3.    Side yard setback: eight feet (8').
      4.    Corner Lot: If a corner lot has a boulevard area of fourteen feet
(14') or more, the front yard may be set as the direction the main manufactured
home entrance faces. The other side may be treated as a side yard setback.
(Traffic visibility must be maintained with no extensions allowed into the side
yard, i.e., deck, steps.)
   M.    Supplemental Standards: The supplemental standards are listed and
enforced under chapter 5 of this title (i.e., parking lot, loading space,
signs, fences and screening, drainage, traffic visibility, and grading). (Ord.
230, 5-6-2002)
10-4-6: C-1 CENTRAL COMMERCIAL:
   A.    Purpose: The purpose of the C-1 central commercial district is for the
development and maintenance of a public and business district which acts as an
image maker, a community center, and a primary business location for the
community. It is intended to be a pedestrian oriented place which provides for
a wide variety of commercial activities that will result in the most intensive
and attractive use of the city's historical business center.
   B.    Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in a C-1 district:
      1.    Animal clinics and hospitals with no overnight care, outside pens
or exercise yards.
      2.    Antique stores.
      3.    Apartments.
      4.    Appliance sales and service stores.
      5.    Art galleries, museums, art and school supply stores.
      6.    Auto service, accessory and parts stores. Minor auto repair, tire
sale and service.
      7.    Bakery goods and baking goods for retail sales on the premises and
bakery outlet stores.
      8.    Bank, savings and loan, savings credit unions and other financial
institutions.
      9.    Barber and beauty school, business colleges, modeling school, trade
and vocational schools.
      10.    Barber and beauty shops to include tanning facilities.
      11.    Bicycle sales and repair stores.
      12.    Bookstores.
      13.    Bowling alleys, billiard parlors, rollerskating and similar indoor
recreational uses.
      14.    Business and professional offices.
      15.    Cable television distributors.
      16.    Camera and photographic supply stores.
      17.    Candy, ice cream, popcorn, nuts, frozen desserts and soft drinks
stores.
      18.    Carpet, rugs and tile stores.
      19.    Churches, synagogues and temples.
      20.    Civic centers, conference centers, city, county, state and federal
offices, libraries, parks and playgrounds, police and fire stations.
      21.    Clinics (dental, medical and chiropractic).
      22.    Cocktail lounges and nightclubs.
      23.    Coffee or cappuccino stores.
      24.    Coin and stamp stores.
      25.    Commercial and professional offices.
      26.    Commercial film developing and processing stores.
      27.    Confectioneries.
      28.    Convenience store without gasoline.
      29.    Copy service shops.
      30.    Costume and clothing rental stores.
      31.    Dairy products store.
      32.    Dance studio.
      33.    Delicatessen.
      34.    Department and discount stores.
      35.    Drapery stores.
      36.    Drugstores.
      37.    Dry cleaning and laundries including plant accessory heretofore,
pressing and repair.
      38.    Dry cleaning pick up and laundry pick up stations incidental
repair and assembly but not including processing.
      39.    Dry goods store.
      40.    Electrical or gas appliance stores including incidental repair and
assembly hereto.
      41.    Employment agencies.
      42.    Essential services.
      43.    Fabric stores.
      44.    Finance companies.
      45.    Florists.
      46.    Furniture and home furnishing stores.
      47.    Furriers when conducted only for retail trade on the premises.
      48.    General contractors (office only).
      49.    General merchandise stores.
      50.    Gift or novelty store.
      51.    Grocery, fruit or vegetable stores, but not including sales from
movable, motorized vehicles.
      52.    Grocery, supermarket.
      53.    Haberdasheries and ladies ready to wear stores.
      54.    Hardware stores.
      55.    Health clubs – including tennis, handball, racquetball,
basketball, dance, bodybuilding and toning and weight and diet related
facilities.
      56.    Health food stores.
      57.    Hobby shops.
      58.    Hospitals.
      59.    Insurance sales, claims and branch offices.
      60.    Interior decorating.
      61.    Jewelry stores.
      62.    Leather goods and luggage stores.
      63.    Liquor stores, including on and off sale establishments.
      64.    Locksmiths.
      65.    Mail order houses.
      66.    Massage parlors.
      67.    Meat market, but not including processing for a locker plant.
      68.    Medical and dental offices and clinics.
      69.    Mortuaries and funeral homes.
      70.    Motels, motor hotels and hotels.
      71.    Museums, art galleries, and community learning resource centers.
      72.    Music stores.
      73.    Nightclubs.
      74.    Office equipment and supply stores.
      75.    Optical centers.
      76.    Paint and wallpaper stores.
      77.    Parking lots and ramps.
      78.    Pawnshops.
      79.    Pet shops with no outside pens or exercise yards.
      80.    Plumbing and heating shops.
      81.    Plumbing, television, radio, electrical sales and such repairs as
are accessory use to the retail establishment permitted within this district.
      82.    Printing shops.
      83.    Private clubs or lodges serving food and beverages.
      84.    Public and private schools.
      85.    Radio and television broadcasting studios and offices.
      86.    Real estate sales.
      87.    Record/music stores.
      88.    Restaurants, cafes, on and off sale liquor.
      89.    Sewing machine sales and service.
      90.    Shoe and footwear stores.
      91.    Shoe repair shops.
      92.    Sporting goods stores.
      93.    Tailor shops.
      94.    Tattoo parlors.
      95.    Theaters (excluding outdoor drive-in type).
      96.    Tobacco shops.
      97.    Toy stores.
      98.    Transportation terminals and stations.
      99.    Travel bureaus or agencies, transportation ticket offices.
      100.    Variety stores, 5- and 10-cent stores, and stores of similar
nature.
      101.    Watch and clock repair and sales.
      102.    Wearing apparel stores.
      103.   Cannabis and low potency hemp retail.
   C.    Accessory Uses: The following accessory uses are permitted in a C-
1 district:
      1.    Commercial or business buildings and structures for a use accessory
to the principal use but such use shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
gross floor space of the principal use.
      2.    Off street parking as regulated by section
10-5-1 of this title, but not including semitrailer trucks.
      3.    Off street loading as regulated by section
10-5-1 of this title.
   D.    Conditional Uses: The following uses are conditional uses in a C-
1 district and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
and regulated by section
10-3-3 of this title.
      1.    Public regulated utility buildings, structures necessary for the
health, safety and general welfare of the community, miniwarehouse or storage
garages with no outdoor storage; provided that:
         a.    Compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained
and required setbacks and side yard requirements are met.
         b.    Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with
no outside storage.
         c.    Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      2.    Multiple-family dwelling structures up to twelve (12) units;
provided that:
         a.    There is adequate off street parking in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title.
         b.    One off street loading space in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title.
         c.    Parking areas are screened and landscaped from view of
surrounding and abutting residential districts in accordance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
         e.    All signing and informal or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with the applicable provisions of this code.
         f.    The principal use structure is in compliance with the state
uniform building code.
         g.    Usable open space is equal to twenty percent (20%) of the gross
lot area.
      3.    Residential facilities, daycare facilities, retirement, nursing,
rest or convalescent homes; provided, that:
         a.    Only the rear yard shall be used for play or recreational areas.
Said side area shall be fenced and controlled and screened in compliance with
section
10-5-5 of this title.
         b.    The site and related parking and service entrances are serviced
by an arterial or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the
traffic which will be generated.
         c.    Adequate off street parking is provided in compliance with
section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    Adequate off street loading is provided in compliance with
section
10-5-1 of this title.
         e.    Vehicular entrances to parking or service areas shall create a
minimum of conflict with through traffic movement.
         f.    When abutting a residential district, a buffer area with
screening and landscaping in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title shall be provided.
         g.    All state laws and statutes governing such use are strictly
adhered to and all operating permits are secured.
         h.    All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with the applicable provisions of this code.
         i.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      4.    Elderly (senior citizen) housing; provided, that:
         a.    Not more than ten percent (10%) of the occupants may be under
the age of sixty (60).
         b.    There is adequate off street parking in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title.
         c.    One off street loading space in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    Parking areas are screened and landscaped from view of
surrounding and abutting residential districts in compliance with sections
10-5-1,
10-5-5, and
10-5-9 of this title.
         e.    All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with section
10-5-4 of this title.
         f.    The principal use structure is in compliance with the state
uniform building code.
         g.    Elevator service is provided to each floor above ground level.
         h.    "Usable open space" as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title at a minimum is equal to twenty percent (20%) of the gross
lot area.
         i.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      5.    Commercial car washes (drive-through, mechanical and self-
service); provided that:
         a.    Stacking space is constructed subject to the approval of the
city engineer.
         b.    At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than five feet (5') shall be screened in compliance with this title.
         c.    Parking or car storage space shall be screened from view of
abutting residential districts in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The entire area other than occupied by the building or plantings
shall be surfaced with material which will control dust and drainage which is
subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         e.    The entire area shall have a drainage system which is subject to
the approval of the city.
         f.    All lighting shall be hooded and so directed so as not to be in
violation of the provisions of section
10-5-8 of this title.
         g.    Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum
of conflict with through traffic movement and shall be subject to the approval
of the city engineer.
         h.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 are considered and satisfactorily met.
      6.    Cabinet shops with no outdoor storage; provided that:
         a.    Compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained
and required setbacks and side yard requirements are met.
         b.    Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with
no outside storage.
         c.    Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
         e.    Must ensure proper safety and storage of all chemicals and
flammable materials on property.
      7.    Production, assembly or processing of nonoffensive electronic
instruments; provided that:
         a.    Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with
no outside storage.
         b.    Off street loading: A loading ramp is required on the premises
as regulated by section
10-5-1 of this title.
         c.    Control of nuisances: No offensive vapors, noise, or vibration
(s) can be created.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
   E.    Minimum Lot Requirements And Setbacks: The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in a C-1 district subject to additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this title:
      1.    Lot area: One thousand two hundred fifty (1,250) square feet.
      2.    Lot width: Twenty five feet (25').
      3.    Setbacks are from property lines. The street right of way and
boulevard are not part of the setback area:
         a.    Front yards: Zero.
         b.    Side yards: Zero–existing; three feet (3')–new structures.
         c.    Rear yards: Zero–existing; three feet (3')–new structures.
      4.    Maximum lot coverage: Eighty percent (80%).
   F.    Maximum Building Height: The following maximum building heights will
apply in the C-1 district subject to additional requirements, exceptions, and
modifications set forth in this title:
      1.    Principal buildings: Thirty five feet (35').
      2.    Accessory buildings: As governed by section
10-5-9 of this title.
   G.    Supplemental Standards: The supplemental standards are listed and
enforced under chapter 5 of this title (i.e., parking lot, loading space,
signs, fences and screening, drainage, traffic visibility, and grading). (Ord.
230, 5-6-2002; amd. Ord. 235, 6-14-2004; Ord. 240, 12-5-2005; Ord. 298, 5-19-
2025)
10-4-7: C-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL:
   A.    Purpose: It is the purpose of the C-2 highway commercial district to
provide for the careful and attractive development of highway oriented
businesses which depend on nonlocal traffic for a substantial portion of their
business and which create substantial negative impacts to city infrastructure
if located in areas not adjacent to state and federal highways:
   B.    Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in a C-2 district:
      1.    Agricultural implement dealerships.
      2.    Amusement parks.
      3.    Animal clinics and hospitals with no overnight care, outside pens
or exercise yards.
      4.    Animal hospitals, animal shelters, veterinary clinics; animal
hospitals, animal shelters and veterinary clinics without outside pens or
exercise yards.
      5.    Antique stores.
      6.    Appliance sales and service stores.
      7.    Art galleries, museums, art and school supply stores.
      8.    Auto service, accessory and parts stores.
      9.    Automobile and truck body repair shops (excluding salvage yards).
      10.    Auto sales, service and repair and mobile home sales, service and
repair.
      11.    Bakery goods and baking goods for retail sales on the premises and
bakery outlet stores.
      12.    Bank, savings and loan, savings credit unions and other financial
institutions.
      13.    Barber and beauty school, business colleges, modeling school,
trade and vocational schools.
      14.    Barber and beauty shops to include tanning facilities.
      15.    Bicycle sales and repair stores.
      16.    Bookstores.
      17.    Bowling alleys, billiard parlors, rollerskating, dance halls and
similar indoor recreational uses.
      18.    Business and professional offices.
      19.    Cable television distributors.
      20.    Camera and photographic supply stores.
      21.    Candy, ice cream, popcorn, nuts, frozen desserts and soft drinks
stores.
      22.    Carpenter and cabinet shops.
      23.    Carpet, rugs and tile stores.
      24.    Churches, synagogues and temples.
      25.    Civic centers, conference centers, city, county, state and federal
offices, libraries, parks and playgrounds, police and fire stations.
      26.    Clinics (dental, medical and chiropractic).
      27.    Coffee and cappuccino shops.
      28.    Coin and stamp stores.
      29.    Commercial and professional offices.
      30.    Commercial film developing and processing stores.
      31.    Confectioneries.
      32.    Convenience store with or without gasoline.
      33.    Copy service shops.
      34.    Costume and clothing rental stores.
      35.    Dairy products store.
      36.    Dance studio.
      37.    Delicatessen.
      38.    Department and discount stores.
      39.    Drapery stores.
      40.    Drugstores.
      41.    Dry cleaning and laundries including plant accessory heretofore,
pressing and repair.
      42.    Dry cleaning pick up and laundry pick up stations incidental
repair and assembly but not including processing.
      43.    Dry goods store.
      44.    Electrical, heating, ventilating and air conditioning, masonry,
painting and plumbing, refrigeration and roofing where outside equipment and
storage does not exceed twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, provided that the
outside storage area is effectively screened by a site obscuring fence at least
six feet (6') in height.
      45.    Electrical or gas appliance stores including incidental repair and
assembly hereto.
      46.    Employment agencies.
      47.    Entertainment: amusement parks; drive in theaters with a minimum
of six foot (6') sight obscuring fence; go cart tracks provided that all of the
boundary lines of the lot containing such use are located at least three
hundred feet (300') from any existing residential district; health clubs.
      48.    Essential services.
      49.    Fabric stores.
      50.    Finance companies.
      51.    Florists.
      52.    Furniture and home furnishing stores.
      53.    Furniture refinishing.
      54.    Furriers when conducted only for retail trade on the premises.
      55.    Garage storage and ministorage warehouses.
      56.    General contractors (office only).
      57.    General merchandise stores.
      58.    Gift or novelty store.
      59.    Golf driving ranges, miniature golf courses and public golf
courses.
      60.    Grocery, fruit or vegetable stores, but not including sales from
movable, motorized vehicles.
      61.    Grocery, supermarket.
      62.    Haberdasheries and ladies ready to wear stores.
      63.    Hardware stores.
      64.    Health clubs – including tennis, handball, racquetball,
basketball, dance, bodybuilding and toning and weight and diet related
facilities.
      65.    Health food stores.
      66.    Heavy equipment sales, service and repair.
      67.    Hobby shops.
      68.    Hospitals.
      69.    Insurance sales, claims and branch offices.
      70.    Interior decorating.
      71.    Jewelry stores.
      72.    Leather goods and luggage stores.
      73.    Liquor stores, including on and off sale establishments.
      74.    Locksmiths.
      75.    Lumberyards provided that the outside storage area is effectively
screened by a sight obscuring fence at least six feet (6') in height.
      76.    Mail order houses.
      77.    Meat market, but not including processing for a locker plant.
      78.    Medical and dental offices and clinics.
      79.    Mortuaries and funeral homes.
      80.    Motels and hotels.
      81.    Motor fuel stations, auto repair – minor and tire sales and
service.
      82.    Museums, art galleries, and community learning resource centers.
      83.    Music stores.
      84.    Nurseries, landscape and gardening centers.
      85.    Office equipment and supply stores.
      86.    Optical centers.
      87.    Paint and wallpaper stores.
      88.    Parking lots and ramps.
      89.    Pawnshops.
      90.    Pet shops with no outside pens or exercise yards.
      91.    Plumbing and heating shops.
      92.    Plumbing, television, radio, electrical sales and such repairs as
are accessory use to the retail establishment permitted within this district.
      93.    Printing shops.
      94.    Private clubs or lodges serving food and beverages.
      95.    Production, assembly or processing of certain nonoffensive
materials:
         a.    Electrical appliances such as lighting fixtures, irons, fans and
toasters.
         b.    Electrical equipment assembly, such as home radio and television
receiver and home movie equipment.
         c.    Electronic instruments.
         d.    Jewelry.
         e.    Medical, dental and optical supplies.
         f.    Musical instruments.
         g.    Orthopedic and medical appliances, such as artificial limbs,
braces, supports and stretchers.
         h.    Scientific and precision instruments.
         i.    Metal fabrication.
      96.    Radio and television broadcasting studios and offices.
      97.    Real estate sales.
      98.    Record/music stores.
      99.    Residential uses; provided that one dwelling unit shall be allowed
per commercial structure, and shall be incorporated into the commercial
structure, not to be located on ground level facing onto a public street.
      100.    Restaurants: drive ins; truck stops; provided, that the parking
area containing such use shall be located at least one hundred fifty feet
(150') from any existing residential district.
      101.    Restaurants, cafes, on and off sale liquor.
      102.    Rodeo/horse riding facility.
      103.    Sewing machine sales and service.
      104.    Shoe and footwear stores.
      105.    Shoe repair shops.
      106.    Softball/baseball complex including concessions area.
      107.    Sporting goods stores.
      108.    Storage and distribution of certain nonoffensive, nontoxic
materials.
      109.    Tailor shops.
      110.    Tattoo parlors.
      111.    Theaters (excluding outdoor drive in type).
      112.    Tobacco shops.
      113.    Toy stores.
      114.    Transportation terminals and stations.
      115.    Travel bureaus or agencies, transportation ticket offices.
      116.    Variety stores, 5 and 10 cent stores, and stores of similar
nature.
      117.    Watch and clock repair and sales.
      118.    Wearing apparel stores.
      119.   Cannabis and hemp manufacturing, cannabis wholesale and cannabis
and low potency hemp edible retail.
   C.    Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory uses in a C-
2 area:
      1.    Commercial or business buildings and structures for a use accessory
to the principal use but such use shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
gross floor space of the principal use.
      2.    Off street parking as regulated by section
10-5-1 of this title, but not including semitrailer trucks.
      3.    Off street loading as regulated by section
10-5-1 of this title.
      4.    Dwelling units for guards and custodians but such dwelling units
shall not occupy the front portion of the ground floor and shall not contain
more than one bedroom.
      5.    Outdoor storage, sales, rental and service subject to section
10-5-10 of this title.
      6.    The stockpiling of black dirt and landscaping rock and materials
accessory to nurseries and garden centers.
   D.    Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in a C-2 district
and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth in and
regulated by section
10-3-3 of this title:
      1.    Public regulated utility buildings, structures necessary for the
health, safety and general welfare of the community; provided that:
         a.    Compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained
and required setbacks and side yard requirements are met.
         b.    Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with
no outside storage.
         c.    Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      2.    Multiple-family dwelling structures up to thirty six (36) units;
provided that:
         a.    There is adequate off street parking in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title.
         b.    One off street loading space in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title.
         c.    Parking areas are screened and landscaped from view of
surrounding and abutting residential districts in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    All signing and informal or visual communication devices shall
be in compliance with the applicable provisions of this code.
         e.    The principal use structure is in compliance with the state
uniform building code.
         f.    Usable open space is equal to twenty percent (20%) of the gross
lot area.
         g.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
         h.    Vehicular entrances to parking or service areas shall create a
minimum of conflict with through traffic movement.
      3.    Residential facilities, daycare facilities, retirement, nursing,
rest or convalescent homes; provided, that:
         a.    Only the rear yard shall be used for play or recreational areas.
Said side area shall be fenced and controlled and screened in compliance with
section
10-5-5 of this title.
         b.    The site and related parking and service entrances are serviced
by an arterial or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the
traffic which will be generated.
         c.    Adequate off street parking is provided in compliance with
section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    Adequate off street loading is provided in compliance with
section
10-5-1 of this title.
         e.    Vehicular entrances to parking or service areas shall create a
minimum of conflict with through traffic movement.
         f.    When abutting a residential district, a buffer area with
screening and landscaping in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title shall be provided.
         g.    All state laws and statutes governing such use are strictly
adhered to and all operating permits are secured.
         h.    All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with the applicable provisions of this code.
         i.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      4.    Elderly (senior citizen) housing; provided, that:
         a.    Not more than ten percent (10%) of the occupants may be under
the age of sixty (60).
         b.    There is adequate off street parking in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title.
         c.    One off street loading space in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    Parking areas are screened and landscaped from view of
surrounding and abutting residential districts in compliance with sections
10-5-1,
10-5-5, and
10-5-9 of this title.
         e.    All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with section
10-5-4 of this title.
         f.    The principal use structure is in compliance with the state
uniform building code.
         g.    Elevator service is provided to each floor above ground level.
         h.    "Usable open space" as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title at a minimum is equal to twenty percent (20%) of the gross
lot area.
         i.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      5.    Commercial car washes (drive-through, mechanical and self-
service); provided that:
         a.    Stacking space is constructed to accommodate that number of
vehicles which can be washed during a maximum thirty (30) minute period and
shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         b.    At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than five feet (5') shall be screened in compliance with this title.
         c.    Parking or car storage space shall be screened from view of
abutting residential districts in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The entire area other than occupied by the building or plantings
shall be surfaced with material which will control dust and drainage which is
subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         e.    The entire area shall have a drainage system which is subject to
the approval of the city.
         f.    All lighting shall be hooded and so directed so as not to be in
violation of the provisions of section
10-5-8 of this title.
         g.    Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum
of conflict with through traffic movement and shall be subject to the approval
of the city engineer.
         h.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      6.    Drive-in type restaurants and convenience food establishments
provided that:
         a.    There is adequate off street parking in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title.
         b.    There is adequate stacking space for drive-in service so as to
prevent stacking on public streets or stacking which would interfere with the
required parking lots.
      7.    Single-family residential provided that:
         a.    They are in compliance with all provisions of R-2 district.
         b.    Vehicular entrances to parking or service areas shall create a
minimum of conflict with through traffic movement.
         c.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      8.   High density multiple-family apartment dwellings with multiple
principal structures on one lot; provided that:
         a.   There is adequate off-street parking with minimum as follows: 1½
spaces per efficiency unit; 2 spaces for 1 and 2 bedroom units; and 2½ spaces
for 3 or more bedroom units. Spaces required are in excess of those accessible
parking stalls required by state or federal law. No off-street parking space
may be used to meet the parking space requirements of this title if a separate
fee is charged to the tenant for the use of the space over and above the basic
rent for the dwelling unit.
         b.   Lot Size Requirements: The following minimum requirements shall
be observed.
            (1)   Lot area one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet per
dwelling unit.
            (2)   Lot width one hundred feet (100').
            (3)   Lot depth one hundred thirty feet (130').
         c.   Setbacks: Setbacks shall be of sufficient width to accommodate
required buffering, screening and landscaping, required by section 10-5-5 of
this title.
            (1)   Front yard: Not less than twenty-five feet (25').
            (2)   Side yard: Forty feet (40') along any principal or minor
arterial. Thirty feet (30') along any other street. Twenty feet (20') for any
other side yard setback.
               (A)   Accessory building, structures, and uses: A minimum of
five feet (5') from a lot line, except a minimum of twelve feet (12') from a
lot line when abutting a street right-of-way.
            (3)   Rear yard: Principal buildings: Twenty-five feet (25').
               (A)   Accessory buildings, structures, and uses: A minimum of
five feet (5') from a lot line, except a minimum of twelve feet (12') from a
lot line when abutting a street right-of-way.
         d.   Maximum Building Height:
            (1)   Dwelling units or principal buildings: Forty-five feet (45').
            (2)   Accessory buildings: Twenty feet (20').
         e.   Maximum Building Coverage: No structure or combination of
structures shall occupy more than seventy percent (70%) of the lot area.
         f.   Vehicular Entrances To Lot: Minimum Requirements: Two (2)
entrances to the property with at least a clear twenty-five feet (25') driving
lane for emergency vehicles to travel with access to one (1) side of each
principal building (long side). Entrances shall create a minimum of conflict
with through traffic movement.
         g.   All signing and informal or visual communication devices shall be
in compliance with the applicable provision of this code.
         h.   Fire Protections: The city may require the applicant to provide a
utility easement and pay for the extension of a fire hydrant if the buildings
are placed in such a way as to exceed the recommended distance from an existing
fire hydrant.
         i.   The provision of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
   E.    Minimum Lot Requirements And Setbacks: The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in a C-2 district subject to additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this title:
      1.    Lot Area:
         a.    Lot area: Five thousand (5,000) square feet.
         b.    Multi-family dwelling units: Require a minimum seven thousand
(7,000) square feet (plus 2,500 square feet for each additional dwelling unit
on lot).
      2.    Maximum Lot Coverage: Sixty percent (60%).
      3.    Setbacks: All setbacks are from property lines. The street right of
way and boulevard are not part of the setback area.
         a.    Front yard: Twenty feet (20').
         b.    Side yard: Ten feet (10').
         c.    Rear yard: Ten feet (10').
      4.    Corner Lot: Only one front yard is required on the side that faces
the main public street and may have the main building entrance. The remaining
side may use side lot setbacks provided no structure or visual impediment is
constructed within a distance of thirty five feet (35') from the intersection
of the property lines of the two (2) streets.
   F.    Maximum Building Height: The following maximum building heights will
apply in the C-2 district subject to additional requirements, exceptions, and
modifications set forth in this title:
      1.    Principal building: Seventy feet (70').
      2.    Accessory building: As governed by section
10-5-9 of this title.
   G.    Supplemental Standards: The supplemental standards are listed and
enforced under chapter 5 of this title (i.e., parking lot, loading space,
signs, fences and screening, drainage, traffic visibility, and grading). (Ord.
230, 5-6-2002; amd. Ord. 264, 4-7-2014; Ord. 282, 9-14-2020; Ord. 298, 5-19-
2025)
10-4-8: C-3 AGRICULTURE COMMERCIAL:
   A.    Purpose: The C-3 agriculture commercial district is established to
provide for agricultural service businesses and other types of commercial
activities which are primarily oriented toward:
      1.    Heavy equipment use, sale, or repair, and
      2.    Heavy truck traffic.
   B.    Permitted Uses:
      1.    Agriculture or heavy equipment sales and service.
      2.    Lumberyards.
      3.    Self-service storage.
      4.    Commercial greenhouses.
      5.    Construction or contractors offices and storage yards.
      6.   Cannabis cultivation (indoor), cannabis and hemp manufacturing,
cannabis wholesale and cannabis and low potency hemp edible retail.
   C.    Conditional Uses: Grain elevators; feed mills; warehouse and freight
movement; anhydrous, ammonia or petrochemical storage; pesticide and
insecticide storage and mixing; waste related uses; agricultural and aggregate
materials storage and sales; provided that there is compliance with:
      1.    Federal And State Compliance: All federal and state regulations are
followed. Documentation showing compliance with the containment and safety
regulations will be required prior to issuing a permit.
      2.    Emergency Response Plan: An emergency response plan to cover
containment, emergency notification, evacuation plan, fire and explosive
hazards, and material safety data sheets for all chemicals and noxious matter
or material stored on the premises must be provided to the city, police
department, and fire department prior to permit approval and must be updated
annually.
      3.    Drainage System: A lot drainage system subject to the approval of
the city engineer shall be installed.
      4.    Glare: Any lighting used to illuminate an off street parking area,
signs or other structures, shall be arranged as to deflect light away from any
adjoining residential zone or from the public streets. Direct or sky reflected
glare, where from floodlights or from high temperature processes such as
combustion or welding shall not be directed into any adjoining property. The
source of light shall be hooded or controlled in some manner so as not to light
adjacent property. Bare light bulbs shall not be permitted in view of adjacent
property or public right of way. Any light or combination of lights which cast
light on residential property shall not exceed four (4) foot-candles (meter
reading) as measured from said property. This section shall not apply to sports
stadiums and athletic fields or to public recreational facilities.
      5.    Refuse Location And Screening: All refuse and refuse handling
equipment including, but not limited to, garbage cans, dumpsters and recycling
containers shall be stored within the principal structure, within an accessory
building, or for exterior storage, totally screened from eye level view from
all neighboring uses.
      6.    Vehicular Access Points: Vehicular access points shall create a
minimum of conflict with through traffic movement, shall comply with section
10-5-1 of this title and shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer.
      7.    Stacking Space: Stacking space is provided that will accommodate
that number of vehicles that will be loading/unloading at the parcel within a
thirty (30) minute period.
      8.    Landscape And Screening: If the parcel is adjacent to a residential
district, a strip of not less than five feet (5') shall be landscaped and
screened in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
      9.    Exterior Storage Areas: All exterior storage areas shall be
screened from view in compliance with section
10-5-8 of this title.
      10.    Control Of Nuisances: A plan to install barriers and/or surfacing
of the lot, to control dust, noise, chaff, odor or any other possible nuisances
from adjoining properties must be submitted.
   D.    Standards:
      1.    Front yard setback: twenty five feet (25').
      2.    Rear and side yard setback: ten feet (10').
      3.    Maximum lot coverage: sixty percent (60%).
      4.    Minimum lot width: fifty feet (50').
      5.    Minimum lot size: two thousand five hundred feet (2,500').
      6.    Minimum setback from residentially zoned lots: two hundred fifty
feet (250').
   E.    Supplemental Standards: The supplemental standards are listed and
enforced under chapter 5 of this title (i.e., parking lot, loading space,
signs, fences and screening, drainage, traffic visibility, and grading). (Ord.
230, 5-6-2002; amd. Ord. 298, 5-19-2025)
10-4-9: I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL:
   A.    Purpose: It is the purpose of the I-1 light industrial district to
provide a place for uses which are generally considered industrial and benefit
from specially designed or provided infrastructure. This district is intended
to serve heavy truck traffic and assembly or distribution and warehousing
functions.
   B.    Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in an I-1 district:
      1.    Agricultural implement dealerships.
      2.    Auto and implement dealerships.
      3.    Amusement parks.
      4.    Animal clinics and hospitals with no overnight care, outside pens
or exercise yards.
      5.    Antique stores.
      6.    Appliance sales and service stores.
      7.    Art galleries, museums, art and school supply stores.
      8.    Auto sales, service and repair and mobile home sales, service and
repair.
      9.    Auto service, accessory and parts stores.
      10.    Automobile and truck body repair shops (excluding salvage yards).
      11.    Bakery goods and baking goods for retail sales on the premises and
bakery outlet stores.
      12.    Bank, savings and loan, savings credit unions and other financial
institutions.
      13.    Barber and beauty school, business colleges, modeling school,
trade and vocational schools.
      14.    Barber and beauty shops to include tanning facilities.
      15.    Bicycle sales and repair stores.
      16.    Bookstores.
      17.    Bowling alleys, billiard parlors, rollerskating and similar indoor
recreational uses.
      18.    Building materials sales stores.
      19.    Business and professional offices.
      20.    Cable television distributors.
      21.    Camera and photographic supply stores.
      22.    Candy, ice cream, popcorn, nuts, frozen desserts and soft drinks
stores.
      23.    Carpenter and cabinet shops.
      24.    Carpet, rugs and tile stores.
      25.    Cartage and express facilities.
      26.    Churches, synagogues and temples.
      27.    Civic centers, conference centers, city, county, state and federal
offices, libraries, parks and playgrounds, police and fire stations.
      28.    Clinics (dental, medical and chiropractic).
      29.    Coin and stamp stores.
      30.    Commercial and professional offices.
      31.    Commercial film developing and processing stores.
      32.    Confectioneries.
      33.    Convenience store with or without gasoline.
      34.    Copy service shops.
      35.    Costume and clothing rental stores.
      36.    Dairy products store.
      37.    Dance studio.
      38.    Delicatessen.
      39.    Department and discount stores.
      40.    Drapery stores.
      41.    Drugstores.
      42.    Dry cleaning and laundries including plant accessory heretofore,
pressing and repair.
      43.    Dry cleaning pick up and laundry pick up stations incidental
repair and assembly but not including processing.
      44.    Dry goods store.
      45.    Electrical, heating, ventilating and air conditioning, masonry,
painting and plumbing, refrigeration and roofing where outside equipment and
storage does not exceed twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, provided that the
outside storage area is effectively screened by a site obscuring fence at least
six feet (6') in height.
      46.    Electrical or gas appliance stores including incidental repair and
assembly hereto.
      47.    Employment agencies.
      48.    Entertainment: amusement parks; drive in theaters with a minimum
of six foot (6') sight obscuring fence; go cart tracks provided that all of the
boundary lines of the lot containing such use are located at least three
hundred feet (300') from any existing residential district; health clubs.
      49.    Essential services.
      50.    Fabric stores.
      51.    Finance companies.
      52.    Florists.
      53.    Furniture and home furnishing stores.
      54.    Furniture refinishing.
      55.    Furriers when conducted only for retail trade on the premises.
      56.    Garage storage.
      57.    General contractors.
      58.    General merchandise stores.
      59.    Gift or novelty store.
      60.    Golf driving ranges and miniature golf courses.
      61.    Governmental and public utility buildings and structures.
      62.    Grocery, fruit or vegetable stores, but not including sales from
movable, motorized vehicles.
      63.    Grocery, supermarket.
      64.    Haberdasheries and ladies ready to wear stores.
      65.    Hardware stores.
      66.    Health clubs – including tennis, handball, racquetball,
basketball, dance, bodybuilding and toning and weight and diet related
facilities.
      67.    Health food stores.
      68.    Heavy equipment sales, service and repair.
      69.    Hobby shops.
      70.    Hospitals.
      71.    Indoor commercial recreation.
      72.    Insurance sales, claims and branch offices.
      73.    Interior decorating.
      74.    Jewelry stores.
      75.    Leather goods and luggage stores.
      76.    Liquor stores, including on and off sale establishments.
      77.    Locksmiths.
      78.    Lumberyards provided that the outside storage area is effectively
screened by a sight obscuring fence at least six feet (6') in height.
      79.    Mail order houses.
      80.    Meat market, but not including processing for a locker plant.
      81.    Medical and dental offices and clinics.
      82.    Mortuaries and funeral homes.
      83.    Motels and hotels.
      84.    Motor fuel stations, auto repair – minor and tire sale and
service.
      85.    Museums, art galleries, and community learning resource centers.
      86.    Music stores.
      87.    Nightclubs.
      88.    Nurseries.
      89.    Office equipment and supply stores.
      90.    Optical centers.
      91.    Paint and wallpaper stores.
      92.    Parking lots and ramps.
      93.    Pawnshops.
      94.    Pet shops with no outside pens or exercise yards.
      95.    Plumbing and heating shops.
      96.    Plumbing, television, radio, electrical sales and such repairs as
are accessory use to the retail establishment permitted within this district.
      97.    Printing shops.
      98.    Private clubs or lodges serving food and beverages.
      99.    Production, assembly or processing of certain nonoffensive
materials:
         a.    Electrical appliances such as lighting fixtures, irons, fans and
toasters.
         b.    Electrical equipment assembly, such as home radio and television
receiver and home movie equipment.
         c.    Electronic instruments.
         d.    Jewelry.
         e.    Medical, dental and optical supplies.
         f.    Musical instruments.
         g.    Orthopedic and medical appliances, such as artificial limbs,
braces, supports and stretchers.
         h.    Scientific and precision instruments.
         i.    Metal fabrication.
      100.    The production, assembly or processing of materials, goods or
products limited to:
         a.    Advertising products, such as signs and billboards.
         b.    Armories.
         c.    Assembly from the following previously prepared materials: bone,
canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fur, glass, hair, horn,
leather, paper, plastic, precious or semiprecious stones, rubber, shell, wood
(excluding lumber mills) and yarn.
         d.    Automobile repair – major.
         e.    Awnings, venetian blind and window shades.
         f.    Bakery, candy, dairy and other food products.
         g.    Bottling or distribution plants, milk or soft drinks.
         h.    Ceramic products such as pottery, figurines and small glazed
tiles.
         i.    Contractor or construction office and yards such as building,
cement, electrical, heating, ventilating and air conditioning, masonry,
painting, plumbing, refrigeration and roofing.
         j.    Cosmetics and toiletries, drugs, perfumes and perfumed soaps and
pharmaceutical products.
         k.    Drive in type restaurants and convenience food establishments.
         l.    Electrical supplies, manufacturing and assembly such as wire and
cable assembly, switches, lamps, insulation and dry cell batteries.
         m.    Highway and street maintenance shops and yards.
         n.    Laboratories – research, development and testing.
         o.    Lumberyards.
         p.    Machines, iron, steel or other metal fabrication shops.
         q.    Mattress manufacturing, rebuilding and renovating.
         r.    Metal stamping and extrusion of small products such as costume
jewelry, pins and needles, razor blades, bottle caps, buttons and kitchen
utensil.
         s.    Milk and ice processing.
         t.    Monument works.
         u.    Motor freight terminals.
         v.    Packing and crating establishments.
         w.    Publicity and bookbinding establishments.
         x.    Publicly owned recreational uses.
         y.    Recreational and mobile home sales, service and repair.
         z.    Rental establishments.
         aa.    Shell egg business, candling, packaging and distributing.
         bb.    Smoking and curing of meat products.
         cc.    Soap and detergents, packaging only.
         dd.    Storage and warehousing establishments.
         ee.    Textiles, spinning, weaving, dyeing, printing, knit goods,
yarn, thread and cordage but excluding textile bleaching.
         ff.    Tools and hardware such as bolts, nuts and screws, doorknobs,
drills, hand tools and cutlery, hinges, house hardware, locks, nonferrous metal
castings and plumbing appliances.
         gg.    Toys, novelties and watches.
         hh.    Transportation terminals and stations.
         ii.    Truck stops.
         jj.    Uses not listed but similar to the permitted uses contained
herein and consistent with the stated purpose of this district.
         kk.    Offices related to the above.
      101.    Radio and television broadcasting studios and offices.
      102.    Radio and television office and stations.
      103.    Transportation terminals.
      104.    Real estate sales.
      105.    Record/music stores.
      106.    Restaurants, cafes, on and off sale liquor.
      107.    Restaurants – drive ins; truck stops; provided, that the parking
area containing such use shall be located at least one hundred fifty feet
(150') from any existing residential district.
      108.    Sewing machine sales and service.
      109.    Shoe and footwear stores.
      110.    Shoe repair shops.
      111.    Sporting goods stores.
      112.    Storage and distribution of certain nonoffensive, nontoxic
materials.
      113.    Storage garages and miniwarehouses with no outdoor storage.
      114.    Tailor shops.
      115.    Tattoo parlors.
      116.    Theaters (excluding outdoor drive in type).
      117.    Tobacco shops.
      118.    Toy stores.
      119.    Transportation terminals and stations.
      120.    Travel bureaus or agencies, transportation ticket offices.
      121.    Variety stores, 5 and 10 cent stores, and stores of similar
nature.
      122.    Warehousing of nonexplosive material or equipment.
      123.    Watch and clock repair and sales.
      124.    Wearing apparel stores.
      125.    Wholesale business and office establishments.
      126.   Cannabis cultivation (indoor and outdoor), cannabis and hemp
manufacturing, cannabis wholesale and cannabis and low potency hemp edible
retail.
   C.    Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory uses in an I-
1 district:
      1.    Commercial or business buildings and structures for a use accessory
to the principal use but such use shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
gross floor space of the principal use.
      2.    Off street parking as regulated by section
10-5-1 of this title, but not including semitrailer trucks.
      3.    Off street loading as regulated by section
10-5-1 of this title.
      4.    Outdoor storage, sales, rental and service subject to section
10-5-10 of this title.
   D.    Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in an I-
1 district and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
and regulated by section
10-3-3 of this title:
      1.    Public regulated utility buildings, structures necessary for the
health, safety and general welfare of the community; provided that:
         a.    Compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained
and required setbacks and side yard requirements are met.
         b.    Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with
no outside storage.
         c.    Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      2.    Commercial car washes (drive through, mechanical and self-
service); provided that:
         a.    Stacking space is constructed to accommodate that number of
vehicles which can be washed during a maximum thirty (30) minute period and
shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         b.    At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than five feet (5') shall be screened in compliance with this title.
         c.    Parking or car storage space shall be screened from view of
abutting residential districts in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The entire area other than occupied by the building or plantings
shall be surfaced with material which will control dust and drainage which is
subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         e.    The entire area shall have a drainage system which is subject to
the approval of the city.
         f.    All lighting shall be hooded and so directed so as not to be in
violation of the provisions of section
10-5-8 of this title.
         g.    Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum
of conflict with through traffic movement and shall be subject to the approval
of the city.
         h.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      3.    Drive in type restaurants and convenience food establishments
provided that:
         a.    There is adequate off street parking in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this title.
         b.    There is adequate stacking space for drive in service so as to
prevent stacking on public streets or stacking which would interfere with the
required parking lots.
         c.    Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum
of conflict with through traffic movement and shall be subject to the approval
of the city.
      4.    Kennels and veterinary clinics, animal hospitals, animal shelters
and pet stores with outside pens or exercise yards provided that:
         a.    Any outside area used for pens and exercise yards are to be
located at least three hundred feet (300') from any existing residential use or
district.
         b.    The site and related parking and service entrances are served by
an arterial or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the
traffic which will be generated.
         c.    Adequate off street parking is provided in compliance with
section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    Adequate off street loading is provided in compliance with
section
10-5-1 of this title.
         e.    Vehicular entrances to parking or service areas shall create a
minimum of conflict with through traffic movement.
         f.    All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with the applicable provisions of this title.
         g.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      5.    Agricultural processing to include fertilizer manufacture, grain
elevator and feed mixing and grinding plants; asphalt and concrete batching or
ready mix plants; concrete or cement products manufacturing; battery
manufacture; slaughter of animals (excluding stockyards); tire recapping or
retreading; provided that:
         a.    A minimum lot area of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet and
minimum lot width of one hundred fifty feet (150').
         b.    A drainage system subject to the approval of the city engineer
shall be installed.
         c.    The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way so as to comply
with the provisions of section
10-5-8 of this title.
         d.    At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than five feet (5') shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         e.    Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement, shall comply with section
10-5-1 of this title and shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         f.    No outside storage except as allowed in compliance with section
10-5-8 of this title.
         g.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      6.    Car impound lots (other than publicly owned); provided that:
         a.    The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure or plantings shall be surfaced with a material to control dust and
drainage which is subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         b.    A drainage system subject to the approval of the city engineer
shall be installed.
         c.    The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way so as to comply
with the provisions of section
10-5-8 of this title.
         d.    At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than five feet (5') shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         e.    All fencing is to conform with the applicable provisions of this
code.
         f.    Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement, shall comply with section
10-5-1 of this title and shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         g.    No additional outside storage except as allowed in compliance
with section
10-5-8 of this title shall be allowed.
         h.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      7.    Recreational uses and facilities (excluding those publicly owned);
provided, that:
         a.    The site of the proposed use has direct access to an arterial
street without utilizing public streets of a lower traffic handling
classification to reach the arterial street.
         b.    Vehicular access points shall be limited and designed and
constructed to create a minimum of conflict with through traffic movement.
         c.    Parking area shall be screened from view of residential
districts.
         d.    The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way so as to comply
with the provisions of section
10-5-8 of this title.
         e.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      8.    Salvage yards, wrecking yards, or waste recycling facilities,
public utilities and public service uses to include: car impound lots, power
production, waste and water treatment plants, solid waste transfer station,
coal transfer stations and holding ponds, solid waste incineration or
composting with or without energy recovery; provided that:
         a.    A drainage system subject to the approval of the city engineer
shall be installed.
         b.    The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way so as to comply
with the provisions of section
10-5-8 of this title.
         c.    At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than five feet (5') shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    All fencing shall be in compliance with the applicable
provisions of this code.
         e.    Exterior storage areas shall be screened from view in compliance
with section
10-5-8 of this title.
         f.    Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement, shall comply with section
10-5-1 of this title and shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         g.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      9.    Insecticide and pesticide, packaging only, and metal finishing,
planting, grinding, sharpening, polishing, cleaning, rustproofing and heat
treatment; provided, that:
         a.    A drainage system subject to the approval of the city engineer
shall be installed.
         b.    The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way so as to comply
with the provisions of section
10-5-8 of this title.
         c.    At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than five feet (5') shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    All fencing shall be in compliance with the applicable
provisions of this code.
         e.    Exterior storage areas shall be screened from view in compliance
with section
10-5-8 of this title.
         f.    Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement, shall comply with section
10-5-1 of this title and shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         g.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
   E.    Minimum Lot Requirements And Setbacks: The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in an I-1 district subject to additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this title. All
setbacks are from property lines. The street right of way and boulevard are not
part of the setback area.
      1.    Front yard setback: twenty five feet (25').
      2.    Rear and side yard setback: ten feet (10').
      3.    Maximum lot coverage: ninety percent (90%).
      4.    Minimum lot width: seventy five feet (75').
      5.    Minimum lot size: five thousand (5,000) square feet.
      6.    Corner Lot: Only one front yard is required on the side that faces
the main public street and may have the main building entrance. The remaining
side may use side lot setbacks provided no structure or visual impediment is
constructed within a distance of thirty five feet (35') from the intersection
of the property lines of the two (2) streets.
   F.    Maximum Building Height: The following maximum building heights will
apply in the I-1 district subject to additional requirements, exceptions, and
modifications set forth in this title:
      1.    Principal building: none.
      2.    Accessory buildings: as governed by section
10-5-9 of this title.
   G.    Supplemental Standards: The supplemental standards are listed and
enforced under chapter 5 of this title (i.e., parking lot, loading space,
signs, fences and screening, drainage, traffic visibility, and grading). (Ord.
230, 5-6-2002; amd. Ord. 298, 5-19-2025)
10-4-10: I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL:
   A.    Purpose: It is the purpose of the I-2 heavy industrial district to
provide an area for uses such as manufacturing and agricultural product
processing or any other industry which is desirable to separate from public,
residential, or normal commercial activities due to safety, noise, or any other
reasonable concerns.
   B.    Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in an I-2 district:
      1.    Agricultural implement dealerships.
      2.    Auto and implement dealerships.
      3.    Amusement parks.
      4.    Animal clinics and hospitals with no overnight care, outside pens
or exercise yards.
      5.    Agricultural/farm supply store with no outside feed storage.
      6.    Appliance sales and service stores.
      7.    Auto sales, service and repair and mobile home sales, service and
repair.
      8.    Auto service, accessory and parts stores.
      9.    Automobile and truck body repair shops (excluding salvage yards).
      10.    Bicycle sales and repair stores.
      11.    Building materials sales stores.
      12.    Business and professional offices.
      13.    Cable television distributors.
      14.    Carpenter and cabinet shops.
      15.    Carpet, rugs and tile stores.
      16.    Cartage and express facilities.
      17.    Civic centers, conference centers, city, county, state and federal
offices, police and fire stations.
      18.    Coin and stamp stores.
      19.    Commercial and professional offices.
      20.    Commercial film developing and processing stores.
      21.    Copy service shops.
      22.    Costume and clothing rental stores.
      23.    Dairy products store.
      24.    Dry cleaning and laundries including plant accessory heretofore,
pressing and repair.
      25.    Dry cleaning pick up and laundry pick up stations incidental
repair and assembly but not including processing.
      26.    Electrical, heating, ventilating and air conditioning, masonry,
painting and plumbing, refrigeration and roofing where outside equipment and
storage does not exceed twenty thousand (20,000) square feet, provided that the
outside storage area is effectively screened by a site obscuring fence at least
six feet (6') in height.
      27.    Electrical or gas appliance stores including incidental repair and
assembly hereto.
      28.    Employment agencies.
      29.    Entertainment – amusement parks; drive in theaters with a minimum
of six foot (6') sight obscuring fence; go cart tracks provided that all of the
boundary lines of the lot containing such use are located at least three
hundred feet (300') from any existing residential district; health clubs.
      30.    Essential services.
      31.    Fabric stores.
      32.    Finance companies.
      33.    Florists.
      34.    Furniture and home furnishing stores.
      35.    Furniture refinishing.
      36.    Furriers when conducted only for retail trade on the premises.
      37.    Garage storage.
      38.    General contractors.
      39.    Governmental and public utility buildings and structures.
      40.    Hardware stores.
      41.    Heavy equipment sales, service and repair.
      42.    Indoor commercial recreation.
      43.    Insurance sales, claims and branch offices.
      44.    Interior decorating.
      45.    Liquor stores, including on and off sale establishments.
      46.    Locksmiths.
      47.    Lumberyards provided that the outside storage area is effectively
screened by a sight obscuring fence at least six feet (6') in height.
      48.    Mail order houses.
      49.    Meat market, but not including processing for a locker plant.
      50.    Mortuaries and funeral homes.
      51.    Nurseries.
      52.    Parking lots and ramps.
      53.    Pawnshops.
      54.    Pet shops with no outside pens or exercise yards.
      55.    Plumbing and heating shops.
      56.    Plumbing, television, radio, electrical sales and such repairs as
are accessory use to the retail establishment permitted within this district.
      57.    Printing shops.
      58.    Private clubs or lodges serving food and beverages.
      59.    Production, assembly or processing of certain nonoffensive
materials:
         a.    Electrical appliances such as lighting fixtures, irons, fans and
toasters.
         b.    Electrical equipment assembly, such as home radio and television
receiver and home movie equipment.
         c.    Electronic instruments.
         d.    Jewelry.
         e.    Medical, dental and optical supplies.
         f.    Musical instruments.
         g.    Orthopedic and medical appliances, such as artificial limbs,
braces, supports and stretchers.
         h.    Scientific and precision instruments.
         i.    Metal fabrication.
      60.    The production, assembly or processing of materials, goods or
products limited to:
         a.    Advertising products, such as signs and billboards.
         b.    Armories.
         c.    Assembly from the following previously prepared materials: bone,
canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fur, glass, hair, horn,
leather, paper, plastic, precious or semiprecious stones, rubber, shell, wood
(excluding lumber mills) and yarn.
         d.    Automobile repair – major.
         e.    Awnings, venetian blind and window shades.
         f.    Bakery, candy, dairy and other food products.
         g.    Bottling or distribution plants, milk or soft drinks.
         h.    Ceramic products such as pottery, figurines and small glazed
tiles.
         i.    Contractor or construction office and yards such as building,
cement, electrical, heating, ventilating and air conditioning, masonry,
painting, plumbing, refrigeration and roofing.
         j.    Cosmetics and toiletries, drugs, perfumes and perfumed soaps and
pharmaceutical products.
         k.    Drive in type restaurants and convenience food establishments.
         l.    Electrical supplies, manufacturing and assembly such as wire and
cable assembly, switches, lamps, insulation and dry cell batteries.
         m.    Highway and street maintenance shops and yards.
         n.    Laboratories – research, development and testing.
         o.    Lumberyards.
         p.    Machines, iron, steel or other metal fabrication shops.
         q.    Mattress manufacturing, rebuilding and renovating.
         r.    Metal stamping and extrusion of small products such as costume
jewelry, pins and needles, razor blades, bottle caps, buttons and kitchen
utensil.
         s.    Milk and ice processing.
         t.    Monument works.
         u.    Motor freight terminals.
         v.    Packing and crating establishments.
         w.    Publicity and bookbinding establishments.
         x.    Publicly owned recreational uses.
         y.    Recreational and mobile home sales, service and repair.
         z.    Rental establishments.
         aa.    Shell egg business, candling, packaging and distributing.
         bb.    Smoking and curing of meat products.
         cc.    Soap and detergents, packaging only.
         dd.    Storage and warehousing establishments.
         ee.    Textiles, spinning, weaving, dyeing, printing, knit goods,
yarn, thread and cordage but excluding textile bleaching.
         ff.    Tools and hardware such as bolts, nuts and screws, doorknobs,
drills, hand tools and cutlery, hinges, house hardware, locks, nonferrous metal
castings and plumbing appliances.
         gg.    Toys, novelties and watches.
         hh.    Transportation terminals and stations.
         ii.    Truck stops.
         jj.    Uses not listed but similar to the permitted uses contained
herein and consistent with the stated purpose of this district.
         kk.    Offices related to the above.
      61.    Radio and television broadcasting studios and offices.
      62.    Transportation terminals and stations.
      63.    Real estate sales.
      64.    Shoe repair shops.
      65.    Storage and distribution of certain nonoffensive, nontoxic
materials.
      66.    Storage garages and miniwarehouses with no outdoor storage.
      67.    Tattoo parlors.
      68.    Theaters (excluding outdoor drive in type).
      69.    Transportation terminals and stations.
      70.    Travel bureaus or agencies, transportation ticket offices.
      71.    Warehousing of nonexplosive material or equipment.
      72.    Other uses not listed but similar to the permitted uses herein and
consistent with the stated purpose of this district.
   C.    Accessory Uses: The following are permitted accessory uses in an I-
2 district:
      1.    Commercial or business buildings and structures for a use accessory
to the principal use but such use shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the
gross floor space of the principal use.
      2.    Off street parking as regulated by section
10-5-1 of this title, but not including semitrailer trucks.
      3.    Off street loading as regulated by section
10-5-1 of this title.
      4.    Outdoor storage, sales, rental and service subject to section
10-5-8 of this title.
   D.    Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in an I-
2 district and require a conditional use permit based upon procedures set forth
and regulated by section
10-3-3 of this title:
      1.    Public regulated utility buildings, structures necessary for the
health, safety and general welfare of the community; provided that:
         a.    Compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained
and required setbacks and side yard requirements are met.
         b.    Equipment is completely enclosed in a permanent structure with
no outside storage.
         c.    Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      2.    Commercial car washes (drive through, mechanical and self-
service); provided that:
         a.    Stacking space is constructed to accommodate that number of
vehicles which can be washed during a maximum thirty (30) minute period and
shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         b.    At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than five feet (5') shall be screened in compliance with this title.
         c.    Parking or car storage space shall be screened from view of
abutting residential districts in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The entire area other than occupied by the building or plantings
shall be surfaced with material which will control dust and drainage which is
subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         e.    The entire area shall have a drainage system which is subject to
the approval of the city.
         f.    All lighting shall be hooded and so directed so as not to be in
violation of the provisions of section
10-5-8 of this title.
         g.    Vehicular access points shall be limited, shall create a minimum
of conflict with through traffic movement and shall be subject to the approval
of the city engineer.
         h.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      3.    Kennels and veterinary clinics, animal hospitals, animal shelters
and pet stores with outside pens or exercise yards provided that:
         a.    Any outside area used for pens and exercise yards are to be
located at least three hundred feet (300') from any existing residential use or
district.
         b.    The site and related parking and service entrances are served by
an arterial or collector street of sufficient capacity to accommodate the
traffic which will be generated.
         c.    Adequate off street parking is provided in compliance with
section
10-5-1 of this title.
         d.    Adequate off street loading is provided in compliance with
section
10-5-1 of this title.
         e.    Vehicular entrances to parking or service areas shall create a
minimum of conflict with through traffic movement.
         f.    All signing and informational or visual communication devices
shall be in compliance with the applicable provisions of this title.
         g.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      4.    Agricultural processing to include fertilizer manufacture, grain
elevator; asphalt and concrete batching or ready mix plants; concrete or cement
products manufacturing; battery manufacture; slaughter of animals (excluding
stockyards); tire recapping or retreading; provided that:
         a.    A minimum lot area of twenty thousand (20,000) square feet and
minimum lot width of one hundred fifty feet (150').
         b.    A drainage system subject to the approval of the city engineer
shall be installed.
         c.    The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way so as to comply
with the provisions of section
10-5-8 of this title.
         d.    At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than five feet (5') shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         e.    Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement, shall comply with section
10-5-1 of this title and shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         f.    No outside storage except as allowed in compliance with section
10-5-9 of this title.
         g.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      5.    Car impound lots (other than publicly owned); provided that:
         a.    The entire site other than that taken up by a building,
structure or plantings shall be surfaced with a material to control dust and
drainage which is subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         b.    A drainage system subject to the approval of the city engineer
shall be installed.
         c.    The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way so as to comply
with the provisions of section
10-5-8 of this title.
         d.    At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than five feet (5') shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with section
10-5-8 of this title.
         e.    All fencing is to conform with the applicable provisions of this
code.
         f.    Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement, shall comply with section
10-5-1 of this title and shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         g.    No additional outside storage except as allowed in compliance
with section
10-5-8 of this title shall be allowed.
         h.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      6.    Recreational uses and facilities (excluding those publicly owned);
provided, that:
         a.    The site of the proposed use has direct access to an arterial
street without utilizing public streets of a lower traffic handling
classification to reach the arterial street.
         b.    Vehicular access points shall be limited and designed and
constructed to create a minimum of conflict with through traffic movement.
         c.    Parking area shall be screened from view of residential
districts.
         d.    The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way so as to comply
with the provisions of section
10-5-8 of this title.
         e.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      7.    Salvage yards, wrecking yards, or waste recycling facilities,
public utilities and public service uses to include: car impound lots, power
production, waste and water treatment plants, solid waste transfer station,
coal transfer stations and holding ponds; provided that:
         a.    A drainage system subject to the approval of the city engineer
shall be installed.
         b.    The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way so as to comply
with the provisions of section
10-5-8 of this title.
         c.    At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than five feet (5') shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with section
10-5-8 of this title.
         d.    All fencing shall be in compliance with the applicable
provisions of this code.
         e.    Exterior storage areas shall be screened from view in compliance
with section
10-5-8 of this title.
         f.    Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement, shall comply with section
10-5-1 of this title and shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         g.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      8.    Insecticide and pesticide, packaging only, and metal finishing,
planting, grinding, sharpening, polishing, cleaning, rustproofing and heat
treatment; provided, that:
         a.    A drainage system subject to the approval of the city engineer
shall be installed.
         b.    The lighting shall be accomplished in such a way so as to comply
with the provisions of section
10-5-8 of this title.
         c.    At the boundaries of a residential district, a strip of not less
than five feet (5') shall be landscaped and screened in compliance with section
10-5-8 of this title.
         d.    All fencing shall be in compliance with the applicable
provisions of this code.
         e.    Exterior storage areas shall be screened from view in compliance
with section
10-5-8 of this title.
         f.    Vehicular access points shall create a minimum of conflict with
through traffic movement, shall comply with section
10-5-1 of this title and shall be subject to the approval of the city engineer.
         g.    The provisions of section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
   E.    Prohibited Uses: The following are prohibited uses in an I-2 district:
      1.    Acetylene gas manufacturing.
      2.    Ammonia or chlorine manufacturing.
      3.    Anhydrous ammonia bulk storage plants.
      4.    Any other trade, industry or use that will be injurious, hazardous
or offensive to an extent equal to or greater than those listed above.
   F.    Lot Requirements And Setbacks: The following minimum requirements
shall be observed in an I-2 district subject to additional requirements,
exceptions and modifications set forth in this title. All setbacks are from
property lines. The street right of way and boulevard are not part of the
setback area.
      1.    Lot area: seven thousand five hundred feet (7,500').
      2.    Front yard setback: twenty five feet (25').
      3.    Rear and side yard setback: ten feet (10').
      4.    Maximum Lot: Maximum lot coverage: ninety percent (90%).
      5.    Corner Lot: Only one front yard is required on the side that faces
the main public street and may have the main building entrance. The remaining
side may use side lot setbacks provided no structure or visual impediment is
constructed within a distance of thirty five feet (35') from the intersection
of the property lines of the two (2) streets.
   G.    Maximum Building Height: The following maximum building heights will
apply in the I-2 district subject to additional requirements, exceptions, and
modifications set forth in this title:
      1.    Principal building: none.
      2.    Accessory buildings: as governed by section
10-5-9 of this title.
   H.    Supplemental Standards: The supplemental standards are listed and
enforced under chapter 5 of this title (i.e., parking lot, loading space,
signs, fences and screening, drainage, traffic visibility, and grading). (Ord.
230, 5-6-2002)
10-4-11: TZ TRANSITION ZONE:
   A.    Purpose: The transition zone district is established primarily for
those annexed unplatted areas within the city that have not been zoned for
development and are undergoing a transition from, in most cases, agricultural
to urban uses. The urban transition is contingent upon development plans,
proper timing, availability of public utilities and services and compatibility
with the comprehensive land use plan. As these criteria take place, a more
conventional urban zoning district will replace the transition zone district.
   B.    Permitted Uses: The following are permitted uses in the TZ district:
      1.    Farming and agricultural related uses subject to MPCA standards,
but not including livestock operations.
      2.    Residential dwellings provided they are in compliance with all
provisions of R-2 district.
      3.    Crop and tree farming.
      4.    Essential services.
      5.    Home occupations.
      6.    Parks and playgrounds.
      7.    Hobby farms.
      8.    Nurseries, greenhouses, tree farms and landscape material
operations including retail and wholesale operations.
      9.    Daycare facilities serving twelve (12) or fewer persons and
residential care facilities serving six (6) or fewer persons.
   C.    Conditional Uses: The following are conditional uses in a TZ district:
      1.    Governmental and public regulated utility buildings and structures
necessary for the health, safety and general welfare of the city, provided
that:
         a.    Compatibility with the surrounding neighborhood is maintained
and required setbacks and side yard requirements are met.
         b.    Adequate screening from neighboring uses and landscaping is
provided in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         c.    The provisions of section
10-5-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      2.    Commercial recreational area including golf courses and country
clubs, swimming pools, ice arenas and similar facilities, provided that:
         a.    The principal use, function or activity is recreational in
character.
         b.    Not more than forty percent (40%) of the land area of the site
be covered by buildings or structures.
         c.    When abutting a residential use and a residential use district,
the property is screened and landscaped in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         d.    The land area of the property containing such use or activity
meets the minimum established for the district.
         e.    The provisions of chapters 3 and 5 of this title are considered
and satisfactorily met.
      3.    Commercial riding stables, dog kennels, animal hospitals with
overnight care and similar uses provided that:
         a.    Any building in which animals are kept, whether roofed shelter
or enclosed structure, shall be located a distance of three hundred feet (300')
or more from any lot line.
         b.    The animals shall, at a minimum, be kept in an enclosed pen or
corral of sufficient height and strength to retain such animals. Said pen or
corral may not be located closer than three hundred feet (300') from a lot
line.
         c.    The provisions of Minnesota pollution control agency regulations
SW 53.(2) as may be amended are complied with.
         d.    All other applicable state and local regulations pertaining to
nuisance, health and safety conditions, etc., are complied with.
         e.    The provisions of chapters 3 and 5 of this title are considered
and satisfactorily met.
      4.    Cemeteries, provided that:
         a.    The site accesses on a minor arterial.
         b.    The site is landscaped in accordance with section
10-5-8 of this title.
         c.    The provisions of chapters 3 and 5 of this title are considered
and satisfactorily met.
      5.    Farm buildings a minimum distance of three hundred feet (300') from
an existing residence or residential platted lot, provided that the provisions
of chapters 3 and 5 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      6.    Nonfarm related open and outdoor storage as a principal or
accessory use provided that:
         a.    The area as appropriate is fenced and screened from view of
neighboring residential uses or when abutting a residential district in
compliance with section
10-5-5 of this title.
         b.    Storage as appropriate is screened from view from the public
right of way in compliance with sections
10-5-5 and
10-5-8 of this title.
         c.    Storage area is grassed or surfaced to control dust.
         d.    All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light
source shall not be visible from the public right of way or neighboring
residences and shall be in compliance with section
10-5-8 of this title.
         e.    Does not take up parking space as required for conformity to
this title.
         f.    The provisions of chapters 3 and 5 of this title are considered
and satisfactorily met.
      7.    Nonfarm related open or outdoor service, sale and rental as a
principal or accessory use provided that:
         a.    Outside sales areas as appropriate are fenced and screened from
view of neighboring residential uses or an abutting residential district and
the public right of way in compliance with this title.
         b.    All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light
source shall not be visible from the public right of way or from neighboring
residences and shall be in compliance with section
10-5-8 of this title.
         c.    Sales area is grassed or surfaced to control dust.
         d.    The use does not take up parking spaces as required for
conformity to this title.
         e.    The provisions of chapters 3 and 5 of this title are considered
and satisfactorily met.
   D.    Minimum Lot Requirements And Setbacks: The following minimum
requirements shall be observed in a TZ district subject to the additional
requirements, exceptions and modifications set forth in this title:
      1.    Lot area: (2 acres) eighty seven thousand one hundred twenty
(87,120) square feet.
      2.    Lot width: one hundred fifty feet (150') minimum.
      3.    Lot depth: three hundred feet (300') minimum.
      4.    All setbacks are from property lines. The street right of way and
boulevard are not part of the setback area:
         a.    Front Yard: Not less than thirty feet (30').
         b.    Side Yard:
            (1)    Principal Building: Ten feet (10').
            (2)    Accessory Structures: Ten feet (10') minimum unless a garage
entrance faces into a street in which case the setback will be eighteen feet
(18') to accommodate a vehicle from encroaching onto the public right of way.
         c.    Rear Yard:
            (1)    Principal Building: Ten feet (10').
            (2)    Accessory Structures: Ten feet (10') minimum unless a garage
entrance faces onto a street in which case the setback will be eighteen feet
(18') to accommodate a vehicle from encroaching onto the public highway.
         d.    Corner Lot: Only one front yard is required on the side that
faces the main public street and may have the main building entrance. The
remaining side may use side lot setbacks provided no structure or visual
impediment is constructed within a distance of thirty five feet (35') from the
intersection of the property lines of the two (2) streets.
   E.    Maximum Building Height:
      1.    Dwelling units or principal buildings: thirty five feet (35').
      2.    Accessory buildings: as governed by section
10-5-9 of this title.
      3.    Farm buildings: none.
   F.    Maximum Lot Coverage: No structure or combination of structures shall
occupy more than ten percent (10%) of the lot area.
   G.    Supplemental Standards: The supplemental standards are listed and
enforced under chapter 5 of this title (i.e., parking lot, loading space,
signs, fences and screening, drainage, traffic visibility, and grading). (Ord.
230, 5-6-2002)
CHAPTER 5
SUPPLEMENTARY REGULATIONS
SECTION:
10-5-1: Off Street Parking Requirements
10-5-2: Wind Energy Conversion Systems (WECS)
10-5-3: Moving Buildings
10-5-4: Signs
10-5-5: Fences And Screening
10-5-6: Daycare Facilities
10-5-7: Regulation Of Antennas And Wireless Communications
10-5-8: General Yard, Lot Area And Building Requirements
10-5-9: Accessory Structures, Uses And Equipment
10-5-10: Home Occupations
10-5-1: OFF STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Purpose: The regulation of off street parking spaces in these zoning
regulations is to alleviate or prevent congestion of the public right of way
and to promote the safety and general welfare of the public, by establishing
minimum requirements for off street parking of motor vehicles in accordance
with the utilization of various parcels of land. The regulations and
requirements set forth herein shall apply to all off street parking facilities
in all of the zoning districts of the city.
   B.    Site Plan Drawing Necessary: All applications for a zoning permit in
all zoning districts shall be accompanied by a site plan drawing with
dimensions indicating the location of all off street parking and loading
spaces.
   C.    General Provisions:
      1.    Reduction Of Existing Off Street Parking Space: Off street parking
spaces existing upon the effective date hereof shall not be reduced in number
or size unless said number or size exceeds the requirements set forth herein
for a similar new use.
      2.    Change Of Use Or Occupancy Of Buildings: Any change of use or
occupancy of any building or buildings including additions thereto requiring
more parking area shall not be permitted until there is furnished such
additional parking spaces as required by these zoning regulations.
      3.    Stall, Aisle And Driveway Design:
         a.    Parking Space Size: Each parking space shall not be less than
nine feet (9') wide and eighteen feet (18') in length, and each space shall be
served by adequate access aisles. Accessible stalls shall meet the requirements
of the state building code. Angle parking may be allowed by conditional use
permit.
         b.    Within Structures: The off street parking requirements may be
satisfied by providing space in a garage or carport.
         c.    Grade: The grade of any parking area shall not exceed five
percent (5%).
         d.    Surfacing: Except in the TZ district, driveways and parking
stalls shall be surfaced with asphalt or concrete. In industrial zones,
driveways and parking stalls may be surfaced with gravel, or other materials
equivalent in controlling dust and drainage, as approved by the city engineer.
Plans for surfacing and drainage of driveways and stalls for five (5) or more
vehicles shall be submitted to the city for review and the final drainage plan
will be subject to written approval.
         e.    Striping: Except for single-family, two-family, and town house
dwellings, all parking stalls shall be marked with white or yellow painted
lines not less than four inches (4") wide or blue lines as required for
disabled parking.
         f.    Lighting: Any lighting used to illuminate an off street parking
area shall be hooded and so arranged as to reflect the light away from
adjoining property, abutting residential uses and public rights of way.
         g.    Required Screening: All open off street parking areas of fifteen
(15) or more spaces shall be screened and landscaped from abutting residential
districts.
         h.    Driveway Turnarounds: In the case of single-family, two-family
and town house dwellings, the installation of a vehicle turnaround space,
immediately adjacent to the access driveway is permitted. Said space is to be
no larger than ten feet (10') wide and fifteen feet (15') in length. Where
possible, said space shall be located away from the principal structure and
shall be no closer than twenty feet (20') from the street surface. Said space
is not to be utilized for parking purposes.
   D.    Maintenance: It shall be the responsibility of the owner of the
principal use, uses or buildings to maintain the parking space, accessways,
striping and required screening.
   E.    Placement: All off street parking spaces will be regulated as follows:
      1.    Location: Off street parking spaces must be on the same lot under
the same ownership as the principal use being served. As a conditional use, off
street parking spaces can be on a separate lot not more than two hundred feet
(200') from the principal building.
      2.    Head In Parking Prohibited: Except for single-family, two- family
and town house dwellings, head in parking, directly off of and adjacent to a
public street, with each stall having its own direct access to the public
street shall be prohibited.
      3.    No Parking Area: The boulevard portion of the street right of way
may not be used for parking unless approved by the city council.
      4.    Setback Area: Required off street parking shall not be provided in
required front yards or in required side yards, in residentially zoned
districts.
      5.    Location Of Spaces For One- And Two-Family Dwellings: Required off
street parking spaces for one- and two-family dwellings must be in the rear
yard, side yards, garage, or carport. Parking spaces, including their access
drives, provided in addition to required spaces must be paved with asphalt or
concrete when such spaces are located in a front or side yard. Spaces in a rear
yard may be surfaced with gravel.
      6.    Recreational Vehicles, Equipment, Trailers: Recreational equipment,
recreational vehicles, utility trailers or equipment, and off road vehicles
kept in a side yard or rear yard must be parked on a gravel, paved or concrete
surface. Recreational equipment, recreational vehicles, utility trailers or
equipment, and off road vehicles are limited to two (2) units and none are
allowed to be on the front yard.
      7.    Enforcement: Violations may be enforced through tagging.
   F.    Use Of Required Area: Required off street parking spaces in any
district shall not be utilized for open storage, sale or rental of goods,
repair work, storage of inoperable vehicles and/or storage of snow.
   G.    Accessible Parking Spaces: Accessible parking spaces shall be provided
in accordance with the state building code.
   H.    Number Of Parking Spaces Required: The following minimum number of off
street parking spaces shall be provided and maintained by ownership, easement
and/or lease for the life of the respective uses herein set forth. Uses not
specifically mentioned herein or unique cases shall be determined on an
individual basis by the board of adjustment. Factors to be considered in such
determination shall include (without limitation) size of buildings, type of
use, number of employees, expected volume and turnover of customer traffic and
expected frequency and number of delivery or service vehicles.
Off street parking is not required for businesses in the C-1 central business
district. New or enlarged structures must be provided with off street parking
as required by this title.
      1.    Drive Ins: Drive aisle stacking space of fifty feet (50') for each
drive in unit, plus one space for each table/booth.
      2.    Dwellings, Single-Family And Multi-Family Apartment: Two (2) spaces
per unit. These requirements shall be over and above the required accessible
spaces required by state or federal law.
      3.    Elderly (Senior Citizen): One parking space per unit.
      4.    General Retail: Five (5) spaces per one thousand (1,000) square
feet of floor plus one space for each employee.
      5.    Hotels, Motels, Tourist Homes And Cabins: One space for each room
or suite.
      6.    Industrial And Manufacturing: One space per each employee on the
shift of the greatest employment, plus one truck space for each twenty thousand
five hundred (20,500) square feet of gross floor area. (See also loading space
regulations.)
      7.    Nursing Homes, Convalescent Homes: One space for each two (2)
residents or patients plus one space for each two (2) employees plus one
reserved space for emergency vehicles.
      8.    Office Buildings, Public Buildings, Professional Offices, Medical
And Dental Clinics: Two (2) spaces for each one thousand (1,000) square feet of
floor area plus one space for each employee.
      9.    Restaurants, Cafes, Private Clubs Serving Food And/Or Drinks, Bars,
On Sale Nightclubs: One space for each table/booth in dining area, one space
for every four (4) seats in bar area.
      10.    School, Public Or Private, Elementary And Junior High: At least
one parking space for each classroom plus one additional space for each thirty
(30) student capacity.
   I.    Joint Facilities: The council may approve a conditional use permit for
one or more businesses to provide the required off street parking facilities by
joint use of one or more sites where the total number of spaces provided is
less than the sum of the total required for each business should they provide
them separately.
      1.    The building or use for which application is being made to utilize
the off street parking facilities provided by another building or use shall be
located within three hundred feet (300') of such parking facilities.
      2.    Documentation as specified by the city shall be submitted
demonstrating that there is not substantial conflict in the principal operating
hours of the two (2) buildings or uses (for which joint use of off street
parking facilities is proposed).
      3.    A properly drawn legal instrument, executed by the parties
concerned for joint use of off street parking facilities, duly approved as to
form and manner of execution by the city attorney, shall be filed with the city
and recorded with the Clay County recorder.
   J.    Off Site Parking: Any off site, off street parking which is used to
meet the requirements of this title shall be a conditional use.
   K.    Design Standards:
      1.    All off street automobile parking facilities shall be designated
with appropriate means of vehicular access to a street or alley as well as
maneuvering areas. Detailed plans shall be submitted to the proper official for
approval for all curb cuts or driveway openings before a permit may be obtained
therefor.
      2.    Parking areas shall be paved with an asphalt or concrete surfacing,
afford adequate drainage and shall have bumper guards where needed.
      3.    Off street parking areas for one- or two-family uses shall be in
the rear, side yards, garage, carport, upon a well defined driveway or in an
area not to exceed twelve feet (12') in width.
      4.    Off street parking areas for multiple-family units of three (3) or
more shall park on a designated parking lot. In no case, unless approved by the
zoning official in the issuance of a zoning permit or by the city council in
cases of conditional uses, shall parking be permitted on the front yard.
      5.    Parking areas shall be used for automobile parking only with no
sales, dead storage, repair work, dismantling or servicing of any kind
permitted.
      6.    If lighting is provided, it shall be arranged to reflect away from
the residential area, and also away from any public street or highway.
      7.    Violations shall be enforced through tagging.
      8.    The driveway in front of an enclosed parking space cannot be
considered a separate parking space.
   L.    Loading Space: On the same premises with every building devoted to
retail trade, retail and wholesale food markets, warehouses, supply houses,
wholesale or manufacturing trade, hotels, hospital, laundry dry cleaning
establishments or other buildings where large amounts of goods are received or
shipped, erected in any district after the date of the adoption of this title,
the owner or occupant shall provide loading and unloading space as follows:
      1.    Buildings of seven thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet of
floor area, one loading space.
      2.    Each loading space shall be not less than twelve feet (12') in
width, thirty five feet (35') in length, and fifteen feet (15') in height.
      3.    Loading space may not infringe on right of way or boulevard.
   M.    Parking Lots Of Commercial Or Industrial Uses Located In Residential
Districts: When, in its opinion, the best interests of the community will be
served thereby, the city council may permit, temporarily or permanently, the
use of land in a residential district for a parking lot where the land abuts or
is across the street from a district other than a residential district,
provided that:
      1.    The lot is to be used only for the parking of passenger automobiles
of employees, customers, or guests of the person or firm controlling and
operating the lot, said person to be responsible for its maintenance.
      2.    The parking lot and that portion of the driveway back of the
building line is to be adequately screened from the street and from adjoining
property in a residential district by a sight obscuring fence or wall not less
than four feet (4') high and located back of the building setback line; all
lighting is to be arranged so that there will be no glare therefore annoying to
the occupants of adjoining property in a residential district, and the surface
of the parking lot is to be smoothly graded, hard surfaced, and adequately
drained.
      3.    No charge is to be made for parking on the lot.
      4.    The lot is not to be used for sales, repair work, or servicing of
any kind.
      5.    Entrance to and exit from the lot are to be located so as to do the
least harm to the residential district.
      6.    No advertising sign or material is to be located on the lot.
      7.    All parking is to be kept back of the setback building line by
barriers unless otherwise specifically authorized by the city council.
      8.    Such other conditions as may be deemed necessary by the city
council to protect the character of the residential district.
   N.    Uses Not Specified: For any and all uses or structures not
specifically provided for, the board of adjustment shall determine the
necessary parking spaces after considering all the parking demands generated by
the use.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/5d8b6c812b54ecf4bde8462623e61d88d4e5afe7/
IMAGES/0-0-0-874.gif]
(Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-5-2: WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS (WECS):
   A.    Purpose: The purpose of this section is to establish standards and
procedures by which the installation and operation of wind energy conversion
systems (WECS) shall be governed within the city.
   B.    Application: Wind conversion systems may be allowed as a conditional
use within any nonresidential zoning district of the city, subject to the
regulations and requirements of this section.
   C.    Declaration Of Conditions: The council may impose such conditions on
the granting of a WECS conditional use permit as may be necessary to carry out
the purpose and provisions of this section.
   D.    Site Plan Drawing: All applications for WECS conditional use permits
shall be accompanied by a detailed site plan drawn to scale and dimension,
displaying the following information:
      1.    Lot lines and dimensions.
      2.    Location and height of all buildings, structures, aboveground
utilities and trees on the lot, including both existing and proposed structures
and guy wire anchors.
      3.    Locations and height of all adjacent buildings, structures,
aboveground utilities and trees located within three hundred fifty feet (350')
of the exterior boundaries of the property in question.
      4.    Existing and proposed setbacks of all structures located on the
property in question.
      5.    Sketch elevation of the premises accurately depicting the proposed
WECS and its relationship to structures on adjacent lots.
   E.    Compliance With State Building Code: Standard drawings of the
structural components of the WECS and support structures, including base and
footings shall be provided along the engineering data and calculations to
demonstrate compliance with the structural design provisions of the state
building code, especially with regards to wind and icing loads. Drawings and
engineering calculations shall be certified by a registered engineer.
   F.    Compliance With National Electrical Code: WECS electrical equipment
and connections shall be designed and installed in adherence to the national
electrical code as adopted by the city.
   G.    Manufacturer Warranty: The applicant shall provide documentation or
other evidence from the dealer or manufacturer that the WECS has been
successfully operated in atmospheric conditions similar to the conditions
within the city. The WECS shall be warranted against any system failures
reasonably expected in severe weather operation conditions.
   H.    Design Standards:
      1.    Height: In determining the height of the WECS, the total height of
the system shall be included. System height shall be measured from the base of
the tower to the highest possible extension of the rotor. The permitted maximum
height of a WECS shall be determined according to the following ways:
         a.    A ratio of one foot to one foot (1':1') between the distance of
the closest property line to the base of WECS to the height of the system.
         b.    A maximum system height of fifty feet (50').
The shortest height of the two (2) above mentioned methods shall be used in
determining the maximum allowable height of a WECS system. The height of a WECS
must also comply with FAA regulation part 77 "objects affecting navigable air
space" and/or MnDOT rule 14, MCAR 1.3015 "criteria for determining obstruction
to air navigation".
      2.    Setbacks: No part of a WECS (including guy wire anchors) shall be
located within or above any required front, side or rear yard setback and in no
event shall any part of the system be within ten feet (10') of any property
line. WECS towers shall be set back from the closest property line one foot
(1') for every one foot (1') of system height. WECS shall not be located within
thirty feet (30') of an aboveground utility line.
      3.    Rotor Size: All WECS rotors shall not exceed twenty six feet (26')
in diameter.
      4.    Rotor Clearance: Blade arcs created by the WECS shall have a
minimum of thirty feet (30') of clearance over any structure or tree within a
two hundred foot (200') radius.
      5.    Rotor Design: The blade design and materials are to be designed and
constructed to ensure safe operation in an urban area.
      6.    Rotor Safety: Each WECS shall be equipped with both a manual and
automatic braking device capable of stopping WECS operation in high wind (40
miles per hour or greater) or in conditions of imbalance.
      7.    Lightning Protection: Each WECS shall be grounded to protect
against natural lightning strikes in conformance with the national electrical
code.
      8.    Component Compatibility: The wind turbine and wind turbine tower
are to be designed and constructed to be compatible.
      9.    Tower Access: To prevent unauthorized climbing, WECS towers must
comply with one of the following provisions:
         a.    Tower climbing apparatus shall not be located within twelve feet
(12') of the ground.
         b.    A locked anticlimb device shall be installed on the tower.
         c.    Tower capable of being climbed shall be enclosed by a locked,
protective fence at least six feet (6') high.
      10.    Signs: WECS shall have one sign, not to exceed two (2) square feet
at the base of the tower and said sign shall contain the following information:
         a.    Warning high voltage.
         b.    Manufacturer's name.
         c.    Emergency phone number.
         d.    Emergency shutdown procedures.
      11.    Lighting: WECS shall not have affixed or attached any lights,
reflectors, flashers or any other illumination, except for illumination devices
required by FAA regulations part 77 "objects affecting navigable air space" and
FAA advisory circular 70/7460-1F, September 1978 "obstruction marking and
lighting".
      12.    Electromagnetic Interference: WECS shall be designed and
constructed so as not to cause radio and television interference.
      13.    Noise Emissions: Noises emanating from the operation of WECS shall
be in compliance with and regulated by the state pollution control standards,
Minnesota regulations NPC 1 and 2, as amended.
      14.    Utility Company Interconnection: No WECS shall be interconnected
with the local electrical utility company until the utility company reviewed
and commented upon it. The interconnection of the WECS with the utility company
shall adhere to the national electrical code.
   I.    Ornamental Wind Devices: Ornamental wind devices that are not a WECS
shall be exempt from the provisions of this section and shall conform to other
applicable provisions of this title and this code.
   J.    Zoning Permit Required: A zoning permit shall be required for the
installation of a WECS in the city.
   K.    Inspection: The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any WECS
conditional use permit to inspect the premises on which the WECS is located. If
a WECS is not maintained in operational condition and poses a potential safety
hazard, the owner shall take expeditious action to correct the situation.
   L.    Abandonment: Any WECS or tower which is not used for six (6)
successive months shall be deemed abandoned and shall be dismantled and removed
from the property at the expense of the property owner. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-5-3: MOVING BUILDINGS:
   A.    State License Requirement: No person, except a state licensed house
mover, shall move, raise or support free of its foundation any building or
structure within the limits of the city, and every person, before engaging in
the occupation of moving, raising or supporting of any building or structure,
shall have and obtain such license. The above shall not be construed as
preventing the owners of a building or structure from personally raising,
moving or supporting such building or structure upon their own premises.
   B.    Permit Requirements:
      1.    Permit Required: Every licensed house mover shall, before raising,
moving or supporting free of its foundation any building or structure, obtain a
permit therefor from the city.
      2.    Application: A person seeking a permit shall contact the zoning
official of the city to receive an application form and must file the completed
application form with the zoning official. The applicant shall present plans to
the zoning official for a plan review.
      3.    Hearing; Notice: Upon receipt of completed application, the zoning
administrator shall schedule a hearing before the planning commission to
consider the permit application, and mail notices to neighboring landowners
within three hundred feet (300') of the boundary of the property to which the
structure is proposed to be moved. Such written notice shall be mailed at least
ten (10) days prior to the hearing and a copy of the hearing notice and list of
the property owners and addresses to which the notice was sent shall be
attested and made a part of the record of the proceeding. Failure of a property
owner to receive said notice shall not invalidate any such proceedings as set
forth within this section, provided a bona fide attempt has been made to comply
with the notice requirements in this section.
      4.    Notice And Application Copies: Notice of the hearing and a copy of
the application shall be provided to the Hawley public works department, and
Hawley police department.
      5.    Planning Commission Consideration: The planning commission, in
determining whether or not to recommend approval of the moving permit to the
city council, shall consider the same factors that apply to the conditional use
permits under the zoning ordinances of the city. In addition, they shall
consider the following factors:
         a.    Whether such structure is so structurally unsafe that it could
not be moved without endangering persons and property in the city.
         b.    Whether the structure is structurally sound and capable of
meeting building requirements subsequent to the move.
         c.    Building official may require some code compliance work to be
completed before the structure is considered to be moved.
      6.    Recommendation; Conditions: The planning commission, in
recommending approval of a permit, may condition the permit upon the applicant
meeting certain conditions, including, but not limited to:
         a.    The route to be followed in moving the structure.
         b.    The date and time limits in which the building may be moved.
         c.    The amount of time in which Hawley public utilities operating or
controlling wires or cable that must be moved or displaced to accommodate the
move has to remove or displace wires or cables after receipt of notice of the
time of the move.
         d.    The amount of a cash deposit or performance or completion bond
required by the city council.
         e.    The amount of a cash deposit, or letter of credit for estimated
costs that is required by the city council.
         f.    The alterations or repairs that must be made to the structure so
as to comply with building code requirements and to upgrade the building so as
to maintain the neighborhood integrity and appearance.
      7.    Place On Council Agenda: After recommendation by the planning
commission, the matter shall be placed on the agenda of the next city council
meeting. A favorable vote of a majority of the council members present shall be
required to approve the permit. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
      8.    Fee: Any application for a permit shall be accompanied by a permit
fee, which shall be in an amount shown in section
3-8-1 of this code. Such fee shall not be refundable if the permit is denied.
(Ord. 230, 5-6-2002; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
      9.    Deposit Or Bond: If a permit is approved, a cash deposit or
performance or completion bond in an amount set in the permit shall be filed
with the city clerk/treasurer prior to the issuance of the permit, and be
signed by a good and sufficient surety, setting forth the completion date
therein. Such bond is for the purpose of ensuring that alterations and repairs
to the structure to bring it up to standards as required in the permit are
accomplished. The date of completion shall be set by the city council and the
zoning official.
      10.    Procedures For Outside City Limits: In cases where a building is
ultimately being moved outside the city limits of Hawley, or in the case of the
moving of an accessory building or single-story garage, the application and
application fee shall be filed with the zoning official of the city, but no
hearing or approval of the planning commission or city council is required.
Instead the zoning official may approve the permit and attach any conditions
permitted in subsection B6 of this section after providing notice and having
consultation with the public works department, and the police department.
      11.    Appeal Of Decision: Any applicant whose moving permit is denied by
the zoning official under this section may appeal such decision to the city
council within fourteen (14) days of the denial of the permit.
   C.    Removal Of Wires, Cables, And Pipes:
      1.    The person to whom a permit has been issued shall, before raising
or moving any building or structure to which electrical wires, cables or piping
for any purpose are attached, notify the persons, associations or corporations
owning or controlling such electric wiring, cables or piping of the proposed
moving of said building or structure. The person, association or corporation so
notified, shall, within the time established on the permit, or if no time is
established in the permit, within a reasonable time thereafter, disconnect and
make safe the electric wires, cables or piping.
      2.    In every case in which a permit shall be issued as herein provided
for the removal of any house or structure, when such removal requires the
displacement of any overhead electrical or other wire or cable, it shall be the
duty of the person, association or corporation owning, operating or controlling
such wire or cable, to remove or displace the same as far as may be necessary,
at the cost and expense of the person to whom a permit has been issued, to
permit the removal of such house, building or structure.
      3.    The person to whom a permit has been issued shall notify the police
department and the public works department, and the person, association or
corporation owning, operating or controlling such wire or cable, to remove or
displace the same to facilitate the removal of said house, building or
structure of the exact time in which the move will take place. Such time shall
conform with the conditions of the permit on time of move, if any, and the
period of time in which Hawley public utilities or other association or
corporation has to move or displace overhead wires or cables shall be as set
out in the permit, and if no time is set out in the permit, within a reasonable
time thereafter to remove or displace such wires or cables sufficiently to
allow the passage of said house, building or structure.
   D.    Conditions Of Permit:
      1.    Moving Buildings Across Railway Tracks: No house, building or
structure shall be moved across any railway track except at such time as
permitted by the persons, associations or corporations owning or controlling
such tracks.
      2.    Buildings In Streets, Lights Required: When any building or
structure is being moved across or through any street or alley, a red light
must be illuminated at each corner of such building or structure from sunset to
sunrise. All ropes, blocks, winches, windlasses or other equipment used in the
moving of said building or structure must, when obstructing the free use of a
street or alley, be protected by suitable lights from sunset to sunrise.
   E.    Exceptions:
      1.    Manufactured structures approved by state and local building
authorities shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter, when otherwise
in compliance with section
10-4-5 of this title.
      2.    A state license will not be required for anyone moving a dwelling
not exceeding six hundred (600) square feet in area or a residential accessory
building, storage building, or similar building providing the building does not
exceed nine hundred (900) square feet in area and the loaded width, exclusive
of eaves, in all cases does not exceed twenty four feet (24').
   F.    Penalty:
      1.    Every person violating any of the provisions of this section shall
be penalized in accordance with the schedule of fines established by the city
council.
      2.    Nothing contained in this penalty provision shall prevent the city
from obtaining a proper injunction or restraining order directed against any
person violating any of the provisions of this section from the district court
for Clay County, Minnesota, in addition to such other penalties as allowed by
this section. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-5-4: SIGNS:
   A.    Purpose: The purpose and intent of this sign ordinance regulating
signs of all types is to:
      1.    Preserve and protect the public health, safety and welfare within
the city of Hawley.
      2.    Encourage development of private property in harmony with the
desired character of the city while providing due regard for the public and
private interests involved.
      3.    Promote the effectiveness of signs by preventing their over
concentration, improper placement, deterioration, and excessive size and
number.
      4.    Enhance the flow of traffic and the convenience, ease and enjoyment
of travel within the city of Hawley.
      5.    Protect travelers in the city of Hawley from injury or damage as a
result of distraction or obstruction of vision attributable to signs.
      6.    Reduce advertising distractions which may contribute to traffic
accidents.
      7.    Assure that public benefits derived from expenditures of public
funds for the improvement and beautification of streets and other public
structures and spaces shall be protected by exercising reasonable control over
the character and design of sign structures.
      8.    Provide an improved visual environment for the citizens of and
visitors to the city of Hawley.
      9.    Require that signs are properly maintained for safety and visual
appearance.
   B.    Maintenance Provision: All exterior signs are required to be
maintained in sound structural condition and nonweathered appearance. This is
essential to protect the public's safety and to retain good property values for
all property owners in the city limits.
   C.    Exempt Signs: The following signs are exempt from the application of
the regulations herein, provided that any exempt sign, if illuminated, be
internally illuminated or lit so that the light source is directed away from
adjoining residences, streets, or sidewalks:
      1.    Signs not exceeding two (2) square feet in area and bearing only
property numbers, post box numbers and names of occupants of premises.
      2.    A sign not exceeding two (2) square feet in area which is
nonilluminated and mounted flat against the wall of the principal building is
allowed for home occupations.
      3.    Flags and insignias of any government except when displayed in
connection with a commercial promotion.
      4.    An advertising sign in connection with a lawfully maintained
nonconforming use or conditional use, which complies with the conditions of
approval, if any, and subsection D of this section.
      5.    Legal notices, identification, informational or directional signs
erected or required by governmental bodies.
      6.    A sign advertising only the sale, rental or lease of the building
or premises, which may not exceed sixteen (16) square feet in area and five
feet (5') in height.
      7.    A sign not to exceed thirty two (32) square feet in area is
permitted for each entrance to a subdivision or tract identifying the
subdivision or tract name.
      8.    Temporary signs measuring not more than thirty two (32) square feet
in area connected with political elections.
   D.    On Premises Signs: On premises signs do not include signs erected by
the outdoor advertising industry in the conduct of the outdoor advertising
business. On premises signs include only signs directing attention to a
business, profession, product, service, activity or entertainment conducted,
sold or offered on the same premises upon which the sign is located are
permitted provided:
      1.    A sign permit must be obtained prior to installation of any signs,
with the exception of signs mounted flat against a building or listed uses
under exempt signs.
      2.    The on premises sign is located in a commercial zoning district (C-
1, C-2 or C-3), or an industrial zoning district (I-1 or I-2).
      3.    On premises signs not exceeding thirty two (32) square feet for
nursing homes, assisted living centers, publicly owned governmental and
cultural buildings, government and publicly regulated utility buildings and
structures, religious institutions, and medical clinics are permitted.
      4.    On premises signs not exceeding sixteen (16) square feet and not
lighted for approved home occupations are permitted.
      5.    The foundation base and posts of all signs may not be located upon
city property or rights of way unless approved by the city council.
      6.    No part of any sign or projection may protrude over the public
right of way within six feet (6') of the actual or proposed curb line. Signs,
marquees, awnings and similar projections may project over the right of way a
maximum of six feet (6') provided no part is within six feet (6') of the curb
line and that it is over eight feet (8') above the sidewalk or the average
grade at property line when no sidewalk is in place. If the street is widened,
the sign would have to be moved back at the owner's expense to maintain the six
foot (6') distance of the curb regulation.
      7.    No part of any sign or projection may be located within twenty five
feet (25') of the intersecting curb line of an intersection if it shall impede
vision between a height of thirty inches (30") and eight feet (8') (measured at
a 45 degree angle).
      8.    All sources of artificial light other than streetlights shall be
fixed directed or designed so as neither to measurably increase the amount of
light to any abutting lot nor to confuse, distract, or be a hazard to vehicular
traffic.
      9.    All sign installations shall also conform to Minnesota department
of transportation and federal aviation authorities wherever applicable. Please
note: the city has additional restrictive criteria to determine billboard
placement. See subsection E, "Off Premises Signs", of this section.
      10.    It is the obligation of the installer to call Gopher State One
Call according to state law and to properly work around all underground
utilities or services.
      11.    All signs must adhere to the maintenance/enforcement provisions of
this title.
   E.    Off Premises Signs: Off premises signs are only permitted when in
compliance with the following provisions:
      1.    A sign permit must be obtained prior to installation of any off
premises signs.
      2.    The foundation base and posts of all signs may not be located upon
city property or rights of way unless approved by the city council.
      3.    The off premises sign is located in a commercial zoning district
(C-1, C-2, C-3) or an industrial zoning district (I-1 or I-2).
      4.    No part of any sign or projection may be located within twenty five
feet (25') of the intersecting curb line of an intersection if it shall impede
vision between a height of thirty inches (30") and eight feet (8') (measured at
a 45 degree angle).
      5.    All sources of artificial light other than streetlights shall be
fixed, directed or designed so as not to measurable increase the amount of
light to any abutting lot, street or sidewalk, nor to confuse, distract, or be
a hazard to vehicular traffic.
      6.    Off premises signs must be set back from residential zoning
district boundaries a distance of one hundred feet (100'). Setback dimensions
will be a straight line measurement from the residential district boundary to
the centerline of the sign standard.
      7.    The off premises sign surface, at one sign site, measures no more
than seven hundred fifty (750) square feet in area, inclusive of the border and
trim, but exclusive of the base or apron, supports, or other structural
members.
      8.    The height of any off premises sign, including support structure
measured from the highest centerline grade of any adjacent street, may not
exceed thirty five feet (35') when located closer than one hundred feet (100')
from a property line and not more than fifty feet (50') when located more than
one hundred feet (100') from a property line. Height measurement will be taken
from the highest centerline grade of any adjacent street.
      9.    All sign installations shall also conform to Minnesota department
of transportation and federal aviation authorities wherever applicable. Please
note: The city has additional restrictive criteria to determine billboard
placement.
      10.    All off premises signage of three hundred (300) square feet or
more will be restricted to the south side of T.H. 10 within city limits. In
addition, signs must be a minimum distance of one thousand five hundred feet
(1,500') apart.
      11.    All off premises signs of less than three hundred (300) square
feet must be a minimum distance of six hundred feet (600') apart.
      12.    It is the obligation of the installer to call Gopher State One
Call according to state law and to properly work around all underground
utilities or services.
      13.    All signs must adhere to the maintenance/enforcement provisions of
this section.
Note: City leased signage on quad diamond outfield fences (less than 200 square
feet) is limited to three (3) sign groupings one hundred feet (100') apart.
   F.    Portable Signs: Portable signs are permitted provided:
      1.    Annual Permit: An annual sign permit is required for any portable
sign to verify location, safety, and visibility.
      2.    Location: The off premises sign is located in a commercial zoning
district (C-1, C-2, C-3) or an industrial zone district (I-1, I-2).
      3.    Placement On City Property; Approval: The foundation base and posts
of all signs may not be located upon city property or rights of way unless
approved in writing by the city council.
      4.    Projection Angle: No part of any sign or projection may be located
within twenty five feet (25') of the intersecting curb line of an intersection
if it shall impede vision between a height of thirty inches (30") and eight
feet (8') (measured at a 45 degree angle).
      5.    Lights: No portable sign may have blinking, flashing or fluttering
lights or other illuminating devices which have a changing intensity,
brightness, or color.
      6.    Location Apart: No two (2) off premises portable signs may be
located closer than three hundred feet (300') apart.
      7.    Number Limit: That only one on premises portable sign may be placed
upon a parcel at any given time, except in the case of strip malls, office
condos, and multiple business structures, where two (2) portable signs will be
allowed on the parcel at any given time.
      8.    Other Provisions: All signs must adhere to the maintenance/
enforcement provisions of this title.
      9.    Commercial/Highway Frontage Area: Advertising devices in a
commercial/highway frontage area whether located on or off the premises, shall
comply with MnDOT requirements in addition to city requirements.
   G.    Enforcement:
      1.    The sign owner will have sixty (60) days after an official written
notification from the city of Hawley to repair a deficient sign. The sign will
be removed from the premises if it is an immediate danger to the public. Any
costs the city incurs to enforce maintenance of a sign will be charged back to
the proper sign owner.
      2.    Every person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
be penalized in accordance with the schedule of fines established by the city
council.
      3.    Nothing contained in this penalty provision shall prevent the city
from obtaining a proper injunction or restraining order directed against any
person violating any of the provisions of this chapter from the district court
for Clay County, Minnesota, in addition to such other penalties as allowed by
this chapter.
      4.    Nothing in this section shall preclude city employees from seeking
voluntary compliance with the provisions of this chapter, or from enforcing
this chapter through notices of violation, warnings or through other informal
devices designed to achieve compliance in the most efficient and effective
manner under the circumstances. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-5-5: FENCES AND SCREENING:
   A.    Location: All fences shall be located entirely within the private
property of the person, firm or corporation constructing or causing the
construction of such fence.
   B.    Construction And Maintenance: Every fence shall be constructed in a
substantial workmanlike manner and of substantial material reasonably suitable
for the purpose for which the fence is proposed to be used. Every fence shall
be maintained in a condition of reasonable repair and shall not be allowed to
become or remain in a condition of disrepair or danger, or constitute a
nuisance, public or private. Any such fence which is, or has become dangerous
to the public safety, health or welfare, is a public nuisance, and the zoning
official is hereby authorized to commence proper proceedings for the abatement
thereof.
   C.    Restrictions: Barbed wire or electric fences shall not be permitted,
used or constructed in any districts except as provided for below:
      1.    Electric fences shall only be permitted in the TZ district when
related to farming, and hobby farms, and on farms in other districts when
related to farming, and must be located a minimum of five feet (5') from a
property line.
      2.    Barbed wire fences are not permitted in any districts within the
city except as permitted in subsection E of this section.
      3.    Barbed wire fences are permitted at the Hawley rodeo facility.
      4.    Fences which are primarily erected as a security measure may have
arms projecting into or out of the applicant's property on which barbed wire
can be fastened commencing at a point at least seven feet (7') aboveground and
it does not extend past property lines.
   D.    Residential District Fences: All residential fences shall be placed
within the property being fenced and conform to the following:
      1.    Fences in excess of six feet (6') in height will require a
conditional use permit.
      2.    Fences in required front yards shall not exceed thirty six inches
(36") in height.
      3.    The screening provisions for residential districts shall supersede,
where applicable, the provisions of this section.
      4.    All posts or similar supporting instruments used in the
construction of fences, shall be faced inward towards the property being
fenced.
      5.    All fences shall not obstruct natural drainage.
   E.    Business And Industrial District Fences:
      1.    Business and industrial fences may be erected up to eight feet (8')
in height. Fences in excess of eight feet (8') shall require a conditional use
permit.
      2.    Fences which are primarily erected as a security measure may have
arms projecting away from or toward the applicant's property on which barbed
wire can be fastened commencing at a point at least seven feet (7') above the
ground and not to extend over the applicant's property line.
      3.    The screening provisions for business and industrial districts
shall supersede, where applicable, the provisions of this section.
   F.    Special Purpose Fences: Fences for special purposes and fences
differing in construction, height, or length may be permitted by the zoning
official in any district in the city provided that the reasons submitted by the
applicant demonstrate the purpose is necessary to protect, buffer or improve
the premises for which such fence is intended. The zoning official may
stipulate the height, location, construction and type of special fence thereby
permitted.
   G.    Required Fencing And Screening:
      1.    Fencing And Screening – Business/Industrial, Multi-Family: Where
any business, industrial use or multi-family building of five (5) or more units
(i.e., structure, parking or storage) abuts property zoned for residential use,
that business, industry or multi-family building shall provide screening along
the boundary line of the residential property. Screening shall also be provided
where a business, industry or multi-family building of five (5) or more units
is across the street from a residential zone, but not on that side of a
business, industry or multi- family building considered to be the front yard.
Provided, however, that the provisions of this section will not apply where a
multi-family building abuts property also zoned for multi- family use. All
fencing and screening specifically required by this title shall be subject to
section H of this section and shall consist of either a fence or a greenbelt
planting strip as provided for below:
         a.    A greenbelt planting strip shall consist of evergreen trees and/
or deciduous trees and plants and shall be sufficient width and density to
provide an effective visual screen. This planting strip shall be designed to
provide substantial visual screening to a minimum height of six feet (6').
Earth mounding or berms may be used but shall not be used to achieve more than
three feet (3') of the required screen. The planting plan and type of plantings
shall require approval of the city.
         b.    A required screening fence shall be constructed of masonry,
brick, wood or metal. Such fence shall provide a solid screening effect five
feet (5') in height for multi-family uses and at least five feet (5') for
business and industrial uses. The design and materials used in constructing a
required screening fence shall be subject to the approval of the city. Fences
in excess of eight feet (8') in height shall require a conditional use permit.
   H.    Traffic Visibility:
      1.    Visibility At Intersections In Residential Districts: On a corner
lot, nothing shall be erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a
manner as to impede vision between a height of two feet (2') and eight feet
(8') and within thirty feet (30') from the intersecting curb lines, or within
twenty feet (20') from the intersecting property lines if there is no curb.
      2.    Fences, Walls, And Hedges: No fence, wall or hedge shall be
erected, placed, planted or allowed to grow in such a manner as to impede
vision between a height of two feet (2') and eight feet (8') where it will
interfere with traffic or pedestrian visibility from a driveway or alley to a
public way. In required front yards, fences, walls, hedges or structures shall
be at least seventy five percent (75%) open space for passage of air and light.
No fence exceeding twenty four inches (24") in height may be erected within ten
feet (10') of a driveway in a required side yard abutting a street corner lot
unless such fence is at least seventy five percent (75%) open.
   I.    Parking Lots And Driveways Abutting Residential Districts: Whenever a
parking lot or a driveway to a parking lot is established in other than a
residential district so as to abut the side or rear line of a lot in a
residential district, a sight obscuring fence of at least five feet (5') in
height shall be constructed and maintained along said side or rear lot line.
(Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-5-6: DAYCARE FACILITIES:
   A.    Purpose: The regulation of daycare facilities in these zoning
regulations is to establish standards and procedures by which daycare
facilities can be conducted within the city without jeopardizing the health,
safety and general welfare of the daycare participants and/or the surrounding
neighborhood. This section establishes the city's minimum requirements for the
establishment of daycare facilities which are not defined as permitted uses by
state statute or which are operated in uses other than single-family homes.
Daycare facilities other than those defined as permitted uses by state statutes
which operate in a single-family dwelling as an accessory use shall be subject
to section
10-5-10 of this chapter and processed as a home occupation.
   B.    Application: Daycare facilities which are not a permitted use in a
district shall be considered a conditional use within the R-1, R-2, R-3, C-1,
C-2, and TZ zoning districts of the city and shall be subject to the
regulations and requirements of section
10-3-3 of this title. In addition to the city regulation, all daycare facility
operations shall comply with the minimum requirements of the Minnesota
department of health and human services regulations, as may be amended.
   C.    Declaration Of Conditions: The planning commission may recommend and
the council may impose such conditions on the granting of a daycare facility
conditional use permit as may be necessary to carry out the purpose and
provisions of this section.
   D.    General Provisions: Daycare facilities shall be allowed as a principal
use or as an accessory use, provided that the daycare facilities meet all of
the applicable provisions of this section.
      1.    Lot Requirements And Setbacks: The proposed site for a daycare
facility must have a minimum lot area as determined by the Minnesota department
of health and human services. The council may increase the required lot area in
those cases where such an increase is considered necessary to ensure the
compatibility of activities and maintain the public health, safety and general
welfare. The daycare facility must meet the minimum setback requirements of the
respective zoning district.
      2.    Lot Requirements And Setbacks; Accessory Use: The site of the
proposed daycare facility as an accessory use shall meet all area and setback
provisions of the respective zoning district in which the facility is to be
located.
      3.    Screening: Where the daycare facility is in or abuts any commercial
or industrial use or zoned property, the daycare facility shall provide
screening along the shared boundary of such uses. All of the required fencing
and screening shall comply with the fencing and screening requirements of
section
10-5-5 of this chapter.
      4.    Parking:
         a.    For daycare facilities as a principal use, there shall be
adequate off street parking which shall be located separately from any outdoor
play area and shall be in compliance with section
10-5-1 of this chapter. Parking areas shall be screened from view of
surrounding and abutting residential uses in compliance with section
10-5-5 of this chapter.
         b.    When a daycare facility is an accessory use within a structure
containing another principal use, each use shall be calculated separately for
determining the total off street parking spaces required.
      5.    Loading: For daycare facilities as a principal use, one off street
loading space shall be provided.
      6.    Signage: All signing and informational or visual communication
devices shall be in compliance with the provisions of this code relating to
signs.
      7.    Compliance With State Requirements: The structure and operation
shall be in compliance with state of Minnesota, department of health and human
services regulations and be licensed accordingly.
   E.    Nonconforming Use: Existing daycare facilities lawfully existing on
the effective date hereof may continue as nonconforming uses. Any existing
daycare facility that is discontinued for a period of more than one hundred
twenty (120) days, or is in violation of the provisions of this section under
which it was initially established, shall be brought into conformity with the
provisions of this section.
   F.    Inspection: At any and all reasonable hours the city hereby reserves
the right upon issuing any daycare facility conditional use permit to inspect
the premises in which the occupation is being conducted to ensure compliance
with the provisions of this section or any conditions additionally imposed.
(Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-5-7: REGULATION OF ANTENNAS AND WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS:
   A.    Purpose: In order to accommodate the communication needs of residents
and businesses while protecting the public health, safety and general welfare
of the community, these regulations are necessary to facilitate provision of
wireless telecommunications service to the residents and businesses of the
city, minimize adverse visual effects of towers through careful design and
siting standards, avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from structural
failure through structural standards and setback requirements, and maximize the
use of existing and approved structures and buildings to accommodate new
wireless telecommunications antennas in order to reduce the number of towers
needed to serve the community.
   B.    Towers In Residential/Commercial/Industrial Zoning Districts:
      1.    Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and conforming to all
applicable provisions of this code are allowed only in the rear yard of
residential zoned property.
      2.    Towers supporting commercial antennas and conforming to all
applicable provisions of this code are allowed only upon city owned property
upon issuance of a lease from the city of Hawley.
   C.    Colocation Requirement: All commercial wireless telecommunication
towers erected, constructed, or located within the city must be approved
through a conditional use permit and comply with the following requirements:
      1.    A proposal for a new commercial wireless telecommunications tower
must not be approved unless the applicant proves that the telecommunications
equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot be accommodated on an existing
or approved tower or building within a reasonable search radius of the proposed
tower due to one or more of the following reasons:
         a.    The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified
professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be reinforced
or modified to accommodate planned or equivalent equipment at a reasonable
cost.
         b.    The planned equipment would cause interference materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or
building as documented by a qualified professional engineer and the
interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost.
         c.    Existing or approved towers and building within the search
radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to
function reasonably as documented by a qualified professional engineer.
         d.    Other unforeseen reasons that make it infeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.
      2.    Any proposed commercial telecommunications tower must be designed,
structurally, electrically, and in all respects, to accommodate both the
applicant's antennas and comparable antennas for at least one additional user.
   D.    Tower Construction Requirements: All towers erected, constructed, or
located within the city, and all wiring therefor, must comply with the
Minnesota state building code.
   E.    Tower And Antenna Design Requirements: Proposed or modified towers and
antennas must meet the following design requirements:
      1.    Towers and antennas must be designed to blend into the surrounding
environment through the use of color, except in instances where the color is
dictated by federal or state authorities such as the federal aviation
administration.
      2.    Commercial wireless telecommunication towers must be a monopole
design unless the city council determines that an alternative design would
better blend into the surrounding environment if the applicant provides
evidence to the city that an alternative design is necessary to successfully
engage in commercial telecommunication services.
      3.    Towers and antennas must be designed to function without guy wires.
   F.    Tower Setbacks: Towers must conform with each of the following minimum
setback requirements:
      1.    Towers must meet the setbacks of the underlying zoning district and
may not encroach upon any easement.
      2.    Towers must be setback from the public right of way a minimum
distance equal to one-half (1/2) of the height of the tower including all
antennas and attachments.
      3.    Towers may not be located between a principal structure and a
public street within a front or side yard, with the following exceptions:
         a.    In industrial zoning districts, towers may be placed within a
side yard abutting an internal industrially zoned street.
         b.    On sites adjacent to public street on all sides, towers may be
placed within a side yard abutting a local street.
   G.    Tower Height: All proposed towers must meet the following height
limitations:
      1.    The height of towers will be determined by measuring the vertical
distance from the tower's center point of contact with the ground or rooftop to
the highest point of the tower, including all antennas or other attachments.
When towers are mounted upon other structures, the combined height of the
structure and tower must meet the height restrictions.
      2.    Towers must conform to the following height restrictions:
         a.    In all nonresidential zoning districts, the maximum height of
any tower, including all antennas and other attachments, must not exceed one
foot (1') for each two feet (2') the tower is set back from a residential
zoning district or a maximum height of one hundred fifty feet (150'), whichever
is less, unless the applicant provided evidence to the city that the proposed
tower height is technically necessary to successfully engage in commercial
communication services.
         b.    All towers must conform to these maximum height restrictions of
this section, unless located upon public buildings and utility structures.
   H.    Tower Lighting: Towers must not be illuminated by artificial means and
not display strobe lights unless such lighting is specifically required by the
federal aviation administration or other federal or state authority for a
particular tower. When incorporated into the approved design of the tower,
light fixtures used to illuminate ball fields, parking lots, or similar areas
may be attached to the tower.
   I.    Signs And Advertising: The use of any portion of a tower for signs
other than warning or equipment information is prohibited.
   J.    Screening: All towers and structures accessory to the tower must be
screened in accordance with the requirements stipulated in the conditional use
permit.
   K.    Abandoned Or Unused Towers Or Portions Of Towers: All abandoned or
unused towers and associated facilities must be removed within seven (7) months
of the cessation of operations at the site unless a time extension is approved
by the city council. In the event that a tower is not removed within seven (7)
months of the cessation of operations at the site, the tower and associated
facilities may be removed by the city and the costs of removal billed to owner
of tower.
   L.    Antennas Mounted On Roofs, Walls, And Existing Towers: The placement
of commercial wireless telecommunication antennas in C-1, C-2, C-3, I-1 and I-
2 districts on roofs, walls and existing towers may be approved by the
resolution of the city council, provided the antennas meet the requirements of
this section. Requests under this section must be accompanied by a final site
plan and building plan and a report prepared by a qualified professional
engineer indicating the existing structure or tower's suitability to accept the
antenna, and the proposed method for affixing the antenna to the structure.
Complete details of all fixtures and couplings, and the precise point of
attachment must be indicated.
   M.    Interference With Public Safety Telecommunications: No new or existing
telecommunications service may interfere with public safety telecommunications.
Before the introduction of new service or changes in frequencies or maximum
signal output, telecommunication providers must notify the city at least ten
(10) calendar days in advance of such changes and allow the city to monitor
interference levels during the testing process.
   N.    Towers And Antennas Upon Public Right Of Way And Public Property: With
the exception of the necessary electric and telephone service and connection
lines approved by the city, no part of any antenna or tower nor any lines,
cable, equipment, or wire or braces in connection with either may at any time
extend across or over any part of the public right of way, public street,
highway, sidewalk, or property line.
   O.    Additional Submittal Requirements:
      1.    In addition to the information required elsewhere in this title,
development applications for towers must include the following supplemental
information:
         a.    Descriptions of the tower height and design including cross
section elevation,
         b.    Documentation of the height above grade for all potential
mounting positions for collated antennas and the minimum separation distances
between antennas,
         c.    Descriptions of the tower's capacity, including the number and
type of antennas that can be accommodated,
         d.    Documentation regarding what steps the applicant will take to
avoid interference with established public safety telecommunications,
         e.    Other information necessary to evaluate the request.
      2.    For all commercial wireless telecommunication service towers, a
letter of intent committing the tower owner and his or her successor to allow
the shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees in writing to meet
reasonable terms and conditions for shared use.
      3.    Before the issuance of a zoning permit, the following supplemental
information must be submitted:
         a.    Proof that the proposed tower complies with regulations
administered by federal aviation administration; and
         b.    A report from a qualified professional engineer which
demonstrates the tower's compliance with the aforementioned structural and
electrical standards. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-5-8: GENERAL YARD, LOT AREA AND BUILDING REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Purpose: This section identifies yard, lot area, building type and
height requirements in each zoning district and establishes general development
standards.
   B.    Usable Open Space: Except for elderly (senior citizen) housing, each
multiple-family dwelling site shall contain at least three hundred fifty (350)
square feet of "useable open space" as defined in section
10-2-1 of this title for each dwelling unit contained therein.
   C.    Height:
      1.    Building heights in excess of those standards contained in the
district provisions may be allowed through a conditional use permit, provided
that:
         a.    The site is capable of accommodating the increased intensity of
use.
         b.    The increased intensity of use does not cause an increase in
traffic volumes beyond the capacity of the surrounding streets.
         c.    Public utilities and services are adequate.
         d.    For each additional story over the district limitation or for
each additional ten feet (10') above the maximum allowed per district, front
and side yard setback requirements shall be increased by ten percent (10%).
         e.    The provisions regarding section
10-3-3 of this title are considered and satisfactorily met.
      2.    The building height limits established for district shall not apply
to the following:
         a.    Belfries.
         b.    Chimneys or flues.
         c.    Church spires.
         d.    Cooling towers.
         e.    Cupolas and domes which do not contain useable floor space.
         f.    Elevator penthouses.
         g.    Flagpoles.
         h.    Monuments.
         i.    Parapet wall extending not more than three feet (3') above the
limiting height of the building.
         j.    Poles, towers and other structure for essential services.
         k.    Necessary mechanical and electrical appurtenances.
         l.    Farm buildings.
         m.    Wind energy conversion system towers as regulated by section
10-5-2 of this chapter.
         n.    Communication, reception/transmission devices as regulated by
section
10-5-7 of this chapter.
      3.    No excluded roof equipment or structural element extending beyond
the limited height of a building may occupy more than twenty five percent (25%)
of the area of such roof nor exceed ten feet (10').
   D.    Building Type And Construction:
      1.    No galvanized or unfinished steel, galvalum or unfinished aluminum
buildings (walls or roofs), except those specifically intended to have a
corrosive designed finish shall be permitted in any zoning district, except in
the I-1, I-2, TZ, and C-3 zoning districts.
      2.    Exterior building finishes shall consist of materials comparable in
grade to the following:
         a.    Brick.
         b.    Natural stone.
         c.    Decorative concrete block.
         d.    Cast in place concrete or precast concrete panels.
         e.    Wood; provided, the surfaces are finished for exterior use and
wood of proven exterior durability is used, such as cedar, redwood or cypress.
         f.    Curtain wall panels of steel, fiberglass and aluminum
(nonstructural, load bearing); provided that such panels are factory fabricated
and finished with a durable nonfade surface and their fasteners are of a
corrosion resistant design.
         g.    Glass curtain wall panels and glass block.
         h.    Stucco.
         i.    Vinyl.
         j.    Steel, aluminum and masonite siding.
         k.    Other materials as determined by the city zoning official but
not including galvanized or unfinished metal, except in the I-1, I-2, TZ, and
C-3 zoning districts.
   E.    Yards: No lot, yard or other open space shall be reduced in area or
dimension so as to make such lot, yard or open space less than the minimum
required by this title, and if the existing yard or other open space as
existing is less than the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced. No
required open space provided for any building or structure shall be included as
part of any open space required for another structure.
      1.    The following shall not be considered as encroachments on yard
setback requirements:
         a.    Chimneys And Ornamental Features: Chimneys, flues, leaders,
pilasters, lintels, ornamental features, sills, cornices, buttresses, eaves,
gutters and the like may project not more than two and one-half feet (21/2')
into any required yard. Gutters attached to eaves may project six inches (6")
beyond the eaves.
         b.    Walks Or Steps: Walks or steps for negotiating ground slopes,
retaining walls, hedged and natural growth, paved terraces, paved areas or
similar features.
         c.    Access Ramps: Ramps for access by persons with disabilities may
extend to a property line.
         d.    Heating Or Air Conditioning Equipment: Equipment for essential
services, and heating and air conditioning equipment, all accessory to and
customarily incidental to the principal use, are permitted in yards and courts.
Exception: Heating and air conditioning equipment is not permitted in a front
yard, unless screened.
         e.    Fire Balconies And Escapes: Open work fire balconies and fire
escapes may not extend more than three feet (3') into a required yard.
         f.    Additions: An addition to a lawfully established structure which
because of a change in the setback requirements (from 1974 ordinance) is not in
conformance with the current requirements may be added to even if the addition
violates the current setback requirements provided that:
            (1)    The addition does not encroach across a property line.
            (2)    The addition does not extend into the applicable yard
requirement greater than the existing structure.
            (3)    The length of the addition may not exceed the length of that
part of the existing structure which is in violation of the current setback
requirement or twenty feet (20'), whichever is less.
   F.    Uncovered Porches And Decks: Uncovered porches and decks may not
extend into a side, rear, or front yard setback. No exterior stand alone wood
burning units are permitted in any zoning district.
   G.    Minimum Lot Area Per Unit: The lot area per unit requirement for
single-family, two-family, townhouse, apartment and planned unit developments
shall be calculated on the basis of the total area on the lot.
      1.    One-Family: As specified in zoning district provisions.
      2.    Multiple-Family: As specified in zoning district provisions.
   H.    Single-Family Dwellings: All single-family detached homes except in
the R-4 district shall:
      1.    Be constructed upon a permanent foundation that meets the
requirements of the state building code.
      2.    Not be less than twenty two feet (22') in width. Width measurements
shall not take account of overhang and other projections beyond the principal
walls.
   I.    Dwelling Unit Restriction:
      1.    No garage, tent, accessory building, travel trailer or motor home
shall at any time be used as living quarters, temporarily or permanently.
      2.    Energy conserving designs in housing are not prohibited by this
provision of this title, provided that a conditional use permit is approved by
the council and the structure complies with the standards imposed by the state
and the uniform building code.
      3.    Tents, playhouses, travel trailer or motor homes or similar
structures may be used only for play or recreational purposes.
      4.    No accessory building or structure other than a fence or temporary
construction office may be constructed prior to the time of construction of the
principal building or structure.
   J.    Platted And Unplatted Property:
      1.    Any person desiring to improve property shall submit to the zoning
official an accurate description of the property to be improved including
front, rear and side yard lot lines of said premises and information on the
location and dimensions of existing and proposed buildings, location of
easements crossing the property, encroachments and any other information which
may be necessary to ensure conformance to city provisions.
      2.    All buildings shall be placed so that they will not obstruct future
streets, which may be constructed by the city in conformity with existing
streets and according to the system and standards employed by the city.
      3.    Not more than one principal building shall be located on a lot.
   K.    Swimming Pools:
      1.    A permit shall be required for all swimming pools with a capacity
of five thousand (5,000) gallons and/or two feet (2') or more of depth. Each
application for a permit to construct or erect a swimming pool shall be
accompanied by plans of sufficient detail to show:
         a.    The proposed location and its relationship, to the other
principal buildings on the lot.
         b.    The size of the pool.
         c.    Fencing and other fixtures existing on the lot, including
utility location and trees.
         d.    That the requirements contained in subsection K2 of this section
will be satisfied.
      2.    All pools for which a permit is required and granted shall be
provided with safeguards to prevent children from gaining uncontrolled access.
This can be accomplished with fencing, screening or other enclosure, or any
combination thereof, of sufficient density as to be impenetrable. If fences are
employed, they shall be at least six feet (6') in height. The bottoms of the
fences shall not be more than four inches (4") from the ground. Fences shall be
of a noncorrosive material and shall be constructed so as to be not easily
climbable. All fencing openings or points of entry into the pool enclosure
shall be equipped with gates or doors. All gates or doors to swimming pools
shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching devices placed at a
sufficient height so as to be inaccessible to small children. All fenceposts
shall be decay or corrosion resistant and shall be set in concrete bases or
other suitable protection. The opening between the bottom of the fence and the
ground or other surfaces shall be not more than four inches (4").
      3.    Aboveground and belowground swimming pools are permitted in rear
yards only. A minimum setback of eight feet (8') must be maintained from the
edge of the pool to a side or rear property line.
   L.    Drainage Plans:
      1.    In the case of all residential subdivisions, multiple-family,
commercial and industrial developments, the drainage plans with appropriate
spot site elevations shall be submitted to the city for review and the final
drainage plan shall be subject to written approval. In the case of such uses,
no modifications in grade and drainage flow through fill, erection of retaining
walls or other such actions shall be permitted until such plans have been
reviewed and received written approval from the city engineer. (Ord. 230, 5-6-
2002)
      2.    New residential construction shall have the building elevation
requirements set by the city engineer in writing. The elevation shall be
measured as the difference in the following two (2) points: from the front
elevation of the finished garage floor, to the flowline of curb (lowest point
of curb) measured from the center of the driveway.
The typical range shall be thirty (30) to thirty six inches (36"). The final
determination will be made by the city engineer to avoid drainage problems and
other potential conflicts. (Ord. 236, 7-26-2004)
      3.    Hawley city council may set a uniform foundation elevation for new
subdivisions by resolution.
   M.    Glare: Any lighting used to illuminate an off street parking area,
signs or other structures, shall be arranged as to deflect light away from any
adjoining residential zone or from the public streets. Direct or sky reflected
glare, where from floodlights or from high temperature processes such as
combustion or welding shall not be directed into any adjoining property. The
source of light shall be hooded or controlled in some manner so as not to light
adjacent property. Bare light bulbs shall not be permitted in view of adjacent
property or public right of way. Any light or combination of lights which cast
light on residential property shall not exceed four (4) foot-candles (meter
reading) as measured from said property. This section shall not apply to sports
stadiums and athletic fields or to public recreational facilities.
   N.    Refuse:
      1.    Location And Screening: All refuse and refuse handling equipment
including, but not limited to, garbage cans, dumpsters and recycling containers
shall be stored within the principal structure, within an accessory building,
or for exterior storage, totally screened from eye level view from all
neighboring uses, and the public right of way, except for the following:
         a.    Detached single-family residences.
         b.    Duplexes.
         c.    All other residential structures with four (4) dwelling units or
less.
      2.    Exterior Storage: Exterior storage shall require the following:
         a.    The enclosed trash receptacle area shall be located in the rear
or side yard and shall observe all applicable setback requirements and
easements.
         b.    The trash enclosure must be in an accessible location for pick
up hauling vehicles.
         c.    The trash receptacles must be fully screened from view of
adjacent properties and the public right of way by a fence or wall of at least
five feet (5') in height and a minimum opaqueness of eighty percent (80%).
   O.    Outside Storage, Residential, Commercial And Industrial Uses:
      1.    In residentially zoned areas, the following items shall not be
stored on a lot, unless they are within a building:
         a.    Racing cars.
         b.    Recreational equipment, recreational vehicles, utility trailers
or equipment, and off road vehicles kept in a side yard or rear yard must be
parked on a gravel, paved, or concrete surface. No parking in front yard is
allowed.
         c.    Construction and landscaping material, unless they are currently
being used on the premises.
         d.    On and off street parking of noncurrently registered and/or
inoperable passenger vehicles and trucks.
         e.    Front yard exterior storage of firewood, or any exterior storage
of firewood, which storage is not for the purpose of consumption by the person
or persons on whose property it is stored.
         f.    Household storage including lawn maintenance and snow removal
equipment and tools, furniture, and recreational tools and equipment, when not
in use, must be kept in a garage, storage building, screened enclosure in a
rear yard, or behind the dwelling so as not to be visible from the street.
      2.    All nonresidential outside storage shall conform to the following
conditions:
         a.    The area occupied is not within a required front or required
side yard.
         b.    The storage area is totally fenced or fully screened. For
purposes of this subsection O, storage does not include the display of goods
which are being sold at retail to the general public such as automobiles,
trucks, farm equipment and similar items.
         c.    The storage area is surfaced to control dust and drainage
according to a plan submitted to and subject to approval of the city engineer.
Gravel surface storage is permitted when approved by the city engineer.
         d.    All lighting shall be hooded and so directed that the light
source shall be in compliance with subsection M of this section.
         e.    The storage area does not encroach upon required parking spaces
or required loading space as required by this chapter.
         f.    A site plan documenting the location and grading of the storage
operation shall be submitted and shall be subject to the approval of the city
engineer. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-5-9: ACCESSORY STRUCTURES, USES AND EQUIPMENT:
   A.    Accessory Structures, Uses, And Equipment In Residential Districts:
      1.    Within Front Yard: With the exception of a garage or driveway, no
accessory building, structure, use or equipment may be placed within a front
yard.
      2.    Maximum Size; Permit: On a lot with an existing garage, no storage
shed, tool shed, hobby shed or similar building for a single-family dwelling
may occupy more than one hundred fifty (150) square feet, except by conditional
use permit.
      3.    Lot Requirements: In addition to a garage, not more than one
storage shed, tool shed, hobby shed and/or similar building and/or structure
may be permitted on any single parcel, except by conditional use permit.
Buildings such as gazebos, outdoor living rooms, pool enclosures and similar
buildings may be constructed in addition to garages, storage sheds, tool and
hobby sheds but subject to the lot coverage requirements for the district in
which located.
      4.    Additional Structures; Permit: No permit shall be issued for the
construction of more than one accessory building and/or structure on any single
lot except for an accessory building for storage not exceeding one hundred
twenty (120) square feet in addition to a detached garage, except by
conditional use.
      5.    Encroachment: Accessory buildings including those of less than one
hundred twenty (120) square feet may not encroach into the required side and
rear yard setbacks and required easements.
      6.    Setback Requirements: Except as otherwise noted, accessory
buildings and uses for all principal uses other than single- family detached
dwellings shall conform to the setback requirements specified for the
respective zoning district in which they are located.
      7.    Lot Area: For lots under ten thousand (10,000) square feet in area,
the total floor area of a detached garage or garages may not exceed nine
hundred (900) square feet of floor area; for lots of ten thousand (10,000)
square feet to under twenty one thousand seven hundred eighty (21,780) square
feet the garage area may not exceed one thousand one hundred fifty (1,150)
square feet; and for lots twenty one thousand seven hundred eighty (21,780)
square feet or more, the garage area may not exceed one thousand five hundred
(1,500) square feet, and in all cases may not exceed the ground coverage of the
dwelling, except by conditional use permit.
      8.    Private Garages; Permit: No zoning permit may be issued for more
than one private garage for each single-family dwelling, except by conditional
use permit, except lots in excess of twenty one thousand seven hundred eighty
(21,780) square feet may have two (2) garages and the total area of both
garages may not exceed one thousand five hundred (1,500) square feet or the
ground coverage of the dwelling, except by conditional use permit.
      9.    Footprint Of Main Floor: When a garage, storage building, or other
accessory structure contains a loft, attic, or second story, only the footprint
of the main floor of the building shall be used to determine its size.
   B.    Floor Area: Except in the case of single-family detached dwellings,
and two-family dwellings, accessory buildings shall not exceed seventy percent
(70%) of the gross floor area of the principal buildings. Accessory buildings
for single-family dwellings shall be limited by subsection A of this section.
Garages and storage or similar buildings for two-family dwellings must be
limited to nine hundred (900) square feet in area per dwelling unit. A
conditional use permit is required for exceptions to these limitations.
   C.    Height Limitations: Except as expressly allowed by conditional use
permit, accessory buildings shall not exceed sixteen feet (16') in height.
Accessory buildings other than garages shall be limited to fourteen feet (14')
in height on all two-family or town house unit lots.
   D.    Conditional Use Permits: Application for a conditional use permit
under this section shall be regulated by chapter 3 of this title. Such a
conditional use permit may be granted provided that:
      1.    There is a demonstrated need and potential for continued use of the
structure and the purpose stated.
      2.    In the case of residential uses, no commercial or home occupation
activities are conducted on the property.
      3.    The building has an evident reuse or function related to the
principal use.
      4.    Accessory buildings shall be maintained in a manner that is
compatible with the adjacent uses and does not present a hazard to public
health, safety and general welfare.
      5.    The provisions of chapter 3 of this title shall be considered and a
determination made that the proposed activity is in compliance with such
criteria. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
10-5-10: HOME OCCUPATIONS:
   A.    Purpose: The purpose of this section is to provide a means through the
establishment of specific standards and procedures by which home occupations
can be conducted in residential neighborhoods without jeopardizing the health,
safety and general welfare of the surrounding neighborhood.
   B.    Application: Subject to the nonconforming use provision of this title,
all occupations conducted in the home shall comply with the provisions of this
title. This section shall not be construed, however, to apply to home
occupations accessory to farming.
   C.    Requirements; General Provisions: All home occupations shall comply
with the following general provisions and according to definition, the
applicable requirement provisions:
      1.    General Provisions:
         a.    No home occupation shall produce light glare, noise, fumes, odor
or vibration that will in any way have an objectionable effect upon adjacent or
neighboring properties.
         b.    No equipment shall be used in the home occupation which will
create electrical interference to surrounding properties. No equipment shall be
used which creates visual or audible interference in any radio or television
receivers off the premises or causes fluctuations in the voltage off the
premises.
         c.    Any home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to
the residential use of the premises. Not more than twenty five percent (25%) of
the square footage of livable space of the dwelling unit shall be permanently
set aside to be used in the conduct of the home occupation. It should not
change the residential character thereof, and shall result in no
incompatibility or disturbance to the surrounding residential uses.
         d.    No home occupation shall require internal or external
alterations or involve construction features not customarily found in dwellings
except where required to comply with local and state fire and police
recommendations.
         e.    There shall be no exterior storage of equipment or material used
in the home occupation, except personal automobiles used in the home occupation
may be parked on the site.
         f.    The home occupation shall meet all applicable fire and building
codes.
         g.    There shall be no exterior display or exterior signs or interior
display or interior signs which are visible from outside the dwelling unit with
the exception of directional and identification/business signs to the extent
authorized by the provisions of section
10-5-4 of this chapter relating to signs.
         h.    All home occupations shall comply with the provisions of this
code.
         i.    No home occupation shall be conducted between the hours of ten
o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M. unless said occupation is
contained entirely within the principal building and will not require any on
street parking facilities.
         j.    Home occupations shall not create a parking demand in excess of
that which can be accommodated in an existing driveway, where no vehicle is
parked closer than fifteen feet (15') from the curb line or edge of paved
surface.
         k.    Not more than one person other than those who customarily reside
on the premises shall be employed.
         l.    The home occupation shall not involve any of the following:
small engine or auto repair or reconditioning or manufacturing.
         m.    All permitted home occupations must be conducted entirely within
a building and must comply with the requirements of section
10-5-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 230, 5-6-2002)
CHAPTER 6
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS
SECTION:
10-6- 1: Authority
10-6- 2: Purpose
10-6- 3: Public Benefit
10-6- 4: General Provisions
10-6- 5: Site Design
10-6- 6: Minimum Area
10-6- 7: Application Procedure
10-6- 8: Standards
10-6- 9: Time Limit On Approved Planned Unit Development
10-6-10: Effect Of Approval Of A Planned Unit Development
10-6-11: Regulations During And Following Completion Of Development
10-6-12: Adjustments To The Development Site Plan
10-6-13: Fee
10-6-1: AUTHORITY:
The City Council may, in accordance with the procedures and standards set forth
in this chapter, and other standards and regulations applicable to the district
in which the subject property is located, approve by ordinance, planned unit
developments for uses as listed within each zoning district. (Ord. 296, 3-18-
2024)
10-6-2: PURPOSE:
A planned unit development is intended to encourage the efficient use of land
and resources, to promote greater efficiency in public and utility services,
and to encourage innovation in the planning and building of all types of
development. A planned unit development may be approved by the City Council
following a review and recommendation by the Planning Commission. (Ord. 296, 3-
18-2024)
10-6-3: PUBLIC BENEFIT:
The public benefits to the surrounding neighborhood and the City as a whole
that are intended to be derived from the approval of a planned unit development
include, but are not limited to:
   A.   Preservation and enhancement of desirable site characteristics and open
space.
   B.   A pattern of development which preserves natural vegetation,
topographic and geologic features.
   C.   Preservation and enhancement of historic and natural resources that
significantly contribute to the character of the City.
   D.   Use of design, landscape, or architectural features to create a
pleasing environment or other special development features.
   E.   Provision of a variety or housing types in accordance with the City's
housing goals.
   F.   Elimination of blighted structures or incompatible uses through
redevelopment or rehabilitation.
   G.   Business and commercial development to enhance the local economy and
strengthen the tax base.
   H.   The efficient use of land resulting in more economic networks of
utilities, streets, schools, public grounds, buildings, and other facilities.
(Ord. 296, 3-18-2024)
10-6-4: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
The following general provisions shall govern the review, approval, and
establishment of planned unit developments.
   A.   Control Of The Planned Development: A planned unit development may be
established for any parcel or tract of land under single ownership or control.
The property included in the Planned Unit Development shall be planned and
developed or redeveloped as a single unit and in a manner consistent with the
intent and purpose for which a planned unit development may be permitted.
   B.   Uses Allowed: All permitted and conditional uses listed in a specific
district are allowed as planned unit developments. Where residential units are
provided as part of a planned unit development, regardless of the specific
district, they may be of one-family attached, one-family detached, townhouse,
or clustered or multiple-family type construction. Mixed-use planned unit
developments are permitted and encouraged provided they meet the intent and
purpose for which a planned unit development is permitted. Uses not listed as
permitted or conditional in a specific district shall not be allowed in a
planned unit development unless it is found that the use is complementary to
the functionality of the development and the other uses found therein.
   C.   Authority To Modify Regulations: The City Council shall have the
authority in approving any planned unit development to change, alter, modify,
or waive any provision of this Chapter or the subdivision regulations as they
apply to the proposed planned unit development. No such change, alteration,
modification or waiver shall be approved unless the City Council shall find
that the proposed planned unit development:
      1.   Will achieve the purpose for which a planned unit development may be
approved pursuant to this Section.
      2.   Will not violate the general purpose, goals, and objectives of this
Chapter and of any plans adopted by the Planning Commission or the City
Council.
   D.   Limitations: No change, alteration, modification or waiver authorized
by this chapter shall authorize a change in uses allowed in any district or a
modification with respect to any standard established by this Section, or a
modification with respect to any standard in a zoning district made
specifically applicable to a planned unit development, unless the regulation
expressly authorizes such a change, alteration, modification or waiver. (Ord.
296, 3-18-2024)
10-6-5: SITE DESIGN:
   A.   The number of principal use structures which may be constructed within
the planned unit development shall be determined by dividing the net acreage of
the project acreage by the required lot area per unit that is required in the
district in which the planned unit development is located. The net acreage
shall be defined as the project area less the land area dedicated for public
streets or other public purposes. The project area includes all the land within
the planned unit development that is allocated for residential, institutional,
commercial, or industrial uses, and for common open space as required.
   B.   The development plan shall contain such proposed covenants, easements,
and other provisions relating to the bulk, location, and density of permitted
structures, accessory structures, and public facilities as may be necessary for
the welfare of the planned unit development and the City.
   C.   The common open space, and other common properties, individual
properties, and all other elements of the planned unit development shall be so
planned that they achieve a unified scheme of integrated planning and a
harmonious selection and efficient distribution of uses.
   D.   Common open space within a planned unit development must be used for
amenity or recreational purposes. Motor vehicle parking areas and traffic
corridors shall not be considered an approved use of common open space. The
uses authorized for the common open space must be approved to the scale and
character of the planned unit development, and consider the planned unit
development's size, density, topography, and number and type of structures to
be provided.
   E.   Common open space must be suitably improved for its intended use.
Common open space containing natural features worthy of preservation may be
left unimproved. The development plan must coordinate the improvement of the
common open space and the construction of the permitted structures within the
planned unit development.
   F.   Adequate access shall be provided for fire and emergency vehicles.
(Ord. 296, 3-18-2024)
10-6-6: MINIMUM AREA:
A planned unit development proposed for any parcel or tract of land under
single ownership or control shall have a minimum net site area for each zoning
district as set forth below.
A. Residential Districts Minimum Area
A. Residential Districts                 Minimum Area
  R-1, Large Lot Residential            Two (2) acres
  R-1a, Medium Lot Residential          Two (2) acres
  R-2, Neighborhood Residential         Two (2) acres
  R-3, Multi Family Residential         Two (2) acres
  R-4, Manufactured Housing Residential Two (2) acres
B. Commercial Districts                  Minimum Area
  C-1, Central Commercial               Four (4) acres
  C-2, Highway Commercial               Four (4) acres
  C-3, Agriculture Commercial           Four (4) acres
C. Industrial Districts                  Minimum Area
  I-1, Light Industrial                 Five (5) acres
  I-2, Heavy Industrial                 Five (5) acres
  TZ, Transition Zone                   Five (5) acres
10-6-7: APPLICATION PROCEDURE:
An application for a planned unit development shall be processed in accordance
with the following procedures:
   A.   Pre-Application Conference: Prior to submitting a formal application
for a planned unit development, an applicant shall participate in a pre-
application conference with the Planning Zoning Administrator and/or Mayor.
Representatives of other City departments and decision-making bodies may also
be present where appropriate. The purpose of the pre-application conference is
to enable the applicant to present the concept of the proposed planned unit
development and to discuss the procedures and standards for planned unit
development approval. The conference is intended to facilitate the filing and
consideration of a formal planned unit development application. No
representations made by any representatives of the City's departments or
decision-making bodies during the pre-application conference shall be binding
upon the City with respect to a formal application subsequently submitted.
   B.   Information Needed For The Pre-Application Conference: The applicant
shall provide the following information at the time of the scheduling of the
pre-application conference:
      1.   Concept site plan.
      2.   Narrative summary of the proposal.
      3.   Description of the land uses and neighboring characteristics.
   C.   Formal Application-Development Plan: Formal applications for a planned
unit development shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator on a form
provided and accompanied by such number of copies as so indicated. Upon receipt
of a properly completed formal application for a planned unit development, the
Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the Planning Commission the
application together with all papers and plans attached thereto. All formal
applications for a planned unit development shall include at least the
following information:
      1.   General Information:
         a.   The applicant's name, address, telephone number, and interest in
the property.
         b.   The owner's name, address, and telephone number, if different
than the applicant, and the owner's signed consent to the filing of the
application.
         c.   The street address and legal description of the property.
         d.   The zoning classification, zoning district boundaries, and
present use of the property.
         e.   The proposed title of the project and the names, addresses, and
telephone numbers of the architect, landscape architect, planner, or engineer
on the project.
      2.   Preliminary Development Site Plan: A development site plan shall be
drawn at a scale of twenty feet (20') to one inch (1") and shall contain at
least the following, unless determined not applicable by the Zoning
Administrator:
         a.   The location, dimensions, and total area of the site.
         b.   The location, dimensions, floor area, type of construction, and
use of each proposed building or structure and setbacks from property lines.
         c.   The number, the size, and type of dwelling units in each
building, and the overall dwelling unit density.
         d.   The proposed treatment of open spaces and the exterior surfaces
of all structures, with sketches of proposed landscaping and structures,
including typical elevations.
         e.   Architectural graphics, including typical floor plans and
elevations, profiles, and cross-sections.
         f.   The number, location, and dimensions of parking spaces and
loading docks, with means of ingress and egress.
         g.   The proposed traffic circulation pattern within the area of the
development, including the location and description of public improvements to
be installed, including any streets and access easements.
         h.   A vehicular traffic analysis.
         i.   The location of all fire hydrants on the property and the
location of all fire hydrants within one-hundred fifty feet (150') of the
property.
         j.   The location and dimensions of all accesses for fire and
emergency vehicles.
         k.   Statement of whether or not the building will be sprinkled and
fire flow availability for the sprinkler system and fire hydrants.
         I.   The location and intensity of safety and security lighting.
         m.   The location and purpose of any existing or proposed dedication
or easement.
         n.   The general drainage plan for the development tract.
         o.   The location and dimensions of adjacent properties, abutting
public right-of-ways and easements, and utilities serving the site.
         p.   Significant topographical or physical features of the site,
including existing trees.
         q.   Wetland delineation showing all wetlands present on the site.
         r.   The location and proposed treatment of any historical structure
or other historical design element or feature.
      3.   Preliminary Plat Of Survey: A preliminary plat of the property shall
be submitted. The layout of the plat shall conform to the development plan.
      4.   Additional Information: The application shall also contain the
following information and be accompanied by the following submissions, as well
as such additional information, drawings, plans or documentation as may be
requested by the Zoning Administrator or the Planning Commission, if determined
necessary or appropriate for a full and proper consideration and disposition of
the application.
         a.   A certificate of disclosure of ownership interest.
         b.   When the proposed planned unit development includes provisions
for common open space or recreational facilities, a statement describing the
provision that is to be made for the care and maintenance of such open space or
recreational facilities. If it is proposed that such open space be owned and/or
maintained by an entity other than a government authority, copies of the
proposed articles of incorporation and bylaws of such entity shall be
submitted.
         c.   Copies of any restrictive covenants that are to be recorded with
respect to property in the proposed planned unit development.
         d.   When the planned unit development is to be constructed in stages,
a schedule for the development of such stages shall be submitted stating the
approximate beginning and completion time for each stage. When the development
provides for common open space, the total area of common open space provided at
any stage of development shall, at a minimum, bear the same relationship to the
total open space to be provided in the entire development as the stages
completed or under development bear to the entire development.
         e.   A statement showing the relationship of the proposed planned unit
development to any adopted general plan of the City.
         f.   A statement showing why the proposed planned unit development is
compatible with other property in the neighborhood.
   D.   Review Procedure:
      1.   Action Of Zoning Administrator: Upon review of the formal
application, including the development site plan, the Zoning Administrator
shall determine if the application is complete. If the application is
determined not to be complete, the Zoning Administrator shall not transmit the
application to the Planning Commission, but shall notify the applicant of any
deficiencies and/or modifications necessary to perfect the application.
      2.   Public Hearing: Upon receipt of a properly completed application for
a planned unit development, the Planning Commission shall set a date for a
public hearing.
      3.   Notice: Notice of the public hearing shall be given in accordance
with current Minnesota State Statute Guidelines.
      4.   Action Of The Planning Commission: The Planning Commission hold a
public hear and shall transmit its recommendation to the City Council. The
Planning Commission shall either recommend the granting of the planned unit
development, granting the planned unit development subject to modifications, or
denying the planned unit development.
      5.   Action Of The City Council: After receipt of the Planning
Commission's recommendation, the City Council shall review the findings and
either deny the planned unit development, or grant the planned unit development
with or without modifications and conditions. (Ord. 296, 3-18-2024)
10-6-8: STANDARDS:
   A.   The Planning Commission shall and the City Council should only approve
a planned unit development that satisfies the intent of this chapter and/or
does not jeopardize the public health, safety, or welfare.
   B.   The development of the planned unit development shall conform to the
approved development plan; including all proposed covenants, easements,
conditions of approval, and other provisions relating to the bulk, location,
and density of permitted structures, accessory structures, parking, and other
public facilities.
   C.   All land shown on the approved development plan as common open space
must be conveyed to trustees provided in the indenture establishing the
association or similar organization for the maintenance of the planned unit
development.
   D.   No common open space may be put to any use not specified in the
approved development plan. (Ord. 296, 3-18-2024)
10-6-9: TIME LIMIT ON APPROVED PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
No planned unit development approval shall be valid for a period longer than
one (1) year unless a Building Permit is issued. However, upon written request
of the applicant, the one (1) year period may be extended by the Planning
Commission for such time as it shall be determined and for good cause shown,
without further hearing. (Ord. 296, 3-18-2024)
10-6-10: EFFECT OF APPROVAL OF A PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT:
The approval of a proposed planned unit development by the City Council shall
not authorize the development, construction, reconstruction, alteration or
moving of any building or structure, but shall merely authorize the
preparation, filing, and processing of applications for such permits or
approvals as may be required by the regulation of the City, including, but not
limited to, a subdivider's agreement as required in the Hawley City Code,
Zoning Permit. (Ord. 296, 3-18-2024)
10-6-11: REGULATIONS DURING AND FOLLOWING COMPLETION OF DEVELOPMENT:
Following approval of the planned unit development, the development site plan,
including any modifications thereof, shall constitute the use, parking,
loading, sign, bulk, space, and yard regulations applicable to the property,
and no use, building or development, other than home occupations and temporary
uses not allowed by the development site plan, shall be permitted within the
area of the planned unit development. (Ord. 296, 3-18-2024)
10-6-12: ADJUSTMENTS TO THE DEVELOPMENT SITE PLAN:
Adjustments to the development site plan shall be in accordance with the
requirement set forth below.
   A.   New Application Required: No alteration or amendment shall be made in
the construction, development, or use without a new application under the
provisions of this Section. However, minor alterations may be made subject to
written approval of the Zoning Administrator.
   B.   Minor Adjustments: During build-out of the planned unit development,
the Zoning Administrator may authorize minor adjustments to approved
development site plans when such adjustments appear necessary in light of
technical or engineering considerations. Such minor adjustments shall be
limited to the following elements:
      1.   Adjusting the distance as shown on the approved development site
plan between any one.
      2.   Structure or group of structures, and any other structure or group
of structures, or any vehicle circulation element or any boundary of the site.
      3.   Adjusting the location of any open space.
      4.   Adjusting any final grade (set by City Engineer).
      5.   Altering the types of landscaping elements and their arrangement
within the required landscaping buffer area.
      Such minor adjustments shall be consistent with the intent and purpose of
the chapter and development plans approved and shall be the minimum necessary
to overcome the particular difficulty and shall not be approved if such
adjustments would result in a violation of any standard or requirement of this
Chapter.
   C.   Major Adjustments: Any adjustments to the development site plan not
authorized as a minor adjustment shall be considered a major adjustment and
shall require a new application under the provisions of this Section. (Ord.
296, 3-18-2024)
10-6-13: FEE:
All applications for a planned unit development shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable filing fee of three hundred dollars ($300.00). (Ord. 296, 3-18-2024)
TITLE 11
WETLAND CONSERVATION; FLOOD PLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 1
WETLAND CONSERVATION ACT
SECTION:
11-1-1: Adoption Of Wetland Conservation Act
11-1-2: Scope
11-1-3: Procedures
11-1-4: High Priority Areas
11-1-5: Delegation Of Authority
11-1-1: ADOPTION OF WETLAND CONSERVATION ACT:
   A.    Purpose: This Chapter is adopted to implement the Wetland Conservation
Act of 1991, (Minnesota Laws 1991, chapter 354, as amended), and the
accompanying Rules of the Minnesota Board of Water and Soil Resources
(Minnesota Rules, chapter 8420, as amended).
   B.    Incorporation By Reference: This Chapter incorporates by reference the
Act and the Rules. Terms used in this Chapter which are defined in the Act or
the Rules have the meanings given therein. (Ord. 199, 6-22-1994)
11-1-2: SCOPE:
This Chapter regulates the draining and filling of wetlands and parts of
wetlands within the City, and is part of the official controls of the City.
Conflicts with other official controls must be resolved in favor of providing
the most wetland protection. (Ord. 199, 6-22-1994)
11-1-3: PROCEDURES:
   A.    Exemption And No-Loss Determinations: Exemption and no-loss
determinations under Minnesota Rules, parts 8420.0210 and 8420.0220 shall be
made by the City Administrator. The Administrator may seek the advice of the
technical evaluation panel on questions of wetland delineation and type. The
Administrator's decision is final unless appealed to the City Council within
thirty (30) days.
   B.    Sequencing And Replacement Plan Decisions: Sequencing and replacement
plan decisions under Minnesota Rules, parts 8420.0520 – .0550 shall be made
following the same procedures as for special use permits plus the additional
notice and time requirements of part 8420.0230. If the amount of wetland to be
drained or filled is less than one-tenth (1/10) of an acre, the sequencing
determination under Minnesota Rules, part 8420.0520 shall be made by the City
Administrator.
   C.    Monitoring: The City Administrator shall assure that the replacement
plan monitoring and enforcement requirements of Minnesota Rules, parts
8420.0600 - .0630 are fulfilled.
   D.    Wetland Banking: Wetlands may be restored or created within the City
for purposes of deposit in the wetland bank in accordance with Minnesota Rules,
parts 8420.0700 - .0760. The City is responsible for approving banking plans,
certifying deposits and monitoring of banked wetlands and enforcement under the
Rules.
   E.    Appeals: Decisions made under this Chapter may be appealed to the
Board of Water and Soil Resources under Minnesota Rules, part 8420.0250, after
administrative appeal rights under the official controls have been exhausted.
   F.    Variances: The City Council may issue variances from the official
controls of the City so long as the variances do not vary requirements of the
Act or the Rules.
   G.    Technical Evaluation Panel:
      1.    The City Council may appoint a person to serve on the technical
evaluation panel. The person must be a technical professional with expertise in
water resources management.
      2.    Decisions under this Chapter must not be made until after receiving
the determination of the technical evaluation panel regarding wetland public
values,location, size, and/or type if the decision maker, the landowner, or a
member of the technical panel asks for such determinations. This requirement
does not apply to wetlands for which such data is included in an approved
comprehensive wetland management plan per Minnesota Rules, part 8420.0240.
      3.    The City Council may seek and shall consider recommendations, if
any, made by the technical evaluation panel in making replacement decisions.
(Ord. 199, 6-22-1994)
11-1-4: HIGH PRIORITY AREAS:
Decisions regarding sequencing, replacement plans and banking shall
particularly favor preservation, restoration and creation of wetlands in high
priority areas as identified in water management plans pursuant to Minnesota
Rules, part 8420.0350. (Ord. 199, 6-22-1994)
11-1-5: DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY:
The City Council may, by joint powers agreement, delegate to the Soil and Water
Conservation District under Minnesota Statutes, sections 471.59 and 103C.331,
subdivision 19, the authority to administer all or any part of this Chapter.
(Ord. 199, 6-22-1994)
CHAPTER 2
FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
SECTION:
11-2-1: Statutory Authorization, Findings Of Fact And Purpose
11-2-2: General Provisions
11-2-3: Establishment Of Zoning Districts
11-2-4: Floodway District (FW)
11-2-5: Flood Fringe District (FF)
11-2-6: Subdivisions
11-2-7: Public Utilities, Railroads, Roads, And Bridges
11-2-8: Manufactured Homes And Manufactured Home Parks And Placement Of
Recreational Vehicles
11-2-9: Administration
11-2-10: Nonconforming Uses
11-2-11: Penalties For Violation
11-2-12: Amendments
11-2-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION, FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE:
   A.    Statutory Authorization: The legislature of the state of Minnesota
has, in Minnesota statutes chapters 103F and 462 delegated the responsibility
to local government units to adopt regulations designed to minimize flood
losses. Therefore, the city council of the city of Hawley, Minnesota, does
ordain as follows.
   B.    Findings Of Fact:
      1.    Subject To Periodic Inundation: The flood hazard areas of the city
of Hawley, Minnesota, are subject to periodic inundation which results in
potential loss of life, loss of property, health and safety hazards, disruption
of commerce and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures or
flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax base, all of which
adversely affect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
      2.    Methods Used To Analyze Flood Hazards: This chapter is based upon a
reasonable method of analyzing flood hazards which is consistent with the
standards established by the Minnesota department of natural resources.
      3.    National Flood Insurance Program Compliance: This chapter is
adopted to comply with the rules and regulations of the national flood
insurance program codified as 44 code of federal regulations parts 59 through
78, as amended, so as to maintain the community's eligibility in the national
flood insurance program.
   C.    Statement Of Purpose: It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare and to minimize those losses
described in subsection B1 of this section by provisions contained herein.
(Ord. 256, 3-26-2012)
11-2-2: GENERAL PROVISIONS:
   A.    Lands To Which Chapter Applies: This chapter shall apply to all lands
within the jurisdiction of the city of Hawley shown on the official zoning map
and/or the attachments thereto as being located within the boundaries of the
floodway and flood fringe districts.
   B.    Establishment Of Official Zoning Map: The official zoning map together
with all materials attached thereto is hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this chapter. The attached material shall include the flood
insurance study for Clay County, Minnesota, and incorporated areas and flood
insurance rate map panels therein numbered 27027C0414E, 27027C0418E,
27027C0552E and 27027C0556E, all dated April 17, 2012, and prepared by the
federal emergency management agency. The official zoning map shall be on file
in the office of the Hawley clerk-treasurer.
   C.    Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation: The regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be an elevation no lower than one foot (1') above the elevation
of the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.
   D.    Interpretation:
      1.    In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
      2.    The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined by
scaling distances on the official zoning map. Where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the district as shown on the
official zoning map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict
between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions and there is a formal
appeal of the decision of the zoning administrator, the board of adjustment
shall make the necessary interpretation. All decisions will be based on
elevations on the regional (100-year) flood profile, the ground elevations that
existed on the site at the time the community adopted its initial floodplain
ordinance or on the date of the first national flood insurance program map
showing the area within the 100-year floodplain if earlier (1981), and other
available technical data. Persons contesting the location of the district
boundaries shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the
board of adjustment and to submit technical evidence.
   E.    Abrogation And Greater Restrictions: It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
deed restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions,
the provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   F.    Warning And Disclaimer Of Liability: This chapter does not imply that
areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of the city of Hawley or any officer or employee
thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   G.    Severability: If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   H.    Definitions: Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used
in this chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the same meaning as
they have in common usage and so as to give this chapter its most reasonable
application.
ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE: A use or structure on the same lot with, and of a
nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
BASEMENT: Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor or
base subgrade (below ground level) on all four (4) sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
CONDITIONAL USE: A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed but only after an in depth review
procedure and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the
official zoning controls or building codes and upon a finding that:
      1.    Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist.
      2.    The structure and/or land use conform to the comprehensive land use
plan if one exists and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT: A method of determining the location of floodway
boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are capable of
conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
FLOOD: A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in the stage of
a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
FLOOD FREQUENCY: The frequency for which it is expected that a specific flood
stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
FLOOD FRINGE: That portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway. Flood
fringe is synonymous with the term "floodway fringe" used in the flood
insurance study for Clay County, Minnesota, and incorporated areas.
FLOODPLAIN: The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
FLOODPROOFING: A combination of structural provisions, changes, or adjustments
to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the reduction
or elimination of flood damages.
FLOODWAY: The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
LOWEST FLOOR: The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building's lowest floor.
MANUFACTURED HOME: A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
"manufactured home" does not include the term "recreational vehicle".
OBSTRUCTION: Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across, or projecting
into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory floodplain which may impede,
retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by
catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE: All uses or structures that are not accessory uses
or structures.
REACH: A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by a natural or manmade obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two (2) consecutive bridge
crossings would most typically constitute a reach.
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE: A vehicle that is built on a single chassis, is four
hundred (400) square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection, is designed to be self- propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck, and is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but
as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal
use. For the purposes of this chapter, the term recreational vehicle shall be
synonymous with the term travel trailer/travel vehicle.
REGIONAL FLOOD: A flood which is representative of large floods known to have
occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what can be
expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. Regional flood is synonymous with the term "base flood"
used in a flood insurance study.
REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION: The regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be an elevation no lower than one foot (1') above the elevation
of the regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.
STRUCTURE: Anything constructed or erected on the ground or attached to the
ground or on site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, recreational
vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in subsection 11-2-8C1 of
this chapter and other similar items.
SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE: Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed fifty percent (50%) of the market value of the structure before the
damage occurred.
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT: Within any consecutive three hundred sixty five (365)
day period, any reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance
and repair), repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the
market value of the structure before the "start of construction" of the
improvement. This term includes structures that have incurred "substantial
damage", regardless of the actual repair work performed. The term does not,
however, include either:
      1.    Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing
violations of state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications
which have been identified by the local code enforcement official and which are
the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions.
      2.    Any alteration of a "historic structure", provided that the
alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a
"historic structure". For the purpose of this chapter, "historic structure"
shall be as defined in 44 code of federal regulations, part 59.1.
   VARIANCE: A modification of a specific permitted development standard
required in an official control including this chapter to allow an alternative
development standard not stated as acceptable in the official control, but only
as applied to a particular property for the purpose of alleviating a hardship,
practical difficulty or unique circumstance as defined and elaborated upon in a
community's respective planning and zoning enabling legislation.
   I.    Annexations: The flood insurance rate map panels adopted by reference
in subsection B of this section may include floodplain areas that lie outside
of the corporate boundaries of the city of Hawley at the time of adoption
hereof. If any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the city of
Hawley after the date of adoption hereof, the newly annexed floodplain lands
shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of
annexation into the city of Hawley. (Ord. 256, 3-26-2012)
11-2-3: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS:
   A.    Districts:
      1.    Floodway District: The floodway district shall include those areas
designated as floodway on the flood insurance rate map adopted in subsection
11-2-2B of this chapter.
      2.    Flood Fringe District: The flood fringe district shall include
those areas designated as floodway fringe. The flood fringe district shall
include those areas shown on the flood insurance rate map as adopted in
subsection 11-2-2B of this chapter as being within zones AE being located
outside of the floodway.
   B.    Compliance: No new structure or land shall hereafter be used and no
structure shall be constructed, located, extended, converted, or structurally
altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and other
applicable regulations which apply to uses within the jurisdiction of this
chapter. Within the floodway and flood fringe districts, all uses not listed as
permitted uses or conditional uses in sections
11-2-4 and
11-2-5 of this chapter, respectively, shall be prohibited. In addition, a
caution is provided here that:
      1.    New manufactured homes, replacement manufactured homes and certain
travel trailers and travel vehicles are subject to the general provisions of
this chapter and specifically section
11-2-8 of this chapter.
      2.    Modifications, additions, structural alterations, normal
maintenance and repair, or repair after damage to existing nonconforming
structures and nonconforming uses of structures or land are regulated by the
general provisions of this chapter and specifically section
11-2-10 of this chapter.
      3.    As built elevations for elevated or floodproofed structures must be
certified by ground surveys and floodproofing techniques must be designed and
certified by a registered professional engineer or architect as specified in
the general provisions of this chapter and specifically as stated in section
11-2-9 of this chapter. (Ord. 256, 3-26-2012)
11-2-4: FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW):
   A.    Permitted Uses:
      1.    General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming, and wild crop harvesting.
      2.    Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas, and airport
landing strips.
      3.    Private and public golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges,
archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks,
wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves,
target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, and single or
multiple purpose recreational trails.
      4.    Residential lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play areas.
   B.    Standards For Floodway Permitted Uses:
      1.    The use shall have a low flood damage potential.
      2.    The use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning district if
one exists.
      3.    The use shall not obstruct flood flows or increase flood elevations
and shall not involve structures, fill, obstructions, excavations or storage of
materials or equipment.
   C.    Conditional Uses:
      1.    Structures accessory to the uses listed in subsection A of this
section and the uses listed in subsections C2 through C8 of this section.
      2.    Extraction and storage of sand, gravel, and other materials.
      3.    Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves, and water control
structures.
      4.    Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines, and
pipelines.
      5.    Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials.
      6.    Placement of fill or construction of fences.
      7.    Recreational vehicles either on individual lots of record or in
existing or new subdivisions or commercial or condominium type campgrounds,
subject to the exemptions and provisions of subsection 11-2-8C of this chapter.
      8.    Structural works for flood control such as levees, dikes and
floodwalls constructed to any height where the intent is to protect individual
structures and levees or dikes where the intent is to protect agricultural
crops for a frequency flood event equal to or less than the 10-year frequency
flood event.
   D.    Standards For Floodway Conditional Uses:
      1.    All Uses: No structure (temporary or permanent), fill (including
fill for roads and levees), deposit, obstruction, storage of materials or
equipment, or other uses may be allowed as a conditional use that will cause
any increase in the stage of the 100-year or regional flood or cause an
increase in flood damages in the reach or reaches affected.
      2.    All Floodway Conditional Uses: All floodway conditional uses shall
be subject to the procedures and standards contained in subsection 11-2-9D of
this chapter.
      3.    Conditional Use: The conditional use shall be permissible in the
underlying zoning district if one exists.
      4.    Fill:
         a.    Fill, dredge spoil, and all other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain shall be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, riprap or other acceptable method.
         b.    Dredge spoil sites and sand and gravel operations shall not be
allowed in the floodway unless a long term site development plan is submitted
which includes an erosion/sedimentation prevention element to the plan.
         c.    As an alternative, and consistent with subsection D4b of this
section, dredge spoil disposal and sand and gravel operations may allow
temporary, on site storage of fill or other materials which would have caused
an increase to the stage of the 100-year or regional flood but only after the
governing body has received an appropriate plan which assures the removal of
the materials from the floodway based upon the flood warning time available.
The conditional use permit must be title registered with the property in the
office of the county recorder.
      5.    Accessory Structures:
         a.    Accessory structures shall not be designed for human habitation.
         b.    Accessory structures, if permitted, shall be constructed and
placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow
of floodwaters:
            (1)    Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow; and
            (2)    So far as practicable, structures shall be placed
approximately on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
         c.    Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally
dry floodproofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 floodproofing
classifications in the state building code. As an alternative, an accessory
structure may be floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 floodproofing classification
in the state building code provided the accessory structure constitutes a
minimal investment, does not exceed five hundred (500) square feet in size at
its largest projection, and for a detached garage, the detached garage must be
used solely for parking of vehicles and limited storage. All floodproofed
accessory structures must meet the following additional standards:
            (1)    The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed
to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls;
            (2)    Any mechanical and utility equipment in a structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or properly
floodproofed; and
            (3)    To allow for the equalization of hydrostatic pressure, there
must be a minimum of two (2) "automatic" openings in the outside walls of the
structure having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every
square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding. There must be openings on at
least two (2) sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings must be no
higher than one foot (1') above the lowest adjacent grade to the structure.
Using human intervention to open a garage door prior to flooding will not
satisfy this requirement for automatic openings.
      6.    Storage Of Materials And Equipment:
         a.    The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
         b.    Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
      7.    Structural Works For Flood Control: Structural works for flood
control that will change the course, current or cross section of protected
wetlands or public waters shall be subject to the provisions of Minnesota
statute, chapter 103G. Community wide structural works for flood control
intended to remove areas from the regulatory floodplain shall not be allowed in
the floodway.
      8.    Levee, Dike Or Floodwall Constructed In Floodway: A levee, dike or
floodwall constructed in the floodway shall not cause an increase to the 100-
year or regional flood and the technical analysis must assume equal conveyance
or storage loss on both sides of a stream. (Ord. 256, 3-26-2012)
11-2-5: FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF):
   A.    Permitted Uses: Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or
structures listed as permitted uses in the underlying zoning use district(s).
If no preexisting, underlying zoning use districts exist, then any residential
or nonresidential structure or use of a structure or land shall be a permitted
use in the flood fringe district provided such use does not constitute a public
nuisance. All permitted uses shall comply with subsections B, "Standards For
Flood Fringe Permitted Uses", and E, "Standards For All Flood Fringe Uses", of
this section.
   B.    Standards For Flood Fringe Permitted Uses:
      1.    All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor including basement floor is at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures shall be no lower than one foot (1') below the regulatory flood
protection elevation and the fill shall extend at such elevation at least
fifteen feet (15') beyond the outside limits of the structure erected thereon.
      2.    As an alternative to elevation on fill, accessory structures that
constitute a minimal investment and that do not exceed five hundred (500)
square feet at its largest projection may be internally floodproofed in
accordance with subsection 11-2-4D5c of this section.
      3.    The storage of any materials or equipment shall be elevated on fill
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      4.    The provisions of subsection E of this section shall apply.
   C.    Conditional Uses: Any structure that is not elevated on fill or
floodproofed in accordance with subsections B1 and B2 of this section and/or
any use of land that does not comply with the standards in subsection B3 of
this section shall only be allowable as a conditional use. An application for a
conditional use shall be subject to the standards and criteria and evaluation
procedures specified in subsections D and E of this section and subsection 11-
2-9D of this chapter.
   D.    Standards For Flood Fringe Conditional Uses:
      1.    Alternative Elevation Methods: Alternative elevation methods other
than the use of fill may be utilized to elevate a structure's lowest floor
above the regulatory flood protection elevation. These alternative methods may
include the use of stilts, pilings, parallel walls, etc., or above grade,
enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages. The base or floor of
an enclosed area shall be considered above grade and not a structure's basement
or lowest floor if: a) the enclosed area is above grade on at least one side of
the structure; b) it is designed to internally flood and is constructed with
flood resistant materials; and c) it is used solely for parking of vehicles,
building access or storage. The above noted alternative elevation methods are
subject to the following additional standards:
         a.    Design And Certification: The structure's design and as built
condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
as being in compliance with the general design standards of the state building
code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and
air conditioning equipment and other service facilities must be at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation or be designed to prevent floodwater from
entering or accumulating within these components during times of flooding.
         b.    Specific Standards For Above Grade, Enclosed Areas: Above grade,
fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages must be
designed to internally flood and the design plans must stipulate:
            (1)    A minimum area of openings in the walls where internal
flooding is to be used as a floodproofing technique. There shall be a minimum
of two (2) openings on at least two (2) sides of the structure and the bottom
of all openings shall be no higher than one foot (1') above grade. The
automatic openings shall have a minimum net area of not less than one square
inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding unless a
registered professional engineer or architect certifies that a smaller net area
would suffice. The automatic openings may be equipped with screens, louvers,
valves, or other coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic
entry and exit of floodwaters without any form of human intervention; and
            (2)    That the enclosed area will be designed of flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the state
building code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles
or storage.
      2.    Basements: Basements, as defined by subsection 11-2-2H of this
chapter, shall be subject to the following:
         a.    Residential basement construction shall not be allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
         b.    Nonresidential basements may be allowed below the regulatory
flood protection elevation provided the basement is structurally dry
floodproofed in accordance with subsection D3 of this section.
      3.    All Areas Below Regulatory Flood Protection Elevation: All areas of
nonresidential structures including basements to be placed below the regulatory
flood protection elevation shall be floodproofed in accordance with the
structurally dry floodproofing classifications in the state building code.
Structurally dry floodproofing must meet the FP-1 or FP-2 floodproofing
classification in the state building code and this shall require making the
structure watertight with the walls substantially impermeable to the passage of
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting
hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of buoyancy. Structures
floodproofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 classification shall not be permitted.
      4.    Storage Of Materials And Equipment:
         a.    The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive, or potentially injurious to human, animal, or
plant life is prohibited.
         b.    Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
      5.    Other Provisions: The provisions of subsection E of this section
shall also apply.
   E.    Standards For All Flood Fringe Uses:
      1.    Commercial Uses: Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad
tracks, and parking lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation. However, a permit for such facilities to be used by the
employees or the general public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood
warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be
inundated to a depth and velocity such that when multiplying the depth (in
feet) times velocity (in feet per second) the product number exceeds four (4)
upon occurrence of the regional flood.
      2.    Manufacturing And Industrial Uses: Measures shall be taken to
minimize interference with normal plant operations especially along streams
having protracted flood durations. Certain accessory land uses such as yards
and parking lots may be at lower elevations subject to requirements set out in
subsection E1 of this section. In considering permit applications, due
consideration shall be given to needs of an industry whose business requires
that it be located in floodplain areas.
      3.    Fill: Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be
properly protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable
method. The federal emergency management agency (FEMA) has established criteria
for removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation - FEMA's
requirements incorporate specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
      4.    Hydraulic Capacity: Floodplain developments shall not adversely
affect the hydraulic capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any
tributary watercourse or drainage system where a floodway or other encroachment
limit has not been specified on the official zoning map.
      5.    Recreational Vehicles: Standards for recreational vehicles are
contained in subsection 11-2-8C of this chapter.
      6.    Anchoring: All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an
adequately anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and
lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited
to, use of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces. (Ord. 256, 3-26-2012)
11-2-6: SUBDIVISIONS:
   A.    Review Criteria: No land shall be subdivided which is unsuitable for
the reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. All lots within the floodplain districts shall be able to contain a
building site outside of the floodway district at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. All subdivisions shall have water and sewage treatment
facilities that comply with the provisions of this chapter and have road access
both to the subdivision and to the individual building sites no lower than two
feet (2') below the regulatory flood protection elevation. For all subdivisions
in the floodplain, the floodway and flood fringe district boundaries, the
regulatory flood protection elevation and the required elevation of all access
roads shall be clearly labeled on all required subdivision drawings and
platting documents.
   B.    Removal Of Special Flood Hazard Area Designation: The federal
emergency management agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the
special flood hazard area designation for certain structures properly elevated
on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA's requirements incorporate
specific fill compaction and side slope protection standards for multi-
structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should be investigated
prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of special flood hazard
area designation will be requested. (Ord. 256, 3-26-2012)
11-2-7: PUBLIC UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS, AND BRIDGES:
   A.    Public Utilities: All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
shall be floodproofed in accordance with the state building code or elevated to
above the regulatory flood protection elevation.
   B.    Public Transportation Facilities: Railroad tracks, roads, and bridges
to be located within the floodplain shall comply with sections
11-2-4 and
11-2-5 of this chapter. Elevation to the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be provided where failure or interruption of these transportation
facilities would result in danger to the public health or safety or where such
facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or
auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where
failure or interruption of transportation services would not endanger the
public health or safety.
   C.    On Site Sewage Treatment And Water Supply Systems: Where public
utilities are not provided:
      1.    On site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems; and
      2.    New or replacement on site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into floodwaters and they shall not be subject
to impairment or contamination during times of flooding. Any sewage treatment
system designed in accordance with the state's current statewide standards for
on site sewage treatment systems shall be determined to be in compliance with
this section. (Ord. 256, 3-26-2012)
11-2-8: MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS AND PLACEMENT OF
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES:
   A.    New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing manufactured
home parks shall be subject to the provisions placed on subdivisions by section
11-2-6 of this chapter.
   B.    The placement of new or replacement manufactured homes in existing
manufactured home parks or on individual lots of record that are located in
floodplain districts will be treated as a new structure and may be placed only
if elevated in compliance with section
11-2-5 of this chapter.
      1.    All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over the top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
   C.    Recreational vehicles that do not meet the exemption criteria
specified in subsection C1 of this section shall be subject to the provisions
of this chapter and as specifically spelled out in subsections C3 and C4 of
this section.
      1.    Exemption: Recreational vehicles are exempt from the provisions of
this chapter if they are placed in any of the areas listed in subsection C2 of
this section and further they meet the following criteria:
         a.    Have current licenses required for highway use.
         b.    Are highway ready meaning on wheels or the internal jacking
system, are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks and the
recreational vehicle has no permanent structural type additions attached to it.
         c.    The recreational vehicle and associated use must be permissible
in any preexisting, underlying zoning use district.
      2.    Areas Exempted For Placement Of Recreational Vehicles:
         a.    Individual lots or parcels of record.
         b.    Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds.
         c.    Existing condominium type associations.
      3.    Recreational Vehicles Losing Exemption: Recreational vehicles
exempted in subsection C1 of this section lose this exemption when development
occurs on the parcel exceeding five hundred dollars ($500.00) for a structural
addition to the recreational vehicle or exceeding five hundred dollars
($500.00) for an accessory structure such as a garage or storage building. The
recreational vehicle and all additions and accessory structures will then be
treated as a new structure and shall be subject to the elevation/floodproofing
requirements and the use of land restrictions specified in sections
11-2-4 and
11-2-5 of this chapter. There shall be no development or improvement on the
parcel or attachment to the recreational vehicle that hinders the removal of
the recreational vehicle to a flood free location should flooding occur.
      4.    New Recreational Vehicle Parks: New commercial recreational vehicle
parks or campgrounds and new residential type subdivisions and condominium
associations and the expansion of any existing similar use exceeding five (5)
units or dwelling sites shall be subject to the following:
         a.    Any new or replacement recreational vehicle will be allowed in
the floodway or flood fringe districts provided said recreational vehicle and
its contents are placed on fill above the regulatory flood protection elevation
and proper elevated road access to the site exists. No fill placed in the
floodway to meet the requirements of this section shall increase flood stages
of the 100-year or regional flood.
         b.    All new or replacement recreational vehicles not meeting the
criteria of subsection C4a of this section may, as an alternative, be allowed
as a conditional use if in accordance with the following provisions and the
provisions of subsection 11-2-9D of this chapter. The applicant must submit an
emergency plan for the safe evacuation of all vehicles and people during the
100-year flood. Said plan shall be prepared by a registered engineer or other
qualified individual, shall demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist
to carry out the evacuation, and shall demonstrate the provisions of subsection
C1a and C1b of this section will be met. All attendant sewage and water
facilities for new or replacement recreational vehicles must be protected or
constructed so as to not be impaired or contaminated during times of flooding
in accordance with subsection 11-2-7C of this chapter. (Ord. 256, 3-26-2012)
11-2-9: ADMINISTRATION:
   A.    Zoning Administrator: A zoning administrator or other official
designated by the governing body shall administer and enforce this chapter. If
the zoning administrator finds a violation of the provisions of this chapter
the zoning administrator shall notify the person responsible for such violation
in accordance with the procedures stated in section
11-2-11 of this chapter.
   B.    Permit Requirements:
      1.    Permit Required: A permit issued by the zoning administrator in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter shall be secured prior to the
erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance
and repair), or alteration of any building, structure, or portion thereof;
prior to the use or change of use of a building, structure, or land; prior to
the construction of a dam, fence, or on site septic system; prior to the change
or extension of a nonconforming use; prior to the repair of a structure that
has been damaged by flood, fire, tornado, or any other source; and prior to the
placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the storage of materials or
equipment within the floodplain.
      2.    Application For Permit: Application for a permit shall be made in
duplicate to the zoning administrator on forms furnished by the zoning
administrator and shall include the following where applicable: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions, and
elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill, or storage of
materials; and the location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel.
      3.    State And Federal Permits: Prior to granting a permit or processing
an application for a conditional use permit or variance, the zoning
administrator shall determine that the applicant has obtained all necessary
state and federal permits.
      4.    Certificate Of Zoning Compliance For A New, Altered, Or
Nonconforming Use: It shall be unlawful to use, occupy, or permit the use or
occupancy of any building or premises or part thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted, altered, or enlarged in its use or structure until
a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued by the zoning
administrator stating that the use of the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
      5.    Construction And Use To Be As Provided On Applications, Plans,
Permits, Variances And Certificates Of Zoning Compliance: Permits, conditional
use permits, or certificates of zoning compliance issued on the basis of
approved plans and applications authorize only the use, arrangement, and
construction set forth in such approved plans and applications, and no other
use, arrangement, or construction. Any use, arrangement, or construction at
variance with that authorized shall be deemed a violation of this chapter, and
punishable as provided by section
11-2-11 of this chapter.
      6.    Certification: The applicant shall be required to submit
certification by a registered professional engineer, registered architect, or
registered land surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Floodproofing
measures shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or registered
architect.
      7.    Record Of First Floor Elevation: The zoning administrator shall
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
floodplain. The zoning administrator shall also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures or alterations and additions to structures are
floodproofed.
      8.    Notifications For Watercourse Alterations: The zoning administrator
shall notify, in riverine situations, adjacent communities and the commissioner
of the department of natural resources prior to the community authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a watercourse. If the applicant has applied for a
permit to work in the beds of public waters pursuant to Minnesota statute,
chapter 103G, this shall suffice as adequate notice to the commissioner of
natural resources. A copy of said notification shall also be submitted to the
Chicago regional office of the federal emergency management agency (FEMA).
      9.    Notification To FEMA When Physical Changes Increase Or Decrease The
100-Year Flood Elevation: As soon as is practicable, but not later than six (6)
months after the date such supporting information becomes available, the zoning
administrator shall notify the Chicago regional office of FEMA of the changes
by submitting a copy of said technical or scientific data.
   C.    Board Of Adjustment:
      1.    Rules: The board of adjustment shall adopt rules for the conduct of
business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on such boards by state
law.
      2.    Administrative Review: The board of adjustment shall hear and
decide appeals where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement,
decision, or determination made by an administrative official in the
enforcement or administration of this chapter.
      3.    Variances: The board of adjustment may authorize upon appeal in
specific cases such relief or variance from the terms of this chapter as will
not be contrary to the public interest and only for those circumstances such as
hardship, practical difficulties or circumstances unique to the property under
consideration, as provided for in the respective enabling legislation for
planning and zoning for cities or counties as appropriate. In the granting of
such variance, the board of adjustment shall clearly identify in writing the
specific conditions that existed consistent with the criteria specified in this
chapter, any other zoning regulations in the community, and in the respective
enabling legislation that justified the granting of the variance. No variance
shall have the effect of allowing in any district uses prohibited in that
district, permit a lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory flood
protection elevation for the particular area, or permit standards lower than
those required by state law. The following additional variance criteria of the
federal emergency management agency must be satisfied:
         a.    Variances shall not be issued by a community within any
designated regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base
flood discharge would result.
         b.    Variances shall only be issued by a community upon: 1) a showing
of good and sufficient cause, 2) a determination that failure to grant the
variance would result in exceptional hardship to the applicant, and 3) a
determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased
flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public
expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, or
conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
         c.    Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      4.    Hearings: Upon filing with the board of adjustment of an appeal
from a decision of the zoning administrator, or an application for a variance,
the board of adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing and give due
notice to the parties in interest as specified by law. The board of adjustment
shall submit by mail to the commissioner of natural resources a copy of the
application for proposed variances sufficiently in advance so that the
commissioner will receive at least ten (10) days' notice of the hearing.
      5.    Decisions: The board of adjustment shall arrive at a decision on
such appeal or variance within thirty (30) days. In passing upon an appeal, the
board of adjustment may, so long as such action is in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination of the zoning administrator or
other public official. It shall make its decision in writing setting forth the
findings of fact and the reasons for its decisions. In granting a variance the
board of adjustment may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards such as
those specified in subsection D6 of this section, which are in conformity with
the purposes of this chapter. Violations of such conditions and safeguards,
when made a part of the terms under which the variance is granted, shall be
deemed a violation of this chapter punishable under section
11-2-11 of this chapter. A copy of all decisions granting variances shall be
forwarded by mail to the commissioner of natural resources within ten (10) days
of such action.
      6.    Appeals: Appeals from any decision of the board of adjustment may
be made, and as specified in this community's official controls and also by
Minnesota statutes.
      7.    Flood Insurance Notice And Recordkeeping: The zoning administrator
shall notify the applicant for a variance that: a) the issuance of a variance
to construct a structure below the base flood level will result in increased
premium rates for flood insurance up to amounts as high as twenty five dollars
($25.00) for one hundred dollars ($100.00) of insurance coverage and b) such
construction below the 100-year or regional flood level increases risks to life
and property. Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all
variance actions. A community shall maintain a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance, and report such variances issued in
its annual or biennial report submitted to the administrator of the national
flood insurance program.
   D.    Conditional Uses: The city of Hawley planning commission shall hear
and make recommendations to the city council on all conditional use
applications. The city council shall decide applications for conditional uses
permissible under this chapter. Applications shall be submitted to the zoning
administrator who shall forward the application to city council for
consideration.
      1.    Hearings: Upon filing with the zoning administrator an application
for a conditional use permit, the zoning administrator shall submit by mail to
the commissioner of natural resources a copy of the application for proposed
conditional use sufficiently in advance so that the commissioner will receive
at least ten (10) days' notice of the hearing.
      2.    Decisions: The city of Hawley planning commission shall arrive at a
recommendation for a conditional use within thirty (30) days. In recommending a
grant of a conditional use permit, the planning commission shall prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards, in addition to those specified in
subsection D6 of this section, which are in conformity with the purposes of
this chapter. Violations of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of
the terms under which the conditional use permit is granted, shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter punishable under section
11-2-11 of this chapter. A copy of all decisions granting conditional use
permits shall be forwarded by mail to the commissioner of natural resources
within ten (10) days of such action.
      3.    Procedures: Procedures to be followed by the planning commission in
passing on conditional use permit applications within all floodplain districts:
         a.    Require the applicant to furnish such of the following
information and additional information as deemed necessary by the planning
commission for determining the suitability of the particular site for the
proposed use:
            (1)    Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location, dimensions, and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed
structures, fill, storage of materials, floodproofing measures, and the
relationship of the above to the location of the stream channel; and
            (2)    Specifications for building construction and materials,
floodproofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
         b.    Transmit one copy of the information described in subsection D3a
of this section to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance, where necessary, in evaluating the proposed project in
relation to flood heights and velocities, the seriousness of flood damage to
the use, the adequacy of the plans for protection, and other technical matters.
         c.    Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer
or expert, the planning commission shall determine the specific flood hazard at
the site and evaluate the suitability of the proposed use in relation to the
flood hazard.
      4.    Factors Upon Which The Decision Of The Planning Commission Shall Be
Based: In passing upon conditional use applications, the planning commission
shall consider all relevant factors specified in other sections of this
chapter, and:
         a.    The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
or velocities caused by encroachments.
         b.    The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others or they may block bridges, culverts or other
hydraulic structures.
         c.    The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability
of these systems to prevent disease, contamination, and unsanitary conditions.
         d.    The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
         e.    The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community.
         f.    The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location.
         g.    The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use.
         h.    The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
         i.    The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area.
         j.    The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
         k.    The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and
sediment transport of the floodwaters expected at the site.
         l.    Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
chapter.
      5.    Time For Acting On Application: The city council shall act on an
application in the manner described above within thirty (30) days from
receiving the recommendation from the planning commission.
      6.    Conditions Attached To Conditional Use Permits: Upon consideration
of the factors listed above and the purpose of this chapter, the city council
shall attach such conditions to the granting of conditional use permits as it
deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. Such conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
         a.    Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities.
         b.    Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation.
         c.    Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
         d.    Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees, and other protective measures.
         e.    Floodproofing measures, in accordance with the state building
code and this chapter. The applicant shall submit a plan or document certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing
measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and
associated flood factors for the particular area. (Ord. 256, 3-26-2012)
11-2-10: NONCONFORMING USES:
   A.    A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions. Historic structures, as defined in subsection 11-2-2H of this
chapter, shall be subject to the provisions of subsections A1 through A4 of
this section.
      1.    No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged, or altered in a
way that increases its nonconformity.
      2.    Any structural alteration or addition to a nonconforming structure
or nonconforming use which would result in increasing the flood damage
potential of that structure or use shall be protected to the regulatory flood
protection elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or
floodproofing techniques (i.e., FP-1 through FP-4 floodproofing
classifications) allowable in the state building code, except as further
restricted in subsection A5 of this section.
      3.    If any nonconforming use is discontinued for twelve (12)
consecutive months, any future use of the building premises shall conform to
this chapter. The assessor shall notify the zoning administrator in writing of
instances of nonconforming uses that have been discontinued for a period of
twelve (12) months.
      4.    If any nonconforming use or structure is substantially damaged, as
defined in subsection 11-2-2H of this chapter, it shall not be reconstructed
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter. The applicable
provisions for establishing new uses or new structures in sections
11-2-4 and
11-2-5 of this chapter will apply depending upon whether the use or structure
is in the floodway or flood fringe district, respectively.
      5.    If a "substantial improvement" occurs, as defined in subsection 11-
2-2H of this chapter, from any combination of a building addition to the
outside dimensions of the existing building or a rehabilitation,
reconstruction, alteration, or other improvement to the inside dimensions of an
existing nonconforming building, then the building addition and the existing
nonconforming building must meet the requirements of section
11-2-4 or
11-2-5 of this chapter for new structures, depending upon whether the structure
is in the floodway or flood fringe district, respectively. (Ord. 256, 3-26-
2012)
11-2-11: PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION:
   A.    Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connection with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law.
   B.    Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city of Hawley from taking
such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
Such actions may include, but are not limited to:
      1.    In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the zoning
administrator and local government may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after the fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the national flood insurance program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The community must act in good faith to
enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to the
extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the national flood
insurance program.
      2.    When an ordinance violation is either discovered by or brought to
the attention of the zoning administrator, the zoning administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information will be submitted to the appropriate department of natural
resources' and federal emergency management agency regional office along with
the community's plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible.
      3.    The zoning administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the zoning administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the community. If the construction or development is
already completed, then the zoning administrator may either: a) issue an order
identifying the corrective actions that must be made within a specified time
period to bring the use or structure into compliance with the official
controls; or b) notify the responsible party to apply for an after the fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed
thirty (30) days.
      4.    If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
zoning administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter and shall
be prosecuted accordingly. The zoning administrator shall also upon the lapse
of the specified response period notify the landowner to restore the land to
the condition which existed prior to the violation of this chapter. (Ord. 256,
3-26-2012)
11-2-12: AMENDMENTS:
The floodplain designation on the official zoning map shall not be removed from
floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error or
that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory flood
protection elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special
exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the commissioner of natural
resources if he determines that, through other measures, lands are adequately
protected for the intended use.
All amendments to this chapter, including amendments to the official zoning
map, must be submitted to and approved by the commissioner of natural resources
prior to adoption. Changes in the official zoning map must meet the federal
emergency management agency's (FEMA) technical conditions and criteria and must
receive prior FEMA approval before adoption. The commissioner of natural
resources must be given ten (10) days' written notice of all hearings to
consider an amendment to this chapter and said notice shall include a draft of
the ordinance amendment or technical study under consideration. (Ord. 256, 3-
26-2012)
TITLE 12
SUBDIVISIONS
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION:
12-1-1: Title
12-1-2: Purpose
12-1-3: Policy
12-1-4: Jurisdiction
12-1-5: Interpretation
12-1-6: Existing Law
12-1-7: Separability
12-1-8: Repeal Of Conflicting Ordinances
12-1-9: Relation To The Comprehensive Plan
12-1-10: Authority
12-1-11: Public Purpose
12-1-1: TITLE:
These regulations shall officially be known, cited, and referenced to as the
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS OF THE CITY OF HAWLEY, MINNESOTA. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-1-2: PURPOSE:
These regulations are adopted for the following purposes:
   A.    To protect and provide for the public health, safety, and general
welfare of the city.
   B.    To guide the future growth and development of the city in accordance
with the comprehensive plan.
   C.    To encourage the orderly and beneficial development of the city
through appropriate growth management techniques assuring the timing and
sequencing of development, promotion of infill development in existing
neighborhoods and nonresidential areas with adequate public facilities, to
assure proper urban form and open space separation of urban areas, to protect
environmentally critical areas, and areas premature for development.
   D.    To guide public and private policy and action in order to provide
adequate and efficient transportation, water, sewerage, schools, parks,
playgrounds, recreation, and other public requirements and facilities.
   E.    To ensure that public facilities and services are available concurrent
with development and will have sufficient capacity to serve the proposed
development and that the community will be required to bear no more than its
fair share of the cost of providing the facilities and services. The developer
may be required to pay fees, furnish land, or establish mitigation measures to
ensure that the development provides its fair share of capital facilities needs
generated by the development.
   F.    To establish reasonable standards of design and procedures for
subdivisions and resubdivisions in order to further the orderly layout and use
of land, and to ensure proper legal descriptions and monumenting of subdivided
land.
   G.    To provide for open spaces through the most efficient design and
layout of the land.
   H.    To ensure that land is only subdivided when subdivision is necessary
to provide for uses of land for which market demand exists and which are in the
public interest.
   I.    To remedy the problems associated with inappropriately subdivided
lands, including premature subdivision, excess subdivision, partial or
incomplete subdivision, scattered and low grade subdivision.
   J.    To secure equitable action regarding all subdivision plans by
providing uniform procedures, policies, and standards. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-1-3: POLICY:
   A.    It is the policy of the city to consider the subdivision of land and
the subsequent development of the subdivided land as subject to the control of
the city pursuant to the comprehensive plan of the city for the orderly,
planned, efficient, and economical development of the city.
   B.    Land to be subdivided shall be of such character that it can be used
safely for building purposes without danger to health or peril from fire,
flood, or other menace, and land shall not be subdivided until adequate public
facilities and improvements exist and proper provision has been made for
drainage, water, sewerage, and capital improvements such as schools, parks,
recreational facilities, transportation facilities and improvements.
   C.    The existing and proposed public improvements shall conform to and be
properly related to the proposals shown in the comprehensive plan, and the
capital budget and program of the city, and it is intended that these
regulations shall supplement and facilitate the enforcement of the provisions
and standards contained in building and housing codes, the zoning ordinance,
the comprehensive plan, land use plan, and the capital budget of the city.
   D.    Land that has been subdivided prior to the effective date hereof
should, whenever possible, be brought into conformity with these regulations to
further the purposes of this title as set forth in section
12-1-2 of this chapter. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-1-4: JURISDICTION:
   A.    The regulations governing plats and subdivision of land contained
herein will apply within the boundaries of the city and within all
unincorporated areas within the city's orderly annexation area as defined by
the comprehensive plan and as permitted by Minnesota Statutes Annotated section
462.358. In the event of overlapping jurisdiction within the prescribed area,
the extent of overlapping jurisdiction will be determined and agreed upon
between the city and the other municipality or municipalities concerned. This
title is not intended to repeal, annul, or in any way impair or interfere with
restrictive covenants running with the land except those specifically repealed
by, or in conflict with, this title.
   B.    No land may be subdivided through the use of any legal description
other than with reference to a plat approved by the planning commission in
accordance with these regulations.
   C.    No land described in this section shall be subdivided or developed
until each of the following conditions has occurred in accordance with these
regulations:
      1.    The subdivider or his agent has submitted a conforming sketch plan
of the subdivision to the administrator for the planning commission;
      2.    The subdivider or his agent has obtained approval of the sketch
plan, a preliminary plat when required, and a final plat from the planning
commission and the city council;
      3.    The subdivider or his agent files the approved plats with the Clay
County recorder. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-1-5: INTERPRETATION:
In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be
held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety, and general welfare, and to implement the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-1-6: EXISTING LAW:
Where the conditions imposed by any provision of this title are either more
restrictive or less restrictive than comparable conditions imposed by any other
law, ordinance, code, statute, resolution, or regulation of any kind, the
regulations which are more restrictive, or impose the higher standards or
requirements shall prevail. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-1-7: SEPARABILITY:
Should any section or provision of this title or the application of this title
be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision
shall not affect the validity of the title as a whole, or any part thereof,
other than the part so declared to be unconstitutional or invalid. (Ord. 232,
12-2-2002)
12-1-8: REPEAL OF CONFLICTING ORDINANCES:
All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with this subdivision
regulation, or inconsistent with the provisions of this title, are hereby
repealed to the extent necessary to give this title full force and effect. This
title shall become effective upon its adoption and thirty (30) days after
publication by the Hawley city council. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-1-9: RELATION TO THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN:
Enforcement, amendment, and administration of this title will be accomplished
with due consideration of the recommendations contained in the comprehensive
plan for the city of Hawley, Minnesota, as adopted and periodically amended by
the planning commission and city council. The city council recognizes the
comprehensive plan as the principal guidance for regulating land use and
development in accordance with the policies and purpose set forth in this
title. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-1-10: AUTHORITY:
The planning commission of the city is vested with the authority to review,
approve, conditionally approve and disapprove applications for the subdivision
of land, including sketch plans, preliminary plats, and final plats. The
planning commission may grant variances from these regulations pursuant to the
provisions of section
12-7-6 of this title. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-1-11: PUBLIC PURPOSE:
Regulating the subdivision of land and the attachment of reasonable conditions
to land subdivision is an exercise of valid police power delegated by the state
to this municipality. The developer has the duty of compliance with reasonable
conditions laid down by the planning commission for design, dedication,
improvement, and restrictive use of the land to conform to the physical and
economic development of the city and to the health, safety, and general welfare
of the future lot owners within the subdivisions and of the community at large.
(Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
CHAPTER 2
RULES AND DEFINITIONS
SECTION:
12-2-1: Rules
12-2-2: Definitions
12-2-1: RULES:
For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms used herein shall be
interpreted as follows:
   A.    The word "person" includes an owner or representative of the owner,
firm, association organization, partnership, trust, company or corporation as
well as an individual.
   B.    The present tense includes the future tense, the singular includes the
plural, and the plural includes the singular.
   C.    The word "shall" is mandatory; the word "may" is permissive. (Ord.
232, 12-2-2002)
12-2-2: DEFINITIONS:
Wherever the following words and terms occur in this title they shall be
interpreted as herein defined:
ALLEY: A public or private right of way primarily designed to serve as
secondary access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal
frontage is on a street.
APPLICANT: The owner, their agent or person having legal control, ownership
and/or interest in land proposed to be subdivided.
ATTORNEY: The attorney employed or retained by the city unless otherwise
stated.
BWSR: The state of Minnesota board of water and soil resources or its
successor.
BIKEWAY: A public right of way or easement across a block or within a block to
provide access for bicyclists and in which a path or trail is installed.
BLOCK: An area of land within a subdivision that is bounded by streets, or by a
combination of streets and public parks, cemeteries, railroad right of way,
drainage ditches, or boundary lines of municipalities.
BOULEVARD: The portion of the street right of way between the curb line and the
property line.
BUILDING: Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, chattel or movable property of any kind, and includes any structure.
BUILDING CODE: The building code adopted by the state of Minnesota.
BUILDING OFFICIAL: Representatives of the city who have been appointed by the
city council and/or assigned the responsibility of enforcing provisions of this
title. Also referred to as zoning official.
CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY: A document prepared by a registered land surveyor which
precisely describes area, dimensions, and location of a parcel of land.
CITY: City of Hawley.
CITY COUNCIL: City council of Hawley, Minnesota.
COMMON OPEN SPACE: Any open space including private parks, nature areas,
playgrounds, trails, and recreational buildings and structures, which is an
integral part of a development and is not owned on an individual basis by each
owner of the dwelling unit.
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN: Unless otherwise stated, it is the general plan for land
use, housing, transportation, and community facilities; prepared and maintained
by the city council for the municipality.
CONTOUR MAP: A map on which irregularities of land surface are shown by lines
connecting points of equal elevation. "Contour interval" will mean the vertical
height between contour lines.
COPY: A print or reproduction made from an original.
COUNTY: Clay County, Minnesota.
DESIGN STANDARDS: Specifications that applicants proposing to subdivide land
must follow when preparing plats, both preliminary and final, indicating among
other things, the optimum, minimum, or maximum dimensions of such items as
rights of way, blocks, easements, and lots.
DEVELOPMENT: The act of building structures and installing site improvements.
DRAINAGE COURSE: A watercourse or swale for the drainage of surface water.
DWELLING: A building or portion thereof, designated exclusively for residential
occupancy, including one-family, two-family, and multiple-family dwellings, but
not including hotels, motels or boarding houses.
DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY: A residence designed for or occupied by two (2) or
more families living independently of each other, with separate housekeeping
and cooking facilities for each unit. A two-family dwelling (duplex) with a
rooming unit(s) shall be considered and classified as a multi-family dwelling.
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY: A residence designed for or occupied by one family
only.
DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY: A residence designed for or occupied by two (2) families
only, with separate housekeeping and cooking facilities for each, this would
include single-family homes with an apartment in the basement.
DWELLING UNIT: A residential building or portion thereof intended for occupancy
by one or more persons with facilities for living, sleeping, cooking and
eating, but not including hotels, motels, nursing homes, seasonal cabins,
boarding or rooming houses, tourist homes or trailers.
DWELLING UNIT, EFFICIENCY: Any one room unit having cooking facilities and used
for combined living, dining, and sleeping purposes.
EASEMENT: A grant by an owner of land for a specific use by persons other than
the owner.
ENGINEER OF CITY OR CITY ENGINEER: The registered engineer employed or retained
by the city, unless otherwise stated.
FINAL PLAT: A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all of the requirements
of the city and in such form as required by Clay County for the purpose of
recording.
FLOOD RELATED:
Equal Degree Of Encroachment: Method of determining the location of
encroachment lines so that the hydraulic capacity of floodplain lands on each
side of a stream are reduced by an equal amount when calculating the increases
in flood stages due to floodplain encroachments.
FEMA: Federal emergency management agency.
Flood: A temporary rise in stream flow or stage that results in inundation of
the areas adjacent to the channel.
Flood Frequency: The average frequency, statistically determined, for which it
is expected that a specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or
exceeded.
Flood Fringe: That portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway. Flood
fringe is synonymous with the term "floodway fringe" used in the flood
insurance study for the city.
Flood Hazard Areas: The areas included in the floodway and flood fringe as
indicated on the official zoning map and the flood insurance study and flood
insurance rate map which have been officially adopted by the city.
Flood Insurance Rate Map: The flood insurance rate map prepared by the federal
emergency management agency for the city.
Flood Insurance Study: The flood insurance study prepared for the city by the
federal emergency management agency and dated March 16, 1981, and, as
applicable and allowed by law, the most recent flood insurance study prepared
by the federal emergency management agency for the county of Clay.
Floodplain: The areas adjoining a watercourse which has been or hereafter may
be covered by the 100-year flood as determined by the use of the 100-year flood
profile and other supporting technical data in the flood insurance study.
Floodproofing: A combination of structural provisions, changes, or adjustments
to properties and structures subject to flooding primarily for the reduction or
elimination of flood damages to properties, water and sanitary facilities,
structures and contents of buildings in a flood hazard area in accordance with
the Minnesota state building code.
Floodway: The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the adjoining
floodplains which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the regional
flood determined by the use of the 100-year flood profile and other supporting
technical data in the flood insurance study.
Obstruction: Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel rectification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or projecting
into any channel, watercourse of regulatory flood hazard area which might
impede, retard or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself
or by catching or collecting debris carried by the water, or that is placed
where the flow of water might carry the same downstream to the damage of life
or property.
100-Year Flood: A flood which is representative of large regional flood known
to have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably characteristic of what
can be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-
year recurrence interval as determined by the use of the 100-year flood profile
and other supporting technical data in the flood insurance study.
Reach: A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream or river influenced by the natural or manmade obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would most typically constitute a reach.
Regulatory Flood Projection Elevation: A point not less than one foot (1')
above the water surface profile associated with the 100-year flood as
determined by the use of the 100-year flood profile and supporting technical
data from the flood insurance study plus any increase in flood height
attributed to encroachments on the floodplain. It is the elevation to which
uses regulated by this title are required to be elevated or floodproofed.
FLOOR AREA, GROSS: The sum of the gross horizontal areas of all the floors of a
building utilized for principal and accessory uses.
GOVERNING BODY: The Hawley city council.
IMPERVIOUS SURFACE: An artificial or natural surface through which water, air
or roots cannot penetrate.
KEY MAP: A scale map which definitively shows the area proposed to be platted
in relation to known geographical features (e.g., town center, streets).
LANDSCAPING: Planting, such as trees, flowers, grass, shrubs, and may include
the reshaping of the land by moving earth or other physical improvements.
LOT: A parcel or portion of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum
zoning requirements for use, coverage and area, and to provide such yards and
other open spaces as are herein required. Such lot shall have frontage on an
improved public street.
LOT AREA: The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot exclusive of
any portion of the right of way of any public roadway.
LOT, BASE: Lots meeting all specifications in the zoning district prior to
being subdivided into a two-family dwelling.
LOT, CORNER: A lot situated at the intersection of two (2) streets, the
interior angle of such intersection not exceeding one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°).
LOT COVERAGE: Determined by dividing that area of a lot that is occupied or
covered by the total horizontal projected surface of all buildings, including
covered porches and accessory buildings, by the gross area of the lot.
LOT DEPTH: Lot depth shall be considered to be the distance between the
midpoint of the front lot line and the midpoint of the rear lot line.
LOT FRONT: The front of a lot shall be considered to be that boundary abutting
a public right of way having the least width. In a through lot where the lot
abuts a limited access street, the front of the lot will be on the street
opposite from the limited access street.
LOT IMPROVEMENT: Any building, structure, place, work of art or other object,
or improvement of the land on which it is situated, a physical betterment of
real property, or any part of such betterment.
LOT LINE: A property boundary line of any lot except that where any portion of
the lot extends into the abutting street or alley. The lot line shall be deemed
to be the street or alley right of way.
LOT LINE, FRONT: That boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street. In the case of a corner lot it shall be the shortest dimension
on a public street. If the dimensions of a corner lot are equal, the front line
shall be designated by the owner and filed with the zoning official.
LOT LINE, REAR: That boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line. If
the rear lot line is less than ten feet (10') in length, or if the lot forms a
point at the rear, the rear lot line shall be a line of ten feet (10') in
length within the lot, parallel to, and at the maximum distance from the front
lot line.
LOT LINE, SIDE: Any boundary of a lot which is not a front lot line or rear lot
line.
LOT OF RECORD: Any lot which is one unit of a plat heretofore duly approved and
filed, or one unit of an auditor's outlot or a registered land survey, or a
parcel of land not so platted, subdivided or registered but for which a deed,
auditor's subdivision or registered land survey has been recorded in the office
of the register of deeds or registrar of ordinances for Clay County, Minnesota,
prior to the effective date hereof.
LOT, SUBSTANDARD: A lot or parcel of land for which a deed has been recorded in
the office of the Clay County recorder upon or prior to the effective date
hereof which does not meet the minimum lot area, structure setbacks or other
dimensional standards of this title.
LOT TYPES:
Corner Lot: A lot which occupies the interior angle at the intersection of two
(2) street lines which make an angle of less than one hundred thirty five
degrees (135°) with each other.
Double Frontage Or Through Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with frontage on
more than one street other than an alley.
Interior Lot: A lot other than a corner lot with only one frontage on a street
other than an alley.
Reversed Frontage Lot: A lot in which the frontage is at right angles, or
approximately right angles, to the general pattern in the area involved. A
reversed frontage lot may be a corner lot or an interior lot.
LOT UNIT: Lots created from the subdivisions of a two-family dwelling having
different minimum lot size requirements than the conventional base lots within
the zoning district.
LOT WIDTH: The distance between the side lot lies, measured along the setback
line as established by this title, or if no setback line is established, the
distance between the side lot lines along the measured street line.
METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION: A description of real property which is not
described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by
starting at a known point and describing the bearings and distances of the
lines forming the boundaries of the property or delineating a fractional
portion of a section, lot or area by describing lines or portions thereof.
NATURAL WATERWAY: A natural passageway on the surface of the earth, so situated
and having such a topographical nature that surface water flows through it from
other areas before reaching a final ponding area.
OPEN SPACE: Any open area not covered by structures, but not limited to the
following uses: required or established yard areas, parking areas, sidewalks,
trails, recreation areas, water bodies, shore lands, watercourses, wetlands,
ground water recharge areas, floodplain, floodway, flood fringe, erodible
slopes, woodland and soils with severe limitation for development.
OUTLOT: A lot or parcel of real property, reserved for future building or
occupancy after platting.
OWNER: An individual, association, syndicate, partnership, corporation, trust
or any other legal ownership interest in land buildings, structures, dwelling
unit(s) or other property.
PARCEL: An individual lot or tract of land.
PARKS AND PLAYGROUNDS: Public land and open space in the city dedicated or
reserved for recreational purposes.
PERCENTAGE OF GRADE: Along a centerline of a street, the change in vertical
elevation in feet and tenths of a foot for each one hundred feet (100') of
horizontal distance, expressed as a percentage.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS: Criterion established for setbacks, fencing,
landscaping, screening drainage, accessory buildings, outside storage; to
control noise, odor, toxic or noxious matter, vibrations, fire and explosive
hazards, or glare or heat or other nuisance elements generated by or inherent
in uses of land or buildings.
PERMITTED USE: A use which may be lawfully established in a particular
district, provided it conforms to all requirements, regulations and performance
standards (if any) of such districts.
PERSON: Any individual or legal entity.
PLANNING COMMISSION: The Hawley planning commission.
PRELIMINARY PLAT: A detailed drawing or map of a proposed subdivision, meeting
the requirements of this title and in compliance with the comprehensive plan,
submitted to the planning commission and governing body for their
consideration.
PRIVATE STREET: A street serving as vehicular access to two (2) or more parcels
of land which is not dedicated to the public and is owned by one or more
private parties.
PROTECTIVE COVENANTS: Contracts entered into between owners and holders of
mortgages constituting a restriction on the use of property within a
subdivision for the benefit of the property owners.
PUBLIC: Pertaining to municipal, school district, county, state or other
governmental units.
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT: Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, street, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, water system, sidewalk, pedestrian facilities (dedicated
rights of way for such use), tree, lawn, off street parking area, lot
improvement, or other facility for which the city may ultimately assume
ownership, responsibility for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an
improvement, for which local government responsibility is established.
PUBLIC USES: Uses owned or operated by municipal, school districts, county,
state or other governmental units.
PUBLIC WATERS: Any waters of the state which serve a beneficial public purpose,
as defined in Minnesota statutes 1974, section 105.37, subdivision 6, not
including however, a lake, pond, or flowage of less than ten (10) acres in size
or a river stream having a total drainage area less than two (2) square miles.
In addition, bodies of water created by private users, where there was not
previous shore land (for a designated private use authorized by the
commissioner of natural resources) shall also not be considered public waters.
The official determination of the size and physical limits of the drainage
areas of rivers and streams shall be made by the commissioner of natural
resources. The official size of lakes, ponds, or flowage shall be the area
listed in the division of waters, soils and minerals bulletin 25, "An Inventory
Of Minnesota Lakes", or in the event that lakes, ponds, or flowage are not
listed therein, official determination of size and physical limits shall be
made by the commissioner in cooperation with the city of Hawley.
RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS: Contracts entered into between all owners and holders of
mortgage constituting a restriction on the use of property within a subdivision
for the benefit of the property owners, and providing mutual protection against
undesirable aspects of property value and economic integrity of any given area.
RIGHT OF WAY: A strip of land occupied, or intended to be occupied, by a
street, crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or for any
other special use. The usage of the term "right of way" for land platting
purposes shall mean that every right of way hereafter established and shown on
a final plat is to be separate and distinct from the lots or parcels adjoining
such right of way and not included within the dimensions or areas of such lots
or parcels. Rights of way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains,
sanitary sewers, storm drains, shade trees, or any other use involving
maintenance by a public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of
the plat on which such right of way is established.
SETBACK: The minimum horizontal distance between a structure and the property
line nearest thereto. The city boulevard is not part of the required setback.
Distances are to be measured from the most outwardly extended portion of the
structure at ground level, except as provided hereinafter.
SKETCH PLAN: A conceptual plan to facilitate discussion between the applicant
and the city staff regarding a proposed subdivision. The sketch plan may show
the proposed layout of streets, lots, proposed playgrounds and parks, the 100-
year flood contour line, zoning, approximate lot size, and as much relevant
information as possible.
STATE: The state of Minnesota.
STREET: A public right of way for vehicular traffic, whether designated as a
highway, thoroughfare, arterial, parkway, collector, throughway, road, avenue,
boulevard, lane, place, drive, court or otherwise designated, which has been
dedicated to the public for public use and which affords principal means of
access to abutting property.
STREET LINE: The right of way line of a street.
STREET PAVEMENT: The wearing or exposed surface of a street or roadway used by
vehicular traffic.
STREET WIDTH: The shortest distance between the curb lines of a street.
STREETS, ARTERIAL: Those streets carrying larger volumes of traffic and serving
as links between various subareas of the city. Arterial streets are intended to
provide for collection and distribution of traffic between highways and
collector streets; hence regulation of direct access to property is critical.
STREETS, COLLECTOR: Those streets which carry traffic from local streets to the
major system of arterials and highways. Collector streets primarily provide
principal access to residential neighborhoods, including to a lesser degree,
direct land access.
STREETS, CUL-DE-SAC: A local street with only one outlet and having an
appropriate terminal or terminals for the safe and convenient reversal of
traffic movement.
STREETS, LOCAL: A road or street whose primary function is to provide direct
access to residential land uses and is a two (2) lane road with parking
permitted within the roadway. Designation is based upon the zoning of the
property abutting the right of way. In cases where right of way abuts two (2)
different zoning classifications the greater width will apply.
STREETS, MARGINAL ACCESS (FRONTAGE ROAD): Those local streets which are
parallel and adjacent to high volume arterial streets and highways; and which
provide access to abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
STRUCTURE: Anything which is built, constructed or erected; an edifice or
building of any kind; or any piece of work artificially built up and/or
composed of parts joined together in some definite manner whether temporary or
permanent in character. Among other things, structures including buildings,
manufactured homes, walls, fences, towers, antennas, swimming pools, billboards
and poster panels.
SUBDIVIDING: The process of dividing land.
SUBDIVISION: The dividing of an area, parcel, or tract of land into two (2) or
more parcels, tracts, lots, or long term leasehold interests where the creation
of the leasehold interest necessitates the creation of streets, roads, or
alleys for residential, commercial, industrial, or other use or any combination
thereof. This term includes resubdivision and where appropriate to the context,
will relate to the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided. Any land,
vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed to be divided into two (2) or
more lots, parcels, sites, units, plots, condominiums, tracts, or interests for
the purpose of offer, sale, lease, or development whether immediate or future,
either on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and
conditions. Subdivision includes the division or development of land zoned
residential or nonresidential, whether by deed, metes and bounds description,
devise, intestacy, lease, map, plat, or other recorded instrument. Subdivision
includes resubdivision and condominium creation or conversion. Subdivision will
apply as outlined herein except for these separations:
   A.    Creating cemetery lots; and
   B.    Resulting from court orders or the adjustment of a lot line by the
relocation of a common boundary.
SUBDIVISION, ADMINISTRATIVE: A boundary adjustment relocating a property line
between adjoining parcels provided the subdivision does not create a new tax
parcel and each parcel retains sufficient lot size required by the zoning
ordinance; or a split of an existing platted lot to accommodate the separate
ownership of each unit in a single-family attached dwelling, provided the
subdivision does not increase the density beyond the maximum number of units
allowed for that parcel by the zoning ordinance or a developer's agreement
approved by the city council; or a combination of two (2) or more contiguous
tax parcels into one parcel or record. Administrative subdivisions may be
exempted from the platting requirements of the city subdivision ordinance.
SUBDIVISION, MAJOR: A subdivision which does not qualify as administrative or
minor and is subject to the platting requirements of the city subdivision
ordinance.
SUBDIVISION, MINOR: A subdivision containing not more than four (4) lots; not
involving the need for public improvements; not in violation of the zoning
ordinance or other applicable state and local ordinances; any other subdivision
of property which is not defined as an administrative subdivision by this
title. Minor subdivisions may be exempted from the platting requirements of
this title.
SURVEYOR: A land surveyor registered under Minnesota state laws.
TRACING: A plat or map drawn on transparent paper, film, or cloth which can be
reproduced by using regular reproduction procedure.
USABLE OPEN SPACE: A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which is
graded, developed, landscaped and equipped and intended and maintained for
either active or passive recreation or both, available to and usable by all
persons occupying a dwelling unit or rooming unit on the lot and their guests.
Such areas shall be grassed and landscaped or covered only for recreational
purpose. Roofs, driveways and parking areas shall not constitute usable open
space.
USE: The purpose or activity for which the land or building thereon is
designated, arranged, or intended or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained, and shall include the performance of such activity as defined by
the performance standards of this title.
VARIANCE: A variance is a relaxation of the terms of the zoning ordinance where
such variance will not be contrary to the public interest and where, owing to
conditions peculiar to the property and not the result of the actions of the
applicant, a literal enforcement of the ordinance would result in unnecessary
and undue hardship. As used in this title, a variance is authorized only for
area, size of structure, size of yards, setback and side yard requirements, and
parking requirements; establishment or expansion of a use otherwise prohibited
shall not be allowed by variance, nor shall a variance be granted because of
the presence of nonconformities in the zoning district or adjoining zoning
districts.
WATERSHED: The area drained by the natural and artificial drainage system,
bounded peripherally by a bridge or stretch of high land dividing drainage
areas.
WETLANDS: An area where water stands near, at or above the soil surface during
a significant portion of most years, saturating the soil and supporting a
predominately aquatic form of vegetation, and which may have the following
characteristics:
   A.    Vegetation belonging to the marsh (emergent aquatic), bog, fen, sedge
meadow, shrubland, southern lowland forest (lowland hardwood), and northern
lowland forest (conifer swamp) communities. (These communities correspond
roughly to wetland types 1,2,3,4,6,7 and 8 described by the United States fish
and wildlife services, circular 39, "Wetlands Of The U.S. 1956").
   B.    Mineral soils with gley horizons or organic soils belonging to the
Histosol order (peat and muck).
   C.    Soil which is waterlogged or covered with water at least three (3)
months of the year.
Swamps, bogs, marshes, potholes, wet meadows and sloughs are wetlands, and such
property, may be shallow water bodies, the waters of which are stagnant or
actuated by very feeble currents, and may at times be sufficiently dry to
permit tillage, but would require drainage to be made arable. The edge of a
wetland is commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial.
ZONING MAP: The map or maps incorporated into the zoning ordinance as part
thereof, designating the zoning districts.
ZONING OFFICIAL: The duly appointed officer charged with the administration and
enforcement of this title.
ZONING ORDINANCE: The zoning ordinance of the city of Hawley. (Ord. 232, 12-2-
2002)
CHAPTER 3
SUBDIVISION APPLICATION AND REVIEW PROCESS
SECTION:
12-3-1: General Procedure
12-3-2: Official Submission Dates
12-3-3: Minor Or Administrative Subdivision
12-3-4: Discussion Of Requirements And Sketch Plan
12-3-5: Preliminary Plat
12-3-6: Final Plat
12-3-7: Approval Of Preliminary And Final Plat Simultaneously
12-3-1: GENERAL PROCEDURE:
Before any land is subdivided, the owner of the property proposed to be
subdivided, or his authorized agent shall apply for and secure approval of the
proposed subdivision in accordance with the following procedures:
   A.    Minor And Administrative Subdivision:
      1.    File a written request and completed city application form with the
zoning official, accompanied by a fee and the proposed legal descriptions. You
must supply proof, satisfactory to the city, of title and the legal description
of the property for which the minor or administrative subdivision is requested.
The city may request additional information necessary for a proper review.
      2.    After receiving your written request and required information, the
zoning official will determine if the proposed subdivision is consistent with
the requirements of section
12-3-3 of this chapter for administrative subdivisions. If so, the zoning
official will provide the applicant a certificate of subdivision approval
authorizing the recording of the subdivision with the county recorder.
      3.    If the zoning official determines that the proposed subdivision
will require approval of a minor subdivision as defined by section
12-3-3 of this chapter or found to be in the city's best interest, city staff
will place the item on the next available city council agenda.
      4.    The city council may decide to approve the minor subdivision by
resolution upon a majority vote of the quorum of the city council. If approved
by city council, the zoning official will provide the applicant a certificate
of subdivision approval authorizing the recording of the subdivision with the
county recorder.
   B.    Major Subdivision:
      1.    Sketch plan.
      2.    Preliminary plat.
      3.    Final subdivision plat. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-3-2: OFFICIAL SUBMISSION DATES:
For the purpose of these regulations, for both minor and major subdivisions,
the date at which all materials, forms, and payment are received by the city
for either a preliminary or final plat shall constitute the official submission
date of the plat. The city has sixty (60) days to determine formal approval,
conditional approval, or disapproval of the preliminary plat; the city has
sixty (60) days to determine formal approval, conditional approval, or
disapproval of the final subdivision plat. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-3-3: MINOR OR ADMINISTRATIVE SUBDIVISION:
When in the best interest of the city and with cases of administrative or minor
subdivisions, the platting procedures of this title may be waived. A letter,
proper city application, and legal description must be submitted to the city
for minor and administrative subdivisions prior to being placed on the planning
commission or city council agenda.
   A.    Minor Or Administrative Subdivision: Minor and administrative
subdivisions may be exempt from platting requirement of this title provided
they are in accordance with all of the following:
      1.    There is no need for public improvements as a result of the
subdivision;
      2.    The subdivision does not violate any provision of the zoning
ordinance, comprehensive plan, or any other state or city ordinance;
      3.    The subdivision does not adversely affect public health, safety and
general welfare;
      4.    The subdivision is not part of a continuing theme of lot splitting
for a particular area;
      5.    Any platted lot may be split up to four (4) times through minor
subdivision;
      6.    A completed city of Hawley application form, legal description of
the proposed parcels, drawing of the existing and proposed parcels, setback of
existing structures to the proposed property lines, and an explanation of any
encroachments are provided to the zoning official.
   B.    Administrative Subdivision: The zoning official may waive the platting
requirement and administratively approve a subdivision that complies with
subsections A1 through A6 of this section, and in the following instances:
      1.    A boundary adjustment relocating a property line between adjoining
parcels, provided the subdivision does not create a new tax parcel and each
parcel retains sufficient lot size required by the zoning ordinance.
      2.    A split of an existing platted lot to accommodate the separate
ownership of each unit in a single-family attached dwelling unit, provided the
subdivision does not increase the density beyond the maximum number of units
allowed for that parcel by the zoning ordinance or a developer's agreement
approved by the city council.
      3.    A combination of two (2) or more contiguous tax parcels into one
parcel of record.
   C.    Minor Subdivisions: The city council (with or without planning
commission recommendation) may waive the platting requirement and approve by
resolution a minor subdivision that complies with subsections A1 through A6 of
this section, and in the following instances:
      1.    A subdivision, other than a division of a single-family attached
dwelling, which contains not more than four (4) splits.
      2.    A subdivision by metes and bounds description which would not
increase the density of a tax parcel beyond what is allowed by its zoning
classification.
      3.    Any other subdivision of property by metes and bounds description
which is not defined as an administrative subdivision. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-3-4: DISCUSSION OF REQUIREMENTS AND SKETCH PLAN:
   A.    Discussion Of Requirements: Before preparing a preliminary plat of any
development, the developer is requested to discuss with the zoning official the
procedure for authorization of the development.
   B.    Sketch Plan Submission: Prior to the submission of an application for
preliminary plat of a subdivision, the developer shall submit to the zoning
official a sketch plan of the development.
   C.    Sketch Plan Review: Upon receipt of the sketch plan, the city shall
review the sketch plan for conformity with the zoning regulations and site
characteristics for development suitability. The city shall evaluate the site
characteristics and limitations, if any, of the proposed site of the
development. Following the sketch plan review, the city shall, within thirty
(30) days, respond to the developer in writing and advise the developer of any
stipulations or conditions that are required in the layout or characteristics
of the development proposal. The developer shall certify in writing that he/she
agrees to all requirements of these regulations together with any additional
requirements or conditions as stipulated in the city's review. (Ord. 232, 12-2-
2002)
12-3-5: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
   A.    Submittal To The Planning Commission:
      1.    Application Requirements: After the preapplication meeting and
sketch plan review, the preliminary plat shall be submitted to the zoning
official with a request for approval of the preliminary plat. The applicant
must submit eight (8) large size copies in a scale no smaller than one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), and one reduced scale (81/2 x 11) copy of
a preliminary plat and pay the appropriate filing fee as established in section
3-8-1 of this code. The zoning official shall send one copy of each of the maps
and data submitted with the application to relevant city staff. All comments
from city staff will be given to the planning commission within fourteen (14)
days. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002; amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
      2.    Official Application: At this time, the applicant must also submit
any requests for zoning, rezoning or for variances that may be necessary to
accommodate the proposed plat. The application for preliminary plat approval
may be rejected if it is judged by the zoning official to be incomplete
according to section
12-4-2 of this title. The plat will be considered officially submitted when all
of the information requirements are complied with, the appropriate review fee
(s) paid, and official city application filed. If no action has been taken on
the application by the zoning official within thirty (30) days of submittal,
the application will be forwarded to the planning commission for action.
      3.    Review By Other Entities: The city will refer copies of the
preliminary plat to county, state, township, or other municipal jurisdictions,
as well as utility companies, for review and comments, where appropriate and
when required.
      4.    Public Hearing: Upon receipt of the completed application, the
zoning official will schedule a public hearing for the purpose of public review
of the preliminary plat by the planning commission. The public hearing will be
held within forty five (45) days of the date of filing of the completed
application. Notice of the public hearing must appear in the official newspaper
at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing and must, at a minimum, consist of
a legal description of the property and a description of the request.
      5.    Planning Commission Action: The planning commission will report its
findings and make its recommendation to the city council no later than forty
(40) days after the close of the public hearing described in subsection A4 of
this section. After consideration of all of the information relevant to the
request, the planning commission may recommend approval, conditional approval,
or to reject the request. Upon the determination of its recommendation, the
planning commission shall embrace the same with a motion which shall include:
reasons for granting approval; all conditions required for approval, or
conditions upon which approval will be granted; or reasons for rejection of the
preliminary plat. The subdivider shall be notified of the action together with
any conditions of approval or reasons for approval or rejection. If the
planning commission does not act upon the request within forty five (45) days
following the public hearing, the city council may act upon the request without
the planning commission's recommendation.
   B.    Submittal To City Council:
      1.    City Council Action: Following the action of the planning
commission, the preliminary plat and motion of the planning commission will be
presented to the city council for review and appropriate action. The council
will approve or disapprove the preliminary plat within sixty (60) days
following the receipt of the completed application. Upon final decision by the
city council, it shall state its decision in a motion.
         a.    Preliminary Plat Approval: The city council may adopt the motion
of the planning commission by reference. Upon decision of the city council, the
zoning official shall transmit a copy of the motion or notice of adoption
without change to the subdivider. Approval of the preliminary plat by the city
council shall be effective for a period of one year from the date of approval.
Approval of the preliminary plat shall not constitute an acceptance of the
final plat, but shall be deemed an authorization to proceed with preparation of
the final plat.
         b.    Nonapproval Of The Preliminary Plat: If the preliminary plat is
not approved by the city council, the reasons for such action must be recorded
in the proceedings of the council and must be transmitted to the applicant. The
council may impose such conditions and restrictions as it deems appropriate or
require such revisions or modifications in the preliminary plat as it deems
necessary to protect the health, safety, and general welfare, convenience of
the city.
         c.    Referral Of Preliminary Plat: The city council shall have the
authority to refer the preliminary plat to the planning commission for further
study. Referral of the preliminary plat to the planning commission for further
study shall not constitute final action by the city council. The planning
commission shall return a report to the city council no later than thirty (30)
days following the meeting at which it was referred.
         d.    Preliminary Plat Approval: Approval of the preliminary plat does
not guarantee approval of the final plat; rather, it will be considered an
expression of approval of the layout submitted on the preliminary plat and as a
guide for preparation of the final plat. The subdivider may file a final plat
limited to such portion of the preliminary plat which he proposes to record and
develop at the time, provided that such portion must conform to all
requirements of this title. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-3-6: FINAL PLAT:
   A.    Submittal To The Planning Commission:
      1.    Application Requirements: After the preliminary plat has been
approved, a final plat shall be submitted to the zoning official with a request
for final plat. This step must take place within one year from the date of the
preliminary plat approval or the process restarts. The final plat, which must
be prepared by a certified land surveyor, will incorporate all corrections,
modifications, and revisions required by the city, other agencies, and affected
utility companies, and conform to the approved preliminary plat. The applicant
must submit eight (8) large size copies in a scale no smaller than one inch
equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), and one reduced scale (8.5 x 11) copy of a
preliminary plat and supportive information, and pay the appropriate filing
fees as established in section
3-8-1 of this code. All plats must comply with the provision of the Minnesota
statutes, Clay County requirements and of this title. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002;
amd. Ord. 246, 12-3-2007)
      2.    Zoning Official Review: The zoning official shall review the final
plat and prepare a report stating whether the final plat is in substantial
agreement with the city's ordinances, state statutes, and all of the conditions
attached to the approval of the preliminary plat and, if not, in which
particulars there is disagreement.
      3.    Public Hearing: Upon request of the planning commission or the city
council, the zoning official may schedule a public hearing for the purpose of
public review of the final plat. If requested by the planning commission or the
city council, the public hearing will be held within forty (40) days of the
date of filing of the completed application. The applicant and/or their
representative(s) must appear at the public hearing. Notice of the public
hearing must appear in the official newspaper at least ten (10) days prior to
the hearing and must, at a minimum, consist of a legal description of the
property and a description of the request. The city will refer copies of the
final plat to other affected county, state, or local jurisdictions, utilities,
or other agencies for their review and comment, where appropriate and when
required.
      4.    Planning Commission Action: Within no more than ten (10) days after
the requested public hearing, the planning commission will report its findings
and make its recommendations to the city council. Upon the determination of its
recommendation, the planning commission shall embrace the same with a motion
which shall include: reasons for granting approval, or reasons for rejection of
the final plat. The subdivider shall be notified of the action together with
reasons for approval or rejection.
If approved, a copy of the resolution of the planning commission approving the
final plat shall be sent to the city council, together with the plat, and such
other data as the planning commission shall determine necessary. If the
planning commission approves the final plat, the chairman shall sign the same.
If the planning commission does not act upon the request within ten (10) days
following the meeting at which the final plat was considered, the city council
may act upon the request without the planning commission's recommendation.
If the planning commission determines that it cannot approve the final plat
without certain conditions, it shall by motion set forth the conditions for
approval and forthwith send a copy of such conditions to the subdivider, and
all further action on the final plat shall be suspended until such time that
the subdivider shall respond appropriately. If no further action is taken by
the subdivider within ninety (90) days from the date of the adoption of such
conditions, the plat shall be deemed to be disapproved.
      5.    City Council Action: The city council must take action on the final
plat within sixty (60) days after the city receives a completed application.
Before the city council acts on the final plat, a developer's agreement may be
prepared and approved by the city council.
If available, the applicant should provide a digital copy of the plat, in
compliance with the Clay County GIS standards.
If the city council is not satisfied with the final plat, it may disapprove the
final plat or refer the same to the planning commission for further action as
it shall determine. Upon such referral, the planning commission shall act
thereon at its next regular meeting and report back to the city council within
the sixty (60) day time frame.
      6.    Recording Of Plat: Upon receiving final plat approval by the city
council, the applicant or his/her agent must, within thirty (30) days, provide
the zoning official with all necessary Mylars and hardboards for signatures by
the city's designated representative. After all signatures have been applied,
the applicant must record the plat with the Clay County recorder within
fourteen (14) days and provide receipt of this action to the zoning official,
or the approved final plat will be considered void.
      7.    Denial Of Plat: The planning commission may recommend denial and
the city council may deny a subdivision if it makes any of the following
findings:
         a.    Comprehensive Plan: The proposed subdivision is in direct
conflict with adopted, applicable comprehensive plans of the city, joint powers
area, townships, or county;
         b.    Physical Characteristics: The physical characteristics of the
site, including, but not limited to, topography, percolation rate, soil
conditions, susceptibility to erosion and siltation, susceptibility to
flooding, water storage, drainage, and retention, are such that the site is not
suitable for the type of development, design, or use contemplated;
         c.    Density: The site is not physically suitable for the proposed
density of development;
         d.    Environmental Damage: The design of the subdivision or the
proposed improvements may cause environmental damage;
         e.    Public Health Problems: The design of the subdivision or the
type of improvements is likely to cause serious public health problems;
         f.    Easements: The design of the subdivision or the type of
improvements will conflict with easements of record or with easements
established by judgment of a court;
         g.    Boundaries: The proposed subdivision is outside the boundaries
of the city; and
            (1)    The county, township, or developer has not certified in
writing that they will assume all responsibility for repair and maintenance of
dedicated streets until annexed by the city; or
            (2)    The township or county has not certified in writing that it
has the capacity for, and will provide, police and fire protection and on site
sewer system inspections to ensure proper installation;
         h.    Flood Hazards: The proposed subdivision, its site, or its design
adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the floodway, increases flood
stages and velocities, or increases flood hazards within the floodway fringe or
within other areas of the city;
         i.    MEQB Policies: The proposed subdivision is inconsistent with the
policies of the Minnesota environmental quality board, as may be amended, and
could adversely impact sensitive environmental areas, or potentially disrupt or
destroy historic areas which are designated or officially recognized by the
city council and/or federal or state historic preservation laws;
         j.    Preliminary Plat Review: The final plat does not incorporate the
council imposed conditions and restrictions, or required revisions and
modifications from the preliminary plat review;
         k.    Utility Installation: The final plat does not allow for feasible
installation of utilities as documented in city engineer's report, section
12-5-17 of this title. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-3-7: APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLAT SIMULTANEOUSLY:
Where the developer has submitted all data required for both the preliminary
and final plat, the planning commission, following a public hearing on said
plat, may recommend to the city council approval of both the preliminary and
final plat simultaneously. Upon such recommendation the city council may follow
the above procedure as when a final plat is submitted. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
CHAPTER 4
PLAT AND DATA REQUIREMENTS
SECTION:
12-4-1: Sketch Plan
12-4-2: Preliminary Plat
12-4-3: Final Plat
12-4-4: Certification Required
12-4-1: SKETCH PLAN:
All sketch plans shall be accompanied by general information regarding the
proposed subdivision and show in simple form the proposed layout of streets,
lots, and other features in relation to the existing conditions including
information describing the design and character of the subdivision and data on
existing topographic conditions. A typical sketch plan should show the
following features:
   A.    Names of legal property owners and adjacent property owners and/or
applicable business names.
   B.    Legal description of area, size of the area in acres and square feet,
location of the property by section, township, range, and county, graphic
scale, north arrow, and date.
   C.    Locations of property lines, existing easements, burial grounds,
railroad rights of way, watercourses, wetlands, flood hazard areas, wooded
areas, and the location, width, and names of all platted streets or other
public ways within or immediately adjacent to the tract.
   D.    Locations of existing sewers, water mains, culverts, and utility
facilities located on or immediately adjacent to the tract.
   E.    Existing drainage patterns and preliminary provisions for collecting
and discharging surface water.
   F.    The approximate location and widths of proposed streets.
   G.    Preliminary proposals for connection with existing water supply and
sanitary sewer system. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-4-2: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
The applicant must prepare and submit a preliminary plat, together with a cover
letter, city application, and appropriate fee(s). The preliminary plat should
contain the information set forth in the subsections which follow. Upon
specific request, the city may exempt an applicant from the submission of data
which is not considered relevant to the application; or may require other
information relevant to the plat as deemed necessary.
   A.    Identification And Description:
      1.    The proposed name of the subdivision; names must not duplicate or
be alike in pronunciation to the name of any plat recorded in the city or begin
with the wording "Replat".
      2.    Name of the owner(s) of record, or any having control of the land,
and the land surveyor.
      3.    Location of boundary lines in relation to a known section, quarter
section, or quarter section lines comprising a legal description of the
property.
      4.    Graphic scale not less than one inch (1") to one hundred feet
(100').
      5.    North point/arrow.
      6.    Date of preparation.
   B.    Existing Conditions:
      1.    Boundary lines to include bearings and distances.
      2.    Location of existing rights of way, recorded easements, parks, and
other land dedicated for public use.
      3.    100-year flood elevations, the regulatory flood protection, and
boundaries of floodway and flood fringe areas, if known, taking into
consideration the flood insurance study and flood insurance rate map.
      4.    Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of not
more than one-half foot (1/2') shown on a contour/topographic map.
Watercourses, marshes, wetlands, wooded areas, rock outcrops, power
transmission poles and lines, and other significant features also must be
shown. USGS data must be used for all topographic mapping where feasible.
      5.    All wetland areas must be delineated and recorded on the plat as
per the Minnesota wetland conservation act, and also conform to title 11 of
this code.
   C.    Proposed Subdivision Features:
      1.    Layout of proposed streets showing the right of way widths, and
proposed names of streets in conformance with city and county street
identification policies. The name of any street heretofore used in the city or
its environs should not be used unless the proposed street is a logical
extension of an already named street, in which event the same name should be
used. Show the layout of proposed sidewalks and bikeways.
      2.    If any zoning changes are contemplated, the proposed zoning plan
for the areas, including dimensions, must be shown. Such proposed zoning plan
will be for information only and will not vest any rights in the applicant.
      3.    Locations and widths of proposed alleys, pedestrianways.
      4.    Statement of the proposed use of lots stating type of buildings
with number of proposed dwelling units or type of business or industry, so as
to reveal the effect of the development on traffic, park facilities, fire
hazards, and congestion of population. The city may require the applicant to
have formal traffic or other studies performed to the city's satisfaction which
show the effect of the proposed development on traffic, fire hazards and
congestion.
      5.    Site(s) dedicated for parks, playgrounds or other public uses to
include size of such dedications.
      6.    Areas, other than streets, alleys, bikeways, pedestrianways and
utility easements, intended to be dedicated or reserved for public use,
including the size of such area or areas in acres.
      7.    Grading plan which must include the proposed grading and drainage
of the site, including provisions for surface water ponding and drainage;
including proposed water retention areas.
      8.    Lot lines, lot numbers and block numbers; total square footage of
each lot.
      9.    Lot dimensions, including square footage of each block.
      10.    Total acreage of proposed plat area.
   D.    Supplementary Information: Any or all of the supplementary information
requirements set forth in this subsection should be submitted separately from
the plat when deemed necessary by the city staff, consultants, advisory bodies
and/or city council to adequately address the application and site in question.
      1.    Proposed fill, levees, channel modifications, and other methods to
overcome flood or erosion hazard areas in accordance with the zoning ordinance
and by use of the 100-year flood profile and other supporting technical data in
the flood insurance study.
      2.    Existing zoning classifications for land in and abutting the
subdivision.
      3.    Sites, if any, for multi-family dwellings, shopping centers,
churches, industry or other nonpublic uses exclusive of single- family
dwellings.
      4.    Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts or
other underground facilities within the preliminary plat area and to a distance
of one hundred fifty feet (150') beyond. Such data as grades and locations of
catch basins, manholes, hydrants and street pavement width and type also must
be shown. A written plan to seal any existing wells/sewers to come into
compliance with city ordinances must be submitted.
      5.    Subsurface conditions on tracts for subdivisions utilizing
individual water and sewage disposal systems; location and results of tests to
ascertain subsurface soil, rock and ground water conditions and availability;
location and results of soil percolation tests.
      6.    Other conditions on the tract: isolated preservable trees one foot
(1') or more in diameter, existing houses, barns, and other significant
features.
      7.    A plan for soil erosion and sediment control both during
construction and after development has been completed. The plan must include
gradients of waterways, design of velocity and erosion control measures, design
of sediment control measures, and landscaping of the erosion and sediment
control system. Such plans are to be in accordance with best management
practices (BMPs) as provided by the Minnesota pollution control agency and the
board of water and soil resources.
      8.    A statement certifying the environmental condition of the site
including the presence of any hazardous substance as defined in Minnesota
statutes 115B.02, subdivision 8. Such statement may be required to be based
upon an environmental assessment of the site by an environmental engineering
firm acceptable to the city.
      9.    An environmental assessment worksheet must be submitted if the
city, city consultants, Minnesota environmental quality board, or other groups
or agencies determine that one is required by law.
      10.    All wetland areas must be delineated and recorded on the plat as
per the Minnesota wetland conservation act, and also conform to title 11 of
this code.
      11.    Such other information as may be required by the city. (Ord. 232,
12-2-2002)
12-4-3: FINAL PLAT:
The applicant must submit a final plat together with the appropriate fee and
any supplementary information. The final plat, prepared for recording purposes,
must be prepared in accordance with provisions of Minnesota state statutes and
Clay County regulations, and such final plat must contain the following
information:
   A.    General Requirements:
      1.    The final plat must be prepared and certified by a land surveyor
who is registered in the state of Minnesota and must comply with the provisions
of the law and this title.
      2.    Name of the subdivision, which must not duplicate or too closely
approximate the name of any existing plat recorded in the county or begin with
the word "Replat".
      3.    Location by section, township, range, county, and state, and
including descriptive boundaries of the subdivision, based on an accurate
traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions.
      4.    The location of monuments must be shown and described on the final
plat. Locations of such monuments must be shown in reference to existing
official monuments on the nearest established street lines, including true
angles, and distance to such reference points or monuments.
      5.    Location of lots, outlots, street rights of way, public highways,
alleys, parks, and other features, with accurate dimensions in feet and
decimals of feet, with the length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with
all other information necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground must be
shown. Dimensions must be shown from all angle points of curve to lot lines.
      6.    Lots must be numbered clearly; blocks are to be numbered, with
numbers shown clearly in the center of the block.
      7.    Total square footage per lot, acreage per block, and total acres in
the plat, to be submitted separately from the plat.
      8.    The exact locations, widths, and names of all streets to be
dedicated.
      9.    Location, purpose, and width of all easements to be dedicated.
      10.    Scale not less than one inch to one hundred feet (1" = 100') of
plat (the scale to be shown graphically on a bar scale), date and north arrow.
      11.    A written statement from the county or township submitted
separately, if the subdivision lies outside the boundaries of the city and is
not to be annexed, certifying the following:
         a.    The road authority, county, township or developer, will assume
all responsibility for repair and maintenance of dedicated streets until
annexation to the city.
         b.    The township or county has the capacity for and will provide
police and fire protection and on site sewer system and well inspections to
ensure property installations.
      12.    An executed copy of restrictive covenants to be submitted
separately from the plat.
      13.    Statement dedicating all easements as follows: "Easements for
installation and maintenance of utilities and drainage facilities are reserved
over, under, and along the designated areas marked ‘utility easements'".
      14.    Statement dedicating all streets, alleys, and other public areas
not previously dedicated as follows: "Streets, alleys, and other public areas
shown on this plat and not heretofore dedicated to public use are hereby so
dedicated".
      15.    Legal proof of property ownership for formal chain of ownership
review by city attorney.
      16.    All wetland areas must be delineated and recorded on the plat as
per the Minnesota wetland conservation act, and also conform to title 11 of
this code.
      17.    Such other information that may be required by the city. (Ord.
232, 12-2-2002)
12-4-4: CERTIFICATION REQUIRED:
   A.    Certification by a registered land surveyor in the form required by
section 505.03, Minnesota statutes, as amended.
   B.    Execution of all owners of any interest in the land and holders of a
mortgage thereon of the certificates required by section 505.03, Minnesota
statutes, as amended, and which certificate must include a dedication of the
utility easements and other public areas in such form as approved by the city
council.
   C.    Space for certificates of approval by the planning commission, city
council, and city attorney in the following form or in a substantially similar
form:
Planning Commission Certification
At a regular meeting of the PLANNING COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF HAWLEY,
MINNESOTA, on the _____ day of ________, 200__, the plat of _________________
to the City of Hawley, Clay County, Minnesota, was duly recommended for
approval to the City Council.
__________________________________________________________________
________________, PLANNING COMMISSION CHAIR
City of Hawley, Minnesota
CITY COUNCIL CERTIFICATION
At a regular meeting of the CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF HAWLEY, MINNESOTA, on
the _____ day of _____ 200__, the plat of ____________________ to the City of
Hawley, Clay County, Minnesota, was duly approved.
___________________________________________________________________
_________________, MAYOR
City of Hawley, Minnesota
CITY ATTORNEY APPROVAL
____________________________________________________________________
_______________, CITY ATTORNEY
City of Hawley, Minnesota
(Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
CHAPTER 5
SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS
SECTION:
12-5-1: Conformity With Hawley's Comprehensive Plan And Zoning Ordinance
12-5-2: Land Requirements
12-5-3: Blocks
12-5-4: Lots
12-5-5: Streets
12-5-6: Cul-De-Sac Streets
12-5-7: Street Widths
12-5-8: Alleys
12-5-9: Sidewalks
12-5-10: Boulevard Trees
12-5-11: Drainage
12-5-12: Easements
12-5-13: Protected Areas
12-5-14: Park Land Dedication Requirements
12-5-15: Dedication Of Storm Water Retention Areas
12-5-16: Minimum Design Features
12-5-17: Preliminary Construction Plans
12-5-1: CONFORMITY WITH HAWLEY'S COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND ZONING ORDINANCE:
A proposed subdivision must conform to the city's comprehensive plan,
including, but not limited to, its goals and objectives and short and long
range implementation plan. Additionally, a proposed subdivision must conform to
similar documents, and related polices adopted by the city council, and to the
Hawley zoning ordinance. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-5-2: LAND REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Land should be suited to the purpose for which it is to be subdivided.
No plan will be approved if the site is not suitable for the purposes proposed
by reason of potential flooding, topography, adverse soil, or other
environmental limitations.
   B.    Land subject to hazards to life, health, or property will not be
subdivided until all such hazards have been eliminated unless adequate
safeguards against such hazards are provided by the subdivision plan.
   C.    Proposed subdivisions will be coordinated with surrounding
jurisdictions and/or neighborhoods, so that the city as a whole may develop
efficiently and harmoniously. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-5-3: BLOCKS:
   A.    Block Area: Block length and width, or acreage within bounding
streets, must accommodate the size of residential lots required in the area by
the zoning ordinance and provide for convenient access, circulation control,
and safety of street traffic.
   B.    Block Length: In general, intersecting streets should be provided at
such intervals so as to serve cross traffic adequately and to meet existing
streets.
   C.    Block Width: The width of the block should normally be sufficient to
allow two (2) tiers of lots of minimum depth as required by the zoning
ordinance except when adjoining a stream, railroad, or arterial or where one
tier of lots is necessary because of topographic conditions. Blocks intended
for business or industrial uses should be of such width as to be considered
most suitable for their respective use, including adequate space for off street
parking, deliveries, and loading. Such facilities should be provided with safe
and convenient limited access to the street system. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-5-4: LOTS:
   A.    Area: The minimum lot area, width, and depth should not be less than
that established by the city zoning ordinance in effect at the time of adoption
of the final plat.
   B.    Side Lot Lines: Side lines of lots should be at near right angles to
street lines, radial to curved street lines, or radial to accommodate site
specific topographic conditions.
   C.    Frontage On Two Streets: Double frontage (lots with frontage on 2
parallel or nonintersecting streets) should not be permitted except where lots
back on arterial streets or highways, or where topographic or other conditions
render subdividing otherwise unreasonable.
   D.    Driveway Restrictions: In the case where a proposed plat is adjacent
to a limited access highway, other major highway, principal or minor arterial
streets, no direct vehicular access from individual lots to such streets or
roads will be permitted. In cases of limited access, regular access control to
be shown on plat. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-5-5: STREETS:
   A.    Standards: Proposed streets must conform to city, county, and state
standards which have been prepared, adopted, and/or filed as prescribed by law.
   B.    Topography: Streets should be logically related to the topography, so
as to produce usable lots and reasonable grades.
   C.    Access: Access must be given to all lots and portions of the tract in
a subdivision and to adjacent unsubdivided parcels unless the topography
clearly indicates that such connection is not feasible. Reserved strips and
landlocked areas must not be created. The arrangement of streets in new
subdivisions should make provision for the appropriate continuation of existing
streets in adjoining areas. Access should be provided in the form of an
easement to allow a future access to areas abutting a proposed subdivision that
are vacant, and have the potential for future platting.
   D.    Streets To Boundaries At Subdivision: Where adjoining areas are not
subdivided, but in the future may be subdivided, the arrangement of streets in
a new subdivision should make provision for the proper projection of streets
into adjoining areas by carrying the new streets to the boundaries of the new
subdivision at appropriate locations. A temporary turnaround facility may be
required at the closed end, in conformance with cul-de-sac size requirements.
Temporary facilities may require curb and gutter as by the construction
standards established by the city.
   E.    Arterial And Collector Streets: The arrangement of arterial and
collector streets should be considered in their relation to the reasonable
circulation of traffic, topographic conditions, runoff of storm water, public
convenience and safety, and in their appropriate relation to the proposed uses
of the area to be served.
   F.    Provisions For Resubdivision Of Large Lots And Parcels: When a tract
is subdivided into larger than normal building lots or parcels which have the
potential for further subdivision, such lots or parcels should be so arranged
as to permit the logical location and openings of future streets and
appropriate resubdivision, with provision for adequate utility connections for
such resubdivision.
   G.    Dead End Streets: Dead end streets will be prohibited, except as
stated in subsection D of this section.
   H.    Private Streets: Private streets are prohibited, except in the case of
a planned unit development and/or approval of the city council. No public
street improvement will be approved for any private street.
   I.    Major Arterial Or Railroad Right Of Way: Where a subdivision abuts, or
contains an existing or planned major arterial or a railroad right of way, a
street approximately parallel to such arterial and right of way (either
frontage or backage) may be required for the preservation of access control,
reducing as best possible the conflict between through and local traffic. Such
service streets should be located at a distance from the major arterial or
railroad right of way with due regard for the preservation of approach grades,
future grade separations, and existing or proposed access control measures.
This measure applies to all types of development, as needed by the city.
   J.    Street Design: The street design should not be such as to cause
hardship to owners of adjoining property in platting their own land and
providing convenient access to it. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-5-6: CUL-DE-SAC STREETS:
Cul-de-sac streets permanently designed as such, should not exceed six hundred
feet (600') in length, including a terminal turnaround which must be provided
at the closed end, with a right of way radius of not less than sixty feet
(60'); and with a paved radius of not less than forty eight feet (48'). The
length will be measured along the centerline from the center point of the
nearest intersection to the center point of the cul-de-sac. (Ord. 232, 12-2-
2002)
12-5-7: STREET WIDTHS:
   A.    Widths: Street right of way widths will be as determined in the
comprehensive plan, on the official street map, and where applicable, must
conform to county and state standards for trunk highways and functionally
classed roadways. In cases where no standard is provided, the following
standards will apply:
 
Classification Roadway          Roadway Section  Roadway Width  Right Of Way
               Responsibility                    (ft)           (ft)
                                4 to 6 lanes
Principal      Federal and      plus turn lanes,
arterial       state            strict access    72 to 96       150 to 200
                                control, limited
                                parking
                                2 to 4 lanes
                                plus turn lanes,
Minor arterial State and county limited access   44 to 72       100 to 125
                                control, limited
                                parking
                                2 lanes, turn
                                lanes at key
Collector      City             locations,       36 to 44       80 to 100
                                access allowed,
                                parking allowed
                                2 lanes, access
Local          City             allowed, parking 36 to 44       70 to 80
                                allowed
Cul-de-sac                      2 lanes, access
streets        City             allowed, parking 36 to 44       70 to 80
                                allowed
Cul-de-sac                      2 lanes, access
turnaround     City             allowed, parking 48             80
                                allowed
 
   B.    Street Intersections: Insofar as practical, streets should intersect
at right angles. In no case will the angle formed by the intersection of two
(2) streets be less than seventy five degrees (75°). Intersections having more
than four (4) corners will be prohibited.
   C.    Tangents: A tangent of at least one hundred feet (100') must be
introduced between reverse curves on arterial and collector streets.
   D.    Deflections: When connecting street lines deflect from each other at
one point by more than ten degrees (10°), they should normally be connected by
a curve with a radius adequate to ensure a sight distance of not less than five
hundred feet (500') for arterials, three hundred feet (300') for collectors,
and two hundred feet (200') for all other streets. The planning commission may
allow greater or lesser sight distances.
   E.    Street Intersection Jogs: Street intersection jogs with centerline
offsets of less than one hundred fifty feet (150') are prohibited.
   F.    Access To Limited Access Highways: Access to such limited access
highways should normally be at intervals of not less than one-fourth (1/4) mile
and through existing and established crossroads where possible. Access to all
trunk highways will be subject to the access management standards established
by the Minnesota department of transportation.
   G.    Platting Of Small Tracts: Any applicant with the intention to ask for
access to a limited access highway, or a state trunk highway is encouraged to
approach the city during the sketch plan submittal.
In the platting of small tracts fronting on a limited access highway where
there is no convenient access to existing entrances and where the creations of
a new access would be closer than one-quarter (1/4) mile from an existing
access point, or contrary to access management standards established by the
Minnesota department of transportation (whichever is more restrictive), a
temporary entrance permit may be granted. In such cases, it is recommended
provisions be made for the connection of planned roads to neighboring lands
through the creation of, or extension of, an existing service road, frontage
road, or backage road.
   H.    Half Streets: Half streets are prohibited except where the dedication
of the other half is imminent due to the probable subdivision of abutting
property. The probable length of time elapsing before dedication of the
remainder must be considered in this decision.
   I.    Inadequate Width: Where a subdivision abuts or contains an existing
street of inadequate width, sufficient additional width will be provided to
meet the above standards.
   J.    Additional Widths: Additional right of way and roadway widths may be
required to promote public safety and convenience when special conditions
require it.
   K.    Restriction Of Access: Access of local streets onto arterial and
collector streets will be discouraged at intervals of less than five hundred
feet (500').
   L.    Corner Radii: Roadways of street intersections will be rounded by a
radius of not less than twenty feet (20'). Corners at entrances to the
turnaround portions of cul-de-sacs must be rounded by a radius of not less than
twenty feet (20').
   M.    Curb And Gutter: Concrete curb and gutter will be included as part of
the required street surface improvement and will be designed for installation
along both sides of all roadways. Mountable curbing is allowed within
residential subdivisions. Barrier curb and gutter may be required in multiple-
family, commercial, and industrial subdivisions approved by the city. Curb
specifications outside of residential neighborhoods will be considered on a
case by case basis, as determined by the city.
   N.    Street Designation: Whenever practical, streets will be designated
numerically. The following policies may be generally applied when designating
awkward street configurations:
      1.    Cul-de-sacs less than three hundred feet (300') will assume the
designation of the street they abut.
      2.    No street names will be used that duplicate or may be confused with
the names of existing streets, unless a new street is a continuation of, or in
alignment with, the existing or platted street. In that event, it must bear the
same name of the existing or platted street. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002; amd. Ord.
286, 5-3-2021)
12-5-8: ALLEYS:
   A.    Location Permitted: Alleys or service drives may be provided in
commercial and industrial districts.
   B.    Widths: The right of way width of all alleys or service drives must be
at least twenty feet (20').
   C.    Grades: All centerline gradients in alleys must be at least 0.3
percent and must not exceed six percent (6%). If not paved, the centerline
gradient must be at least one percent (1%). (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-5-9: SIDEWALKS:
Sidewalks are not required by this section; however proposed sidewalks should
follow the guidelines set forth in the city of Hawley sidewalk ordinance, title
7, chapters 1 and 6 of this code. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-5-10: BOULEVARD TREES:
See title 7, chapters 3, 4, and 6 of this code. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-5-11: DRAINAGE:
A complete and adequate drainage system design approved by the city engineer
will be required for all subdivisions. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-5-12: EASEMENTS:
All easements must be dedicated by appropriate language on the final plat as
required by law and provisions of this section.
   A.    Utility Easements: Easements of a minimum of ten feet (10') on front
lot lines, twenty feet (20') centered on the rear lot lines, and ten feet (10')
wide centered on the side lot lines, must be provided for public and private
utilities where necessary as determined by the city. Twenty foot (20') wide
easements may be required if city water and/or sewer services are involved.
When it is not practical to center easements, the fully required easement width
may be required along one property line. Said easements must have continuity of
alignment from block to block. The easements, when approved, must not
thereafter be changed without the approval of the city council.
   B.    Drainage: Easements must be provided along each side of the centerline
of any natural watercourse or drainage channel to a width sufficient to provide
proper maintenance and protection and to provide for storm water runoff. Where
necessary, drainage easements corresponding with lot lines must be provided.
Such easements for drainage purposes will not be less than twenty feet (20') in
width or a width equal to the required side yard setback established by the
respective zoning district in which the property is located, whichever is
least.
   C.    Sight: Sight easements beyond required zoning setback regulations may
be required by the city or state highway department to protect major
intersections on the state trunk highway system. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-5-13: PROTECTED AREAS:
Where land proposed for subdivision is deemed environmentally sensitive by the
city, due to the existence of wetlands, drainage courses, watercourses, and/or
floodable areas, the design of said subdivision must clearly reflect all
necessary measures of protection to ensure against adverse environmental
impact. Applicants should also refer to the city of Hawley's wetland ordinance,
title 11, chapters 1 and 2 of this code. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-5-14: PARK LAND DEDICATION REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    General Requirements: As a prerequisite to residential plat approval,
and at the sole determination by the planning commission, applicants must
dedicate land for parks, playgrounds, public open spaces, trails, or bikeways
and/or must make a cash dedication to the city.
      1.    Planning commission will confer with the park board, at the time
the preliminary plat is under consideration, to secure their recommendation as
to the location of any property that should be dedicated to the public, such as
parks, playgrounds, or other public property.
      2.    Where private open space for park and recreation purposes is
provided in a proposed subdivision, such areas may be used for credit, at the
discretion of the planning commission, against the requirement of dedication
for park and recreation purposes provided the planning commission finds it is
in the public interest to do so.
      3.    The planning commission may elect, at its sole discretion, to
receive a combination of cash and land dedication.
      4.    During preliminary plat submission, the applicant must provide the
planning commission with the number and type of residential units which will
occupy the platted areas. If during development the number or type of units is
altered, the applicant will be required to make a cash dedication to account
for the increased density of the project. However, if the number of units is
decreased, the applicant will not be refunded that amount of cash or land
dedicated during the original approval.
      5.    Property being replatted with the same number of units will be
exempt from all park land dedication requirements. If the number of units is
increased, or if land outside the previously recorded plat is added, then the
park land dedication and/or park cash contributions will be based on the
additional units added to the plat.
   B.    Park Land Dedication: In all new residential subdivisions, land must
be dedicated for public recreation use or open space as established by the
planning commission. The dedicated land must be in addition to property
dedicated for streets, alleys, easements, water detention, or other public
ways. The amount of land dedicated will be based on the type of development;
according to the following:
         Minimum Area Dedicated
      Type Of Dwelling Unit   Per Dwelling Unit
   Single- or two-family   700 square feet
   Multiple-family       500 square feet
      1.    Land to be dedicated must be reasonably suitable for its intended
use as determined by the planning commission and must be at a location
convenient to the public to be served. Factors used in evaluating the adequacy
of proposed park and recreation areas must include size, shape, topography,
geology, hydrology, tree cover, access, and location.
      2.    When land is dedicated and deeded to the city for park purposes, it
will be the responsibility of the city to maintain such dedicated property.
      3.    The preliminary plat must show the location and dimensions of all
areas to be dedicated in this manner.
      4.    When a proposed park, playground, recreational area, or other
public ground has been indicated on the city's official map or within the
comprehensive plan and is located in whole or in part within a proposed plat,
it must be dedicated to the appropriate governmental unit.
      5.    Land area conveyed or dedicated to the city will not be used in
calculating density requirements of the city zoning ordinance.
      6.    Wetlands, ponding areas, and drainageways accepted by the planning
commission may not be considered in the park land and/or cash contribution to
the city.
   C.    Payment In Lieu Of Dedication: When, in the opinion of the planning
commission and at its sole discretion, it is impractical, inappropriate, and/or
in the best interest of the city for a subdivision to not make a dedication of
land for public use, the applicant will be required to pay a cash fee based on
the type and number of dwelling units. Cash payments in lieu of park land
dedication will be made in accordance with the following:
         Minimum Area Dedicated
      Type Of Dwelling Unit   Per Dwelling Unit
   Single- or two-family   $500.00
   Multiple-family   250.00
      1.    Park cash contributions are to be calculated and paid in full at
the time of final plat approval.
      2.    Cash contributions for parks and trails must be deposited in either
the city's park fund or similar fund and will only be used for acquisitions and
development of future parks and trails or development of existing sites as
determined by the planning commission. Additionally, said funds may be utilized
anywhere within the park trail system.
   D.    Purchase And Assessment Of Park Land: The requirement for park land
dedication or payment in lieu of dedication may be waived by the city when an
agreement incorporated into a developer's agreement has been executed between
the city and developer. Such agreement must require the developer to petition
for park improvements to be assessed against the property owned by the
developer, which may include property outside the current plat. The agreement
must set forth the land to be purchased by the city for park purposes and the
purchase price for the land. In addition, the agreement must set forth the
general type of improvements to be included in the petition for park
improvements, as well as the maximum amount of money that may be assessed. Such
maximum amount may be based on a sliding scale based on the density of the
development. The city may enter into such an agreement only if the city council
determines that such an agreement results in a more favorable result to the
city than the imposition of the standard park land dedication or payment in
lieu of dedication requirements. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-5-15: DEDICATION OF STORM WATER RETENTION AREAS:
Based on the city engineer's requirements and upon approval by the council, the
applicant will be required to dedicate to the public land proposed to be
subdivided for storm water retention areas. The required dedication may be
considered in addition to the park land dedication required by the previous
section. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-5-16: MINIMUM DESIGN FEATURES:
The design features set forth in this chapter are minimum requirements. The
city may impose additional or more stringent requirements concerning lot size,
streets, and overall design as deemed appropriate considering the property
being subdivided based upon site considerations and the comprehensive plan.
(Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-5-17: PRELIMINARY CONSTRUCTION PLANS:
Applicant will be required to furnish the city of Hawley and city engineer with
copies of the preliminary plat in the form required. The city engineer shall,
upon direction from the city council, prepare preliminary specification plans
for local improvements for the new subdivision. This report shall be conforming
in all respects with the standards and ordinances of the city, must show if
utilities can be installed in a feasible manner with the proposed street and
lot proposals and with the existing land conditions, and may require soil
borings and or elevation markings from the applicant. All engineer's costs will
be assessed as a project cost to the applicant. Such plans must be submitted to
the city council and planning commission for information and review prior to
final approval of a plat. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
CHAPTER 6
SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS AND IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURES
SECTION:
12-6-1: Improvements And Development Agreements
12-6-2: Monuments
12-6-3: Local Improvement Requirements
12-6-4: Construction Plans, Inspection And Warranty
12-6-1: IMPROVEMENTS AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:
   A.    Improvements:
      1.    Local Improvements: The city council has determined that all local
improvements to construct streets, water mains, sewer mains, storm sewer
systems, street lighting, etc., are essential items that the city must maintain
indefinitely. Thus, all local improvements must be designed, bid, and
constructed by the city of Hawley to ensure the quality and integrity of the
improvements. Local improvements include the following facilities: storm sewer,
sanitary sewer, water mains, street surfacing, curb and gutter, sidewalk and
driveway approaches and sewer and water connections from city mains to property
lines.
      2.    Petition: The applicant must agree to follow the procedure outlined
in Minnesota statutes section 429.031 to petition the city of Hawley for
improvements. The city will require the petition for improvements to be done in
feasible increments of lots to: best utilize the benefits of the bidding
process, allow for looping of water lines, and allow for the storm sewer system
to be installed, etc. At time of petition, proof must be shown that the proper
monumentation has been set per section
12-6-2 of this chapter.
      3.    Estimate: Prior to the bid award for any improvements, the
applicant will be given an accurate estimate of the total assessable cost of
the project. The applicant must in writing agree to provide thirty percent
(30%) of the total assessable cost of the improvement up front to the city in
the form of an irrevocable letter of credit/escrow.
      4.    Agreement Of Assessment: The applicant must sign an agreement to
allow the assessment of the remaining cost of local improvements be assessed
against benefited properties, and sign a statement to "expressly waive
objection to any irregularity with regard to the said initial improvement
assessments and any claim that the amount thereof levied against the owner's
property is excessive, together with all rights to appeal in the courts". The
agreement must be binding on all current and subsequent owners of the
properties improved.
      5.    Assessments: The amount of the special assessments to be assessed
against the property for local improvements shall be in accord with state law.
The developer, at the time of time of assessment, shall determine the
distribution the total assessments, by lot. Upon transfer of ownership,
liability of previously determined assessment becomes the responsibility of the
owner, and so on.
   B.    Development Agreement And Guarantee:
      1.    Agreement: Before the final subdivision plat is approved, all
applicants shall be required to dedicate those public areas (i.e., street,
park, detention, etc.) to the local government on the plat, free and clear of
all liens and encumbrance. The subdivision development agreement shall contain
such other terms and conditions agreed to by the applicants and the city
council.
      2.    Conditions To Run: Before a final plat is approved by the city, the
subdivider of the land covered by the proposed plat shall pay all applicable
fees as established by the city, and enter into a development agreement. The
subdivision development agreement shall provide that the terms and conditions
contained in the agreement shall run with the land and bind all successors,
heirs, and assignees of the subdivider. The agreement shall set forth that the
subdivider will cause no private construction to be made on the lands within
said plat, nor shall the subdivider file or cause to be filed any application
for zoning permits for such construction.
      3.    Adoption And Recordation: The subdivision development agreement
will be adopted by the city council, pursuant to applicable state and local
laws and shall be recorded in the office of the Clay County recorder.
      4.    Approval: No final plat shall be approved by the city without first
receiving a report signed by the city attorney certifying that the executed
documents described therein together with the agreements and documents required
under this section meet the requirements of the city. The city clerk shall also
certify that all required fees have been paid by the applicant prior to
approval of the final plat. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-6-2: MONUMENTS:
   A.    Location: Monuments must be placed at all block and lot corners, angle
points, points of curves in streets, and at intermediate points as will be
required by the city.
      1.    Specification: Block corner monuments and permanent control markers
must consist of a number 5 deformed reinforcement rod, a minimum of thirty
inches (30") long and are to be placed in concrete six inches (6") in diameter.
All other monuments must consist of a number 5 deformed reinforcement rod, a
minimum of thirty inches (30") long.
      2.    Depth: All monuments are to be placed at least eighteen inches
(18") below the graded surface. Monuments must be in place at the time of
petition for local improvements.
   B.    Easements: Stakes showing the locations of easements must be provided
by the subdivider upon request of the city. The stakes must be wood lathes and
will be used only to ensure the proper location of utilities on the easements.
The stakes must not be intended to be permanent survey monuments. (Ord. 232,
12-2-2002)
12-6-3: LOCAL IMPROVEMENT REQUIREMENTS:
   A.    Specifications And Supervision: All improvements or utilities
installed shall be in accordance with the specifications approved by the
council and shall be done under the supervision of authorized city personnel
(i.e., grading, paving, concrete curb and gutter, boulevards, street signs,
streetlights, sidewalks, water main, drainage plans, fire hydrants, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, house services, etc.).
   B.    Plans And Specifications: Plans and specifications for the local
improvements will be prepared by the city engineer and will conform to all
municipal standards as well as all public utility standards. Cost for
engineering services, including reproducible as built drawings showing all
utilities and improvements, will be assessed to the applicant. (Ord. 232, 12-2-
2002)
12-6-4: CONSTRUCTION PLANS, INSPECTION AND WARRANTY:
Preliminary construction plans for the required improvements, conforming in all
respects with the standards and ordinances of the city must be prepared and
will be assessed as a project cost to the applicant by the city engineer who is
registered in the state of Minnesota, and said plans must contain professional
certification. Such plans together with the quantities of construction items
must be submitted to the city for approval and for an estimate of the total
costs of the required improvements. Upon approval, such plans will become a
part of the required written agreement. The tracings of the plans approved by
the engineer, plus two (2) prints, must be furnished to the city to be filed as
a public record. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
CHAPTER 7
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
SECTION:
12-7-1: Administration
12-7-2: Amendments
12-7-3: Zoning Permits
12-7-4: Violations And Penalty
12-7-5: Resubdivision Of Land
12-7-6: Variances
12-7-7: Enforcement
12-7-1: ADMINISTRATION:
This title will be administered by the city council or its delegates. (Ord.
232, 12-2-2002)
12-7-2: AMENDMENTS:
The provisions of this title may be amended by action of the city council.
(Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-7-3: ZONING PERMITS:
No zoning permit may be issued for any construction, enlargement, alteration,
repair, demolition, or moving of any building or structure on any lot or parcel
until all the requirements of these regulations have been fully met. (Ord. 232,
12-2-2002)
12-7-4: VIOLATIONS AND PENALTY:
   A.    Sale Of Lots From Unrecorded Plats: It is a misdemeanor to sell,
trade, or otherwise convey any lot or parcel of land as a part of, or in
conformity with, any plan, plat, or replat of any subdivision or area located
within the jurisdiction of this title unless the plan, plat, or replat has
first been recorded in the office of the Clay County recorder.
   B.    Recording Unapproved Plats: It is unlawful for a person to record in
any public office any plans, plats of land laid out in building lots and
streets, alleys, or other portions of the same intended to be dedicated to
public or private use, or for the use of purchasers or owners of lots fronting
on or adjacent thereto, and located within the jurisdiction of these chapters
of this title, unless the same bear thereon, by endorsement or otherwise, the
approval of the city council.
   C.    Penalty: Any person violating any of the provisions of this title may
be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day during which compliance is delayed or such
violation continues or occurs will constitute a separate offense and may be
prosecuted as such. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-7-5: RESUBDIVISION OF LAND:
   A.    Procedure Or Resubdivision: All plats resubdivided or vacated shall
follow the same procedure as an original subdivision plat.
   B.    Procedure For Subdivision Where Future Resubdivision Is Indicated:
Wherever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat shows one or
more lots containing more than twice the minimum lot size required by the
zoning ordinance, and there are indications that such lots will eventually be
resubdivided into building sites, the planning commission and city council may
require that such parcel of land allow for the future opening of streets and
the ultimate extension of adjacent streets, and indicate building site
locations which will allow the future subdivision of the lots and the extension
of the streets. Easements providing for the future opening and extension of
such streets may be made a requirement of the plat.
   C.    Zoning Permit: No zoning permit shall be issued for any parcel unless
it has been platted according to these regulations, and is properly zoned for
the proposed use. This provision does not prohibit the sale of a portion of a
previously platted lot. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-7-6: VARIANCES:
   A.    General: The city may find that extraordinary hardships or practical
difficulties may result from strict compliance with these regulations and/or
the purposes of these regulations may be served to a greater extent by an
alternative proposal. It may approve variances to these subdivision regulations
so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured,
provided that such variance shall not have the effect of nullifying the intent
and purpose of these regulations. The city shall not approve variances unless
it shall make findings based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific
case that:
      1.    The granting of the variance would be beneficial to the public
safety, health, or welfare, and not injurious to other property located
adjacent to the proposed modification.
      2.    The conditions upon which the request for a variance is based are
unique to the property for which the variance is sought, and are not applicable
generally to other property.
      3.    Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the specific property involved, a particular
hardship to the owner would result, as distinguished from a mere inconvenience,
if the strict letter of these regulations are carried out.
      4.    The variance is consistent with provisions of the zoning ordinance
and proper development of the area.
   B.    Conditions: In approving variances, the city may require such
conditions as will, in its judgment, substantially secure the objectives of the
standards or requirements of these regulations.
   C.    Procedures: A petition for any such variance shall be submitted on the
city form and with appropriate fees by the subdivider for the consideration of
the planning commission. The petition shall state fully the grounds for the
application and all of the facts relied upon by the petitioner. Action will be
taken to grant or deny the variance within sixty (60) days of its receipt by
the planning commission. (Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
12-7-7: ENFORCEMENT:
   A.    Enforcement:
      1.    It shall be the duty of the zoning official to enforce these
regulations and to bring to the attention of the city attorney any violations
or lack of compliance herewith.
      2.    No zoning permit shall be issued for any lot or parcel of land in a
proposed subdivision before a plat of such subdivision has been approved by the
planning commission and city council, and filed with the county register of
deeds.
      3.    No zoning permit shall be issued for the construction of any
building or structure located on a lot or plat subdivided or sold in violation
of the provisions of these regulations.
   B.    Civil Enforcement: Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken by
law or in equity to prevent any violation of these regulations, to prevent
unlawful construction, to recover damages, to restrain, correct, or abate a
violation, to prevent illegal occupancy of a building, structure or premises.
(Ord. 232, 12-2-2002)
