HECTOR, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 31.02, passed 4-10-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“city code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”,
or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section headings do not
constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code”. Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01”. Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provision, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.03)
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
(Prior Code, § 10.04)
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Hector, Minnesota. The term CITY when used in this code
may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE, or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. Renville County.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Prior Code, § 10.05)
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Prior Code, § 10.06)
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Prior Code, § 10.07)
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
(Prior Code, § 10.08)
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   (A)   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of
any words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention
of the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can
be attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the
manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the
correct words were contained in the text as originally published.
   (B)   No alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists
regarding the nature or extent of the error.
(Prior Code, § 10.09)
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
(Prior Code, § 10.11)
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
(Prior Code, § 10.12)
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
(Prior Code, § 10.13)
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.14)
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.15)
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.16)
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into, or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
(Prior Code, § 10.17)
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Administrator for public inspection. The Administrator shall provide a copy for
sale for a reasonable charge.
(Prior Code, § 10.18)
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this Minnesota
Basic Code, all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes
adopted by reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted
by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this
code was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
(Prior Code, § 10.19)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be a sentence of not more than 90 days
or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
   (C)   In either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs
of prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
(Prior Code, § 10.99)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   CITY POLICIES
      
34.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
   
30.02   Presiding officer
   
30.03   Minutes
   
30.04   Order of business
   
30.05   Quorum and voting
   
30.06   Ordinances, resolutions, motions, petitions, and communications
   
30.07   Committees
   
30.08   Suspension or amendment of rules
   
30.09   Compensation
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the
second Monday of each month at 6:00 p.m. Any regular meeting falling upon a
holiday shall be held on the next following business day at the same time and
place, or at a time and place decided by the Council with at least one
published notice in the designated official newspaper. All meetings, including
special and adjourned meetings, shall be held in the City Community Center, or
as designated by the City Council with notice of the place of meeting to be
posted at the City Hall.
   (B)   Special meetings. 
      (1)   The Mayor or any two members of the Council may call a special
meeting of the Council upon at least 24 hours’ written notice to each member of
the Council. This notice shall be delivered personally to each member or shall
be left at the member’s usual place of residence with some responsible person.
      (2)   At least three days before the meeting, written notice shall be
posted on the bulletin board of the city and shall be mailed or otherwise
delivered to each person who has filed a written request for notice of special
meetings. As an alternative to mailing or otherwise delivering notice to
persons who have requested notice, notice may be published once at least three
days before the meeting in the official newspaper.
   (C)   Initial meetings. At the first regular Council meeting in January of
each year, the Council shall:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose one of the Council members as acting Mayor, who shall
perform the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor
from the city, or in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a
successor has been appointed and qualified; and
      (4)   Appoint such officers and employees and such members of boards,
commissions, and committees as may be necessary.
   (D)   Public meetings. All Council meetings, including special and adjourned
meetings and meetings of Council committees, shall be open to the public,
except the Council may close a meeting as provided for by the Open Meeting Law,
M.S. Chapter 13D, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 30.01) (Ord. 195, passed 4-10-1995; Ord. 2019-242, passed 1-13-
2020)
§ 30.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council.
In the absence of the Mayor, the acting Mayor shall preside. In the absence of
both, the Administrator shall call the meeting to order and shall preside until
the Council members present at the meeting choose one of their number to act
temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the
rules of procedure herein prescribed, and determine without debate, subject to
the final decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and
order. Except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the
proceedings of the Council shall be conducted in accordance with Robert’s Rules
of Order, Revised.
   (C)   Appeal procedure. Any member may appeal to the Council from a ruling
of the presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may speak once
solely on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain his or
her ruling, but no other Council member shall participate in the discussion.
The appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the members
present, exclusive of the presiding officer.
   (D)   Rights of presiding officer. The presiding officer may make motions,
second motions, or speak on any question, except that on demand of any Council
member he or she shall vacate the chair and designate a Council member to
preside temporarily.
(Prior Code, § 30.02)
§ 30.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Who keeps. Minutes of each Council meeting shall be kept by the
Administrator. In the absence of the Administrator, the presiding officer shall
appoint a Secretary pro tem. Ordinances, resolutions, and claims need not be
recorded in full in the minutes if they appear in other permanent records of
the Administrator and can be accurately identified from the description given
in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval. The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten
form, shall be signed by the Administrator, and copies thereof shall be
delivered to each Council member as soon as practicable after the meeting. At
the next regular Council meeting following such delivery, approval of the
minutes shall be considered by the Council. The minutes need not be read aloud,
but the presiding officer shall call for any additions or corrections. If there
is no objection to a proposed addition or correction, it may be made without a
vote of the Council. If there is an objection, the Council shall vote upon the
addition or correction. If there are no additions or corrections, the minutes
shall stand approved.
(Prior Code, § 30.03)
§ 30.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the Council shall convene at the
time and place appointed therefor. Council business shall be conducted in the
following order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Roll call;
      (3)   Approval of minutes;
      (4)   Public hearings;
      (5)   Petitions, requests, and communications;
      (6)   Ordinances and resolutions;
      (7)   Reports of officers, boards, and committees;
      (8)   Unfinished business;
      (9)   New business;
      (10)   Miscellaneous; and
      (11)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Varying order. The order of business may be varied by the presiding
officer, but all public hearings shall be held at the time specified in the
notice of hearing.
   (C)   Agenda. An agenda of business for each regular Council meeting shall
be prepared and filed in the office of the Administrator. The agenda shall be
prepared in accordance with the order of business and copies thereof shall be
delivered to each Council member.
(Prior Code, § 30.04)
§ 30.05 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum. At all Council meetings, 50% of all the Council members
elected shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from time to time and the Council may punish
nonattendance by a fine not exceeding $25 for each absence from any meeting
unless a reasonable excuse is offered.
   (B)   Voting. The votes of the members on any question may be taken in any
manner which signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes
of the members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote
of each member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except for
payments of judgments, claims, and amounts fixed by statute. If any member is
present but does not vote, the minutes, as to his or her name, shall be marked
“Present--Not Voting”.
   (C)   Votes required. A majority vote of all members of the Council shall be
necessary for approval of any ordinance unless a larger number is required by
statute. Except as otherwise provided by statute, a majority vote of a quorum
shall prevail in all other cases.
(Prior Code, § 30.05)
§ 30.06 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS, AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Readings. Every ordinance and resolution shall be presented in
writing. Every ordinance shall receive two readings before the Council prior to
final adoption but shall not be read twice at the same meeting unless the rules
are suspended for that purpose. An ordinance or resolution need not be read in
full unless a member of the Council requests such a reading.
   (B)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the Administrator, and
filed by the Administrator in the ordinance or resolution book. Proof of
publication of every ordinance shall be attached and filed with the ordinance.
   (C)   Repeals and amendments. Every ordinance or resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or a section or subdivision thereof shall give
the number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or code number of the
ordinance or resolution to be repealed in whole or in part. Each ordinance or
resolution amending an existing ordinance or resolution or part thereof shall
set forth in full each amended section or subdivision as it will read with the
amendment.
   (D)   Motions, petitions, and communications. Every motion shall be stated
in full before it is submitted to a vote by the presiding officer and shall be
recorded in the minutes. Every petition or other communication addressed to the
Council shall be in writing and shall be read in full upon presentation to the
Council unless the Council dispenses with the reading. Each petition or other
communication shall be recorded in the minutes by title and filed with the
minutes in the office of the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 30.06)
§ 30.07 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committees designated. The Council may create such committees,
standing or special, as it deems necessary. Committees shall consist of as many
members and perform such duties as the Council may require.
   (B)   Membership. Each committee shall consist of at least one member of the
Council, and the Chairperson of each committee shall be designated by the Mayor
or elected by the committee at the Mayor’s discretion and Council approved.
Each committee member shall serve as appointed unless excused by a majority of
the members of the Council. If the committee does not provide otherwise,
committee meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson. The same
notice shall be given of committee meetings as for special meetings of the
Council, except that personal notice need not be given each member if the
committee so decides.
   (C)   Referral and reports. Any matter brought before the Council for
consideration may be referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate
committee or to a special committee appointed by the presiding officer for a
written report and recommendation before it is considered by the Council as a
whole. Each committee report shall be signed by a majority of the members and
shall be filed with the Administrator prior to the Council meeting at which it
is to be submitted. Minority reports may be submitted. Each committee shall act
promptly and faithfully on any matter referred to it.
(Prior Code, § 30.07)
§ 30.08 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended only by a two-thirds vote of the members
present and voting.
(Prior Code, § 30.08)
§ 30.09 COMPENSATION.
   The Council, by ordinance, shall from time to time establish the salaries of
the Mayor, Vice-Mayor, and Council members. No change in salaries shall take
effect until after the next succeeding regular city election after the
ordinance is adopted. In addition to these salaries, the Mayor and all Council
members shall be entitled to an amount determined by the City Council per diem,
plus other expenses and a mileage rate as established by the IRS for out-of-
town meetings.
(Prior Code, § 30.09) (Ord. 229, passed 10-9-2006; Ord. 30.09, passed 8-11-
2014)
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS
Section
   
31.01   Abolishing the office of City Administrator and establishing the office
of City Clerk/Treasurer
   
31.02   Combining the offices of City Clerk and City Treasurer
§ 31.01 ABOLISHING THE OFFICE OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR AND ESTABLISHING THE OFFICE
OF CITY CLERK/TREASURER.
   (A)   The office of City Administrator for the city is abolished.
   (B)   The city establishes the office of City Clerk/Treasurer. The person
designated as City Clerk/Treasurer shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Send out notice of each regular and special election, record the
election procedure, and notify officials of their elections and appointments to
office and certify to County Auditor all election results;
      (2)   Keep minute books with all proceedings of Council meetings and keep
ordinance book up to date;
      (3)   Keep an account book to enter all money transactions of the city,
including dates and amounts of all receipts and person from whom money was
received and all orders drawn upon the Treasurer with their payee as object;
      (4)   Act as Clerk/Treasurer and Bookkeeper of the city;
      (5)   Act as custodian of the city seal and records and sign all official
papers and post and publish such notices, ordinances, and resolutions as may be
required;
      (6)   Receive fees allowed by law to the City Clerk/Treasurer, but
Council requires the City Clerk/Treasurer to pay such fees into the City
Treasury;
      (7)   Provide a financial report, statement of tax collection, and
statement of outstanding bonds and orders at the end of every year;
      (8)   Receive and safely keep all monies belonging to the city;
      (9)   Pay out money only upon written order of Mayor or such other
officers or independent boards or commissions as authorized to use orders;
      (10)   Deliver to successor all books, papers, and money belonging to the
city;
      (11)   Report to Council immediately after the close of the calendar year
a report for public inspection on the balances, receipts, and disbursements by
funds for the year;
      (12)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall supervise the activities of all
municipal department heads and personnel of the city and the administration of
municipal policy with authority to effectively recommend their employment or
removal. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall handle all personnel matters for the
city in conjunction with the policy established by the City Council;
      (13)   Prepare all reports in a timely manner;
      (14)   Be responsible for factual determination and execution of Council
policies;
      (15)   Make purchases and let contracts, subject to approval of City
Council;
      (16)   Oversee long- and short-term departmental planning;
      (17)   Organize and direct work load;
      (18)   Report to Council and general public;
      (19)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall attend and participate in all
meetings of the City Council. He or she shall be responsible for preparation of
the City Council agenda and recommend to the City Council such measures as he
or she shall deem necessary for the welfare of the citizens and efficient
administration of the city. He or she shall attend, at his or her discretion,
or at the direction of the City Council, other committee and commission
meetings;
      (20)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall prepare the annual fiscal budget,
capital improvement plan, and shall report the budget status and administrative
status on a regular basis for the City Council. He or she shall maintain
financial guidelines for the city within the scope of his or her
responsibilities, submit reports to the City Council on the financial condition
of the municipal accounts, and make sure the annual financial statement is
prepared in accordance with state statutes;
      (21)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall coordinate municipal programs and
activities as they rectify the City Council. He or she shall monitor all
consultant and contract work performed for the city. He or she shall coordinate
the activities of the City Attorney;
      (22)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall work in cooperation with the City
Council's appointed attorney and engineer;
      (23)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall prepare news releases and develop
and discuss public relations with all concerned as required;
      (24)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall be informed regarding federal,
state, and county programs which affect the city. He or she shall consult with
officials of both public and private agencies as may be required;
      (25)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall inform the City Council in matters
dealing with administration of the city and prepare and submit to the City
Council for adoption an administrative code encompassing the details of
administrative procedures; and
      (26)   He or she shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by
law or required of him or her by ordinance or resolutions adopted by the City
Council.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Treasurer must have considerable knowledge of municipal
government operation, proper procedures, public relations, finances, purchasing
and all administrative requirements for proper municipal operation. He or she
must have knowledge of or ability to acquire full knowledge of all laws
affecting the city. He or she must provide harmonious relations with the
municipal employees and the general public. He or she must have the ability to
plan development, to collect material and analyze for reporting and to conduct
and implement standards of procedure, operation and organization. The City
Clerk/Treasurer shall possess an Associates Degree in Business, Administration
or related field, or two to four years in city government and/or related
management experience. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall be appointed for an
indefinite period by a majority of the City Council and may be removed from
office at will during a six month probationary period by a majority of the City
Council.
   (D)   In the absence of or temporary vacancy in the position of the City
Clerk/Treasurer, the title of Clerk/Treasurer and/or City Clerk/Treasurer as
written in all ordinances and/or resolutions adopted by the City Council shall
be replaced by the title of City Council.
(Ord. 172, passed 4-14-1992; Ord. 31.01, passed 4-10-2023)
§ 31.02 COMBINING THE OFFICES OF CITY CLERK AND CITY TREASURER.
   (A)   Pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 412.591, Subd. 2, as it
may be amended from time to time, the offices of City Clerk and Treasurer in
the city are combined in the office of City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   Beginning with the year in which this section becomes effective and
each year thereafter, there shall be an audit of the city's financial affairs
by the State Auditor or a Public Accountant in accordance with minimum auditing
procedures prescribed by the State Auditor.
(Prior Code, § 31.02) (Ord. 175, passed 10-13-1992; Ord. 31.02, passed 4-10-
2023)
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, BOARDS, AND COMMISSIONS
Section
Public Works Department
   
32.001   Director
   
32.002   Director responsibilities
   
32.003   Lien
Police Department
   
32.015   Establishment
   
32.016   Chief of Police
   
32.017   Duties of police
   
32.018   Uniform and badge
   
32.019   Extra police
Fire Department
   
32.030   Establishment
   
32.031   Election and confirmation
   
32.032   Duties of Fire Marshal
   
32.033   Duties of Chief
   
32.034   Records
   
32.035   Practice drills
   
32.036   Assistant Chief
   
32.037   Firefighters
   
32.038   Loss of membership
   
32.039   Compensation
   
32.040   Minimum pay
   
32.041   Present members
   
32.042   Relief association
   
32.043   Interference with Department
   
32.044   Mutual aid agreements
Planning Commission
   
32.055   Establishment
   
32.056   Composition
   
32.057   Organization, meetings, and the like
   
32.058   Powers and duties of Commission
   
32.059   Zoning ordinances; public hearings
Library Board
   
32.070   Establishment
   
32.071   Purpose
   
32.072   Library Board
   
32.073   Hector Public Library Trust Fund
Economic Development Authority
   
32.085   Recitals
   
32.086   Establishment of Economic Development Authority
   
32.087   Powers
Community Center
   
32.100   Management
   
32.101   Classification of users
   
32.102   Priority of use
   
32.103   Fee structure
   
32.104   Restrictions on use
   
32.105   Liability
 
   
32.999   Penalty
PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT
§ 32.001 DIRECTOR.
   A Public Works Department under the general control of the Council is
continued. The head of this Department shall be known as the Director of the
Public Works Department and shall be appointed by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.001)
§ 32.002 DIRECTOR RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   All streets, sidewalks, and alleys within the city, all parks and
parkways, the swimming pool, the cemetery, City Hall, the theater, the City
Community Center, the city garage, the city dump, and all city storm sewers
shall be under direct supervision of the Director of the Public Works
Department. In addition, it shall be the duty of the Director to see that the
laws of the state and the codes of the city relating to weed control and
eradication are observed. The Director shall have supervision of all labor and
custody of all property used and maintained for the purpose of such Department.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Director, whenever requested by the
Council, to file with the Administrator a report as to the condition of
streets, alleys, parks, parkways, storm sewers, and sidewalks and
recommendations as to any repair or improvement which are required. Water,
lights, sanitary sewer, and disposal responsibilities are also those of the
Public Works Department.
   (C)   The Director shall have under the general management and control of
the Council the supervision and management of the operation and maintenance of
water, lights, sanitary sewer, and disposal requirements for the city and of
all skilled and unskilled labor required for work related thereto, and the
Director shall be responsible for and have custody of all property for such
activities.
(Prior Code, § 32.002)
§ 32.003 LIEN.
   The city shall have the first lien upon all property where it has furnished
the services of any public utility, such as water, light, electrical, sanitary
sewer, or disposal for sums due to the city for the services, including labor
and materials furnished, whether the same is furnished at the request of the
owner, lessee, or occupant, and all such amounts remaining unpaid on October 1
of each year shall be levied and assessed by resolution of the Council against
each lot, piece, or parcel of land owned by the person to whom the service was
rendered or such lien may be foreclosed by appropriate action at law.
(Prior Code, § 32.003)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.015 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Police Department is continued. The head of the Department shall be known
as the Chief of Police and the number of additional members of the Department,
together with their ranks and titles, shall be determined by the Council by
resolution. The compensation to be paid members of the Police Department shall
be fixed by the Council. Members of the Department shall be appointed by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.015)
§ 32.016 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have supervision and control of the Police
Department and its members. The Chief of Police shall be responsible to the
Council for law enforcement and for property of the city used by the
Department. The Chief of Police shall be responsible for the proper training
and discipline of the members of the Department. The Chief of Police shall be
responsible for the keeping of adequate records and shall report to the Council
on the needs of the Department and its work.
   (B)   Every member of the Department subordinate to the Chief of Police
shall obey the instructions of the Chief of Police and any superior officer.
The Council shall designate one of the police officers as acting Chief of
Police, who shall have the powers and duties of the Chief of Police during his
or her absence or disability.
(Prior Code, § 32.016)
§ 32.017 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department shall enforce the ordinances and laws
applicable to the city, bring violators before the county court and make
complaints for offenses coming to their knowledge. Members of the Police
Department shall serve processes on behalf of the city and shall serve such
notices as may be required by the Council or other authority.
   (B)   When the city is not a party to the proceedings involved in the
process or notice, the officer shall collect the same fees as provided by law
for town constables. All such fees shall be paid into the City Treasury.
(Prior Code, § 32.017)
§ 32.018 UNIFORM AND BADGE.
   Each member of the Department shall, while on duty, wear a suitable badge
and uniform furnished by the city, except that the Chief of Police may
authorize the performance of specific duties while not in uniform. When a
member terminates his or her membership in the Department, the badge, uniform,
and all other property of the city shall be delivered immediately to the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.018)
§ 32.019 EXTRA POLICE.
   (A)   In case of riot or other law enforcement emergency, the Mayor may
appoint for a specified time as many special police officers as may be
necessary for the maintenance of law and order. During such term of
appointment, the special police officers shall have only those powers and
perform only those duties as shall be specifically assigned by the Chief of
Police.
   (B)   With regard to part-time police officers, the city specifically adopts
M.S. § 626.84, Subd. 1(f) and M.S. §§ 626.8461 through 626.8466, as they may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 32.019)
FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 32.030 ESTABLISHMENT.
   There is continued in this city a Volunteer Fire Department consisting of a
Chief, an Assistant Chief, a Fire Marshal and not fewer than 20, nor more than
30, firefighters.
(Prior Code, § 32.035)
§ 32.031 ELECTION AND CONFIRMATION.
   The Chief shall be elected by the Fire Department and approved by a majority
vote of the Council. The Assistant Chief, Fire Marshal, and new firefighters
shall be elected by the Fire Department and shall be confirmed by a majority
vote of the Council. Each officer and every other member of the Department,
except a probationary firefighter, shall serve during good behavior and may be
removed by the Council only for cause after a public hearing. The present
constitution and bylaws of the Department shall be continued; future changes
shall be subject to confirmation and approval by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.036)
§ 32.032 DUTIES OF FIRE MARSHAL.
   The office of Fire Marshal may be held by the Chief or by the Assistant
Chief if the Council, by resolution, approves. The Fire Marshal shall be
charged with the enforcement of all ordinances aimed at fire prevention. The
Fire Marshal shall have full authority to inspect all premises and to cause the
removal or abatement of all fire hazards.
(Prior Code, § 32.037)
§ 32.033 DUTIES OF CHIEF.
   (A)   The Chief shall have control of all the firefighting apparatus and
shall be solely responsible for its care and condition and shall make a semi-
annual report to the Council at its meeting in March and September on the
condition of the equipment and needs of the Fire Department.
   (B)   The Chief may submit additional reports and recommendations at any
meeting of the Council and report each suspension of a member of the Fire
Department at the first meeting of the Council following such suspension.
   (C)   In addition, the Chief shall be responsible for the proper training
and discipline of the members of the Fire Department and may suspend any member
for refusal or neglect to obey orders pending final action by the Council on
the member’s discharge or retention.
(Prior Code, § 32.038)
§ 32.034 RECORDS.
   (A)   The Chief shall keep in convenient form a complete record of all
fires.
   (B)   Such a record shall include the time of the alarm, location of fire,
cause of fire (if known), type of building, name of owner and tenant, purpose
for which occupied, value of building and contents, members of the Department
responding to the alarm, and such other information as the Chief may deem
advisable or as may be required from time to time by the Council or State
Insurance Department.
(Prior Code, § 32.039)
§ 32.035 PRACTICE DRILLS.
   The Chief shall, when the weather permits, hold a monthly practice drill of
at least one hour’s duration for the Fire Department and shall give or arrange
for instruction to the firefighters in approved methods of firefighting and
fire prevention.
(Prior Code, § 32.040)
§ 32.036 ASSISTANT CHIEF.
   In the absence or disability of the Chief, the Assistant Chief shall perform
all the functions and exercise all of the authority of the Chief.
(Prior Code, § 32.041)
§ 32.037 FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   The Assistant Chief and firefighters shall be able-bodied and not less
than 18 years of age. They shall become members of the Fire Department only
after a six months’ probationary period.
   (B)   The Council may require that each candidate, before the candidate may
become a probationary firefighter, must satisfy certain minimum requirements of
height, weight, education, and any other qualification which may be specified
by the Council and that the candidate must pass satisfactorily a mental and
physical examination.
(Prior Code, § 32.042)
§ 32.038 LOSS OF MEMBERSHIP.
   Absence of any firefighter from three consecutive drills or calls, unless
excused by the Chief, shall be cause for removal from the Department.
(Prior Code, § 32.043)
§ 32.039 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The members and officers of the Fire Department shall receive
compensation as determined by the City Council.
   (B)   All members and officers of the Fire Department shall receive
reasonable compensation for attendance at authorized classes, seminars, or
meetings, including reasonable amounts for meals, lodging, registration fees,
and mileage expenses based on an amount determined by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.044)
§ 32.040 MINIMUM PAY.
   In computing compensation for fires and practice drills, one hour shall be
considered as the minimum to be paid to any firefighter or officer. For
answering a call, each firefighter and officer shall receive a minimum amount
determined by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.045)
§ 32.041 PRESENT MEMBERS.
   No person who is a member of the Fire Department at the time of the adoption
of this code shall be required to serve a probationary period before becoming a
firefighter.
(Prior Code, § 32.046)
§ 32.042 RELIEF ASSOCIATION.
   The members and officers of the Fire Department may organize themselves into
a firefighters’ relief association in accordance with the law.
(Prior Code, § 32.047)
§ 32.043 INTERFERENCE WITH DEPARTMENT.
   No person shall give or make, or cause to be given or made, a fire alarm
without probable cause, neglect or refuse to obey any reasonable order of the
Chief at a fire, or interfere with the Fire Department in the discharge of its
duties.
(Prior Code, § 32.048)
§ 32.044 MUTUAL AID AGREEMENTS.
   The city may enter into mutual aid agreements with townships with the
approval of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.049)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.055 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A City Planning Commission for the city, hereinafter referred to as
“Commission”, is established. The Commission shall be the city planning agency
authorized by M.S. § 462.354, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 32.060)
§ 32.056 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   Membership. The City Planning Commission shall consist of nine
members. The Public Works Director and the City Attorney shall be members ex-
officio and the Council shall select two members of the Commission from its own
membership. The other seven members shall be appointed and may be removed by
the Council.
   (B)   Terms, vacancies, and oath. Of the members of the Commission first
appointed, two shall be appointed for the term of one year, two for the term of
two years, two for the term of three years, and one for the term of four years.
Their successors shall be appointed for terms of four years. Both original and
successive appointees shall hold their offices until their successors are
appointed and qualified. The terms of ex-officio members shall correspond to
their respective official tenures. Vacancies during the term shall be filled by
the Council for the unexpired portion of the term. Every appointed member shall
before entering upon the discharge of duties take an oath promising to
faithfully discharge the duties of the office. All members shall serve without
compensation.
(Prior Code, § 32.061)
§ 32.057 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Officers. The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its
appointed members for a term of one year; and the Commission may create and
fill such other offices as it may determine. The Administrator shall act as
Secretary of the Commission but shall not be a member.
   (B)   Meetings, records, and reports. The Commission shall hold meetings
from time to time as deemed necessary. It shall adopt rules for the transaction
of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, and
findings, which record shall be a public record. On or before February 15 of
each year, the Commission shall submit to the Council a report of its work
during the preceding calendar year. Expenditures of the Commission shall be
within amounts appropriated for the purpose by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 32.062)
§ 32.058 POWERS AND DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Commission shall have the powers and duties given planning
agencies generally by law.
      (1)   The Commission shall also exercise the duties conferred upon it by
this code and by the Council.
      (2)   After the Commission has prepared and adopted a comprehensive plan,
the Commission shall periodically, but at least once every year, review the
comprehensive plan, any code, and any capital improvement program the Council
had adopted to implement the plan.
   (B)   After such review it shall, to the extent it deems necessary, revise
the comprehensive plan, adopt the amendments or the new comprehensive plan, and
recommend it to the Council in accordance with law. Similarly, after such
review, it shall recommend to the Council any amendments it deems desirable to
the capital improvement program and any code implementing the plan.
(Prior Code, § 32.063)
§ 32.059 ZONING ORDINANCES; PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   No zoning ordinance or amendment shall be adopted by the Council until a
public hearing has been held thereon by the Commission upon notice as provided
in M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 32.064)
LIBRARY BOARD
§ 32.070 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A Library Department is established in the city.
(Prior Code, § 32.075)
§ 32.071 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this Department to provide and maintain a City
Library. It shall also see to it that a librarian is hired and that the city is
provided with library services.
   (B)   The services may be provided by agreements with appropriate city,
county, regional, or state agencies.
(Prior Code, § 32.076)
§ 32.072 LIBRARY BOARD.
   A Board, consisting of six members, shall be appointed by the Mayor, with
the approval of the Council. One of the members shall be a member of the
Council who acts as an ex-officio member of the Board. No member (except the
ex-officio member) shall serve more than two successive full three-year terms.
(Prior Code, § 32.077)
§ 32.073 HECTOR PUBLIC LIBRARY TRUST FUND.
   (A)   Recitals and establishment of Trust Fund. The Council, in full
recognition of the needs of the citizens of the city for a library for use by
the public, determines that the establishment of a Public Library Trust Fund
for the purpose of receiving and administering funds for library purposes may
provide substantial benefits to the citizens of the city and substantially
improve the quality of life for the residents of the city in general; and that
accordingly, the establishment of the city’s Public Library Trust Fund is in
the public interest. There is established a perpetual and permanent public
charitable trust fund for the city for library purposes to be officially called
and known as “The City of Hector Public Library Trust Fund”, hereinafter
referred to as “the Trust Fund”.
   (B)   Purpose of the Trust Fund. The purpose of the Trust Fund is
exclusively to receive and to administer funds for library purposes for the
benefit of the residents of the city and to that end to take and hold by
bequest, devise, gift, grant, purchase, lease, or otherwise any property, real,
personal, tangible or intangible, or any undivided interest therein, without
limitation as to amount or value to sell, convey, or otherwise dispose of any
such property and to invest, reinvest, or deal with the principal or the income
thereof in such manner as, in the judgment of the Board of Trustees of said
Fund, will best promote the purposes of the Trust Fund.
   (C)   Establishment of Board of Trustees. There shall be and is established
a Board of Trustees for the purpose of administering the funds of the Trust
Fund in accordance with the purposes herein set forth. The Board of Trustees
shall consist of five persons, as follows: the Mayor of the city (ex-officio,
who shall vote only in the case of a tie) and four other members appointed by
the City Council, all of whom shall be residents of the city, two of whom shall
be a members of the Hector Library Board and two of whom shall be members at
large. The Mayor shall serve on the Board of Trustees so long as he or she
holds such public office, and the four remaining members of the Board of
Trustees shall be appointed to initial terms of one, two, three, and four
years, respectively, and thereafter each member and his or her successor in
office shall serve for four-year terms. No member shall serve on the Board for
more than eight consecutive years, the initial terms of the first members
excepted. The Council may, by resolution, require that the members be bonded in
an amount determined by the Council, in its discretion, at the sole expense of
the city.
   (D)   Powers of Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall have the
power and authority to do any act or thing incidental to or connected with the
foregoing purposes or in advancement thereof.
   (E)   City shall be Trustee of funds; accounting. The city, a municipal
corporation, shall be at all times considered the Trustee of all funds received
by the Trust Fund, to be administered by the city by and through the Board of
Trustees, as above established. An annual accounting of all funds received by
the Trust Fund and paid out therefrom, the income thereon, and the expenses
relating to the Trust Fund shall be included in the annual city audit. The city
shall at all times be considered the owner of all funds received by the Trust
Fund, to be held in trust for the uses and purposes hereinbefore stated and
described.
   (F)   Limitations on power of Board of Trustees. The Board of Trustees shall
not engage in any activities, acts, or actions which would make any investments
of the funds of the Trust Fund in any manner subject to tax under the Internal
Revenue Code or any like or corresponding provisions of any subsequent federal
tax laws and shall not engage in any activities, acts, or actions which might
destroy the tax deductibility of gifts, bequests, or devises by donors to the
Trust Fund, it being the intent of the Council that all such bequests, devises,
and gifts made and transferred to the Trust Fund by any donor shall be
deductible for income tax and death tax purposes.
   (G)   Books and records of the Trust Fund; location thereof. All books,
records, statements of account, and any and all other information relating to
the Trust Fund and the administration thereof shall be permanently located at
the office of the Administrator for the city and shall at all times be open for
inspection by the public.
   (H)   Board of Trustees may formulate bylaws for the conduct of its
business. The Board of Trustees shall at all times have the power to make,
establish, and formulate bylaws and amendments thereto for the efficient
conduct of its business as authorized by this section.
   (I)   Transfers to Trust Fund; how made. Gifts, bequests, devises, or other
transfers to Trust Funds may be accomplished by making checks, drafts, or
bequests payable to “City of Hector Public Library Trust Fund”. All such gifts,
bequests, and transfers from any third party or parties shall be acknowledged
by the Board of Trustees by means of a resolution of the Board accepting such
gift or bequests for the purposes hereinbefore set forth.
(Prior Code, § 32.078) (Ord. 159, passed 12-21-1984)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 32.085 RECITALS.
   The city is authorized pursuant to M.S. §§ 469.090 through 469.1082 (the
“EDA Act”), as it may be amended from time to time, to establish an economic
development authority for the city, and the Council desires to do so in order
to promote certain economic, commercial, housing, and/or industrial development
and redevelopment goals and objectives. The city has caused notice of a public
hearing on the establishment by the city of an economic development authority
to be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city once each
week for two consecutive weeks, and pursuant to such notice, a public hearing
on the question has been held by the Council on the date hereof, at which
hearing all persons desiring to present their oral or written comments on this
proposal were given an opportunity to do so.
(Prior Code, § 32.090) (Ord. 188, passed 8-9-1994; Res. 97-07, passed 7-7-1997)
§ 32.086 ESTABLISHMENT OF ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Pursuant to the EDA Act, the Council hereby establishes an economic
development authority for the city, to be known as the Hector Economic
Development Authority (the “EDA”). The EDA shall be governed by a Board of
Commissioners thereof consisting of seven members, at least two of whom must be
members of the Council, and the term of each such Commissioner of the EDA that
is a City Council member shall coincide with that Commissioner’s membership on
the City Council.
   (B)   This resolution ratifies all prior actions taken by the Council with
respect to the EDA, including, without limitation, the Council’s adoption of
ordinance 188 on August 9, 1994, but this resolution also amends and restates
any and all prior enabling resolutions of the Council respecting the EDA,
including the ordinance.
   (C)   Furthermore, to the extent of any inconsistency or contradiction
between the terms hereof and the terms of any by-laws adopted or other actions
taken by the EDA Board of Commissioners (and notwithstanding any contrary
limitation imposed on the EDA therein with respect to the full exercise of its
statutory powers hereby conferred), the provisions hereof shall apply, govern,
and be fully effective. The EDA’s exercise of any power to issue bonds or other
indebtedness or to levy taxes shall be contingent upon prior Council approval.
(Prior Code, § 32.091) (Ord. 188, passed 8-9-1994; Res. 97-07, passed 7-7-1997)
§ 32.087 POWERS.
   The EDA shall have all powers given to an economic development authority
pursuant to the EDA Act, as the same may be amended or supplemented.
(Prior Code, § 32.092) (Ord. 188, passed 8-9-1994; Res. 97-07, passed 7-7-1997)
COMMUNITY CENTER
§ 32.100 MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Community Center for the use of the
city, its citizens, and other persons or organizations. The Community Center is
located at 130 Main Street S. in downtown Hector.
   (B)   The Community Center is owned by the city and all rules and
regulations governing its use shall be as the City Council deems in the public
interest. Any and all persons or organizations using the Community Center shall
be subject to this subchapter and other rules and regulations as the City
Council may pass from time to time.
   (C)   The day-to-day management of, and scheduling for, the use of the
Community Center shall be the responsibility of the City Administrator. All
persons desiring to use the Community Center must make application with the
City Administrator prior to use. In case of scheduling conflicts, use will be
on a first-come, first-served basis, subject to the priority provisions
contained herein.
(Prior Code, § 32.105) (Ord. 220, passed - -)
§ 32.101 CLASSIFICATION OF USERS.
   All users shall be classified under three classifications, defined as
follows:
   (A)   City class: any use held under the auspices of the City of Hector;
   (B)   Non-profit organization: any non-profit organization which is a
corporation, fund, foundation, trust, club, or association organized
exclusively for literary, charitable, educational, artistic, pleasure, social,
or recreational purposes, if no part of the net income of any such organization
insures to the benefit of any private member, stockholder, or individual; and
   (C)   Other class: all persons, corporations, associations, clubs, or other
entities not included in city class or non-profit organization class.
(Prior Code, § 32.106) (Ord. 220, passed - -)
§ 32.102 PRIORITY OF USE.
   (A)   It is hereby deemed to be in the best interests of the community that
the following priority be assigned between user classifications for use of the
Community Center:
      (1)   Priority one: city class; and
      (2)   Priority two: non-profit organization class and other class.
   (B)   Priority one uses may schedule usage at any time up to three days
prior to the day of use, which may cause lower priority users to forfeit an
already scheduled date.
   (C)   Priority two users may schedule blocks of time to be reserved for
their use on an annual basis. The blocks must be reserved for use prior to
January 1 of each succeeding year. The City Administrator is allowed discretion
in limiting the number and length of the blocks so desired reserved. Any usage
time desired not so reserved shall be subject to the first-come, first-served
rule.
   (D)   Priority two users shall be on a first-come, first-served basis,
subject to priority one classification.
   (E)   If any user’s time is canceled due to a priority situation, there
shall be a full refund of any amounts paid. The city shall not be liable for
any losses occurring as a result of a cancellation due to priorities.
(Prior Code, § 32.107) (Ord. 220, passed - -)
§ 32.103 FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   City class: free of charge.
   (B)   Non-profit organization class: free of charge.
   (C)   Other class: $45 per day.
   (D)   Additionally, a deposit for cleaning, damage, and return of keys for
the facility shall be required of all classes except the city class. The
deposit shall be in the sum of $25. Block users under non-profit organization
class may petition the City Council for a special rate for a damage deposit.
The rate shall be in the sole discretion of the Council. All uses shall be
responsible for any cleaning and repairs after use so that the premises are in
the same condition as before the use. The Administrator or his or her agent
will be responsible for making all decisions concerning the cleanliness and
repair of the premises and the refund of the deposit.
(Prior Code, § 32.108) (Ord. 220, passed - -)
§ 32.104 RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
   (A)   No intoxicating beverages or non-intoxicating malt beverages shall be
allowed in the Community Center.
   (B)   No smoking shall be allowed in the Community Center.
   (C)   Users shall not violate any federal law, state law, or city ordinance
in the Community Center.
   (D)   All activities must have adult supervision.
   (E)   The use of decorations, such as scotch tape, tacks, nails, or staples
for hanging any decoration is not allowed on any wall or ceiling surface.
Masking tape is an acceptable means of securing decorations.
   (F)   All groups or users shall be responsible to immediately cleanup the
Community Center upon the premises.
   (G)   A complete inspection of the Center will occur the following day or as
soon as possible after the use. If the City Administrator or his or her assigns
determine that it is adequate for future use without need for additional
cleaning or repairs, the damage deposit check will be returned uncashed. If it
is not, any costs for janitorial services provided by the city shall be
withheld from the user’s damage deposit check.
(Prior Code, § 32.109) (Ord. 220, passed - -) Penalty, see §
32.999
§ 32.105 LIABILITY.
   (A)   All users of the Community Center shall hold the city harmless from
any liability for injuries to property or persons arising from the use of the
Community Center. Users include the applicant as well as any guest, invitee, or
agent.
   (B)   All users of the Community Center shall reimburse the city for any
damages to the Community Center arising from their use thereof. In addition to
any individual who commits the property damage, the person who signed the
application shall also be held liable for the property damage.
(Prior Code, § 32.110) (Ord. 220, passed - -)
§ 32.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of §
32.043 shall result in a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 32.048)
   (C)   Violation of §§
32.100 to
32.105 shall be a petty misdemeanor punishable by a fine of $100. In addition
to an individual who commits a crime, the person who signed the application
shall also be held responsible for any acts committed in violation of §§
32.100 to
32.105. Sections
32.100 to
32.105 shall not preclude the enforcement of any federal, state, municipal law,
or ordinance. Failure to comply with guidelines or rules established by the
City Council regulating the use of public facilities may cause the forfeiture
of future use privileges.
(Prior Code, § 32.111)
(Ord. 220, passed - -)
CHAPTER 33: CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Payment for city services or products
   
33.02   Election date
   
33.03   Application of state laws
Employment Background Checks
   
33.15   Applicants for city employment
   
33.16   Applicants for city licenses
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PAYMENT FOR CITY SERVICES OR PRODUCTS.
   (A)   If anyone pays a bill for services or products the city provides with
a check that is returned for non-sufficient funds (NSF), that person or entity
shall be charged a fee of $15 for each time a check is returned to the city for
NSF.
   (B)   Any person or entity who gives a NSF check to the city will be
required to pay the city in cash or cash equivalent for the above stated fees
along with the outstanding amount that person or entity owes the city.
(Prior Code, § 33.01) (Ord. 197, passed 8-14-1995)
§ 33.02 ELECTION DATE.
   The regular city election of the city shall be held on the first Tuesday
after the first Monday in November of each even year.
(Prior Code, § 33.02) (Ord. 122, passed 8-11-1964)
§ 33.03 APPLICATION OF STATE LAWS.
   The provisions of the Government Data Practices Act, M.S. Ch. 13, the
Opening Meeting Law, M.S. Ch. 13D, and the laws relating to Gifts to Local
Officials, M.S. § 471.895, as these laws may be amended from time to time,
apply to the City Council and all boards and commissions of the city and their
members.
EMPLOYMENT BACKGROUND CHECKS
§ 33.15 APPLICANTS FOR CITY EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to the state’s computerized
criminal history information for specified non-criminal purposes of employment
background checks for the positions described below.
   (B)   Criminal history employment background investigations. The city’s
Police Department is hereby required, as the exclusive entity within the city,
to do a criminal history background investigation on the applicants for the
following positions within the city, unless the city’s hiring authority
concludes that a background investigation is not needed.
      (1)   Employment positions. All regular part-time or full-time employees
of the city and other positions that work with children or vulnerable adults.
      (2)   State information system. In conducting the criminal history
background investigation in order to screen employment applicants, the Police
Department is authorized to access data maintained in the state’s Bureau of
Criminal Apprehensions Computerized Criminal History information system in
accordance with BCA policy. Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be
maintained at the Police Department under the care and custody of the chief law
enforcement official or his or her designee. A summary of the results of the
computerized criminal history data may be released by the Police Department to
the hiring authority, including the City Council, the City Administrator, or
other city staff involved in the hiring process.
      (3)   Consent to investigation. Before the investigation is undertaken,
the applicant must authorize the Police Department by written consent to
undertake the investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the
provisions of M.S. Chapter 13 regarding the collection, maintenance, and use of
the information. Except for the positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, the city
will not reject an applicant for employment on the basis of the applicant’s
prior conviction unless the crime is directly related to the position of
employment sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or
misdemeanor with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request
on this basis, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
         (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06;
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment; and
         (d)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 31.03, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 33.16 APPLICANTS FOR CITY LICENSES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of this section is to establish
regulations that will allow law enforcement access to state’s computerized
criminal history information for specified non-criminal purposes of licensing
background checks.
   (B)   Criminal history license background investigations. The city’s Police
Department is hereby required, as the exclusive entity within the city, to do a
criminal history background investigation on the applicants for the following
licenses within the city:
   (C)   City licenses.
      (1)   Liquor establishments;
      (2)   Peddler licenses; and
      (3)   Independent contractors.
   (D)   State information system. In conducting the criminal history
background investigation in order to screen license applicants, the Police
Department is authorized to access data maintained in the state’s Bureau of
Criminal Apprehensions Computerized Criminal History information system in
accordance with BCA policy. Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be
maintained at the Police Department under the care and custody of the chief law
enforcement official or his or her designee. A summary of the results of the
computerized criminal history data may be released by the Police Department to
the licensing authority, including the City Council, the City Administrator, or
other city staff involved in the license approval process.
   (E)   Consent to investigate. Before the investigation is undertaken, the
applicant must authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake
the investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Chapter 13 regarding the collection, maintenance, and use of the
information. Except for the positions set forth in M.S. § 364.09, the city will
not reject an applicant for a license on the basis of the applicant’s prior
conviction unless the crime is directly related to the license sought and the
conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor with a jail
sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request on this basis, the city
shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
      (1)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
      (2)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in M.S. §
364.06;
      (3)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for the license; and
      (4)   That all competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 31.03, passed 12-10-2012)
CHAPTER 34: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   Policy and purpose
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Establishment of emergency management organization
   
34.04   Powers and duties of Director
   
34.05   Local emergencies
   
34.06   Emergency regulations
   
34.07   Emergency management a government function
   
34.08   Participation in labor disputes or politics
 
   
34.99   Penalty
§ 34.01 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   Because of the existing possibility of the occurrence of disasters of
unprecedented size and destruction resulting from fire, flood, tornado,
blizzard, destructive winds, or other natural causes, or from sabotage, hostile
action, or from hazardous material mishaps of catastrophic measure; and in
order to ensure that preparations of this city will be adequate to deal with
those disasters, and generally, to provide for the common defense and to
protect the public peace, health, and safety, and to preserve the lives and
property of the people of this city, it is hereby found and declared to be
necessary:
   (A)   To establish a city emergency management organization responsible for
city planning and preparation for emergency government operations in time of
disasters;
   (B)   To provide for the exercise of necessary powers during emergencies and
disasters;
   (C)   To provide for the rendering of mutual aid between this city and other
political subdivisions of this state and of other states with respect to the
carrying out of emergency-preparedness functions; and
   (D)   To comply with the provisions of M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended
from time to time, which requires that each political subdivision of the state
shall establish a local organization for emergency management.
(Prior Code, § 34.01)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. A situation which creates an immediate and serious impairment to
the health and safety of any person, or a situation which has resulted in or is
likely to result in catastrophic loss to property, and for which traditional
sources of relief and assistance within the affected area are unable to repair
or prevent the injury or loss.
   EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances which calls for
immediate action to prevent from developing or occurring.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and the carrying out of all
emergency functions, other than functions for which military forces are
primarily responsible, to prevent, minimize, and repair injury and damage
resulting from disasters caused by fire, flood, tornado, and other acts of
nature, or from sabotage, hostile action, or from industrial hazardous material
mishaps. These functions include, without limitation, firefighting services,
police services, emergency medical services, engineering, warning services,
communications, radiological, and chemical, evacuation, congregate care,
emergency transportation, existing or properly assigned functions of plant
protection, temporary restoration of public utility services and other
functions related to civil protection, together with all other activities
necessary or incidental for carrying out the foregoing functions. EMERGENCY
MANAGEMENT includes those activities sometimes referred to as “civil defense”
functions.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The total personnel resources engaged in city-
level emergency management functions in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter or any rule or order thereunder. This includes personnel from city
departments, authorized volunteers, and private organizations and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION. The staff responsible for coordinating
city-level planning and preparation for disaster response. This ORGANIZATION
provides city liaison and coordination with federal, state, and local
jurisdictions relative to disaster preparedness activities and assures
implementation of federal and state program requirements.
(Prior Code, § 34.02)
§ 34.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   There is hereby created within the city government an emergency
management organization which shall be under the supervision and control of the
City Emergency Management Director, called “the Director”. The Director shall
be appointed by the Mayor with approval of the City Council for an indefinite
term and may be removed by him or her at any time.
   (B)   The Director shall serve with a salary as established by the City
Council and shall be paid his or her necessary expenses.
   (C)   The Director shall have direct responsibility for the organization,
administration, and operation of the emergency preparedness organization,
subject to the direction and control of the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 34.03)
§ 34.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   The Director, with the consent of the Mayor, shall represent the city
on any regional or state conference for emergency management. The Director
shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with other political subdivisions
of the state for reciprocal emergency management aid and assistance in an
emergency too great to be dealt with unassisted, and shall present these
agreements to the Council for its action. These arrangements shall be
consistent with the State Emergency Plan.
   (B)   The Director shall make studies and surveys of the human resources,
industries, resources, and facilities of the city as deemed necessary to
determine their adequacy for emergency management and to plan for their most
efficient use in time of an emergency or disaster. The Director shall establish
the economic stabilization systems and measures, service staffs, boards, and
sub-boards required, in accordance with state and federal plans and directions
subject to the approval of the Mayor.
   (C)   The Director shall prepare a comprehensive emergency plan for the
emergency preparedness of the city and shall present the plan to the Council
for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan, it shall be the duty
of all city agencies and all emergency preparedness forces of the city to
perform the duties and functions assigned by the plan as approved. The plan may
be modified in like manner from time to time. The Director shall coordinate the
emergency management activities of the city to the end that they shall be
consistent and fully integrated with the emergency plans of the federal
government and the state and correlated with emergency plans of the county and
other political subdivisions within the state.
   (D)   In accordance with the State and City Emergency Plan, the Director
shall institute training programs, public information programs, and conduct
practice warning alerts and emergency exercises as may be necessary to assure
prompt and effective operation of the City Emergency Plan when a disaster
occurs.
   (E)   The Director shall utilize the personnel, services, equipment,
supplies, and facilities of existing departments and agencies of the city to
the maximum extent practicable. The officers and personnel of all city
departments and agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, cooperate
with and extend services and facilities to the city’s emergency management
organization and to the Governor upon request. The head of each department or
agency in cooperation with the Director shall be responsible for the planning
and programming of those emergency activities as will involve the utilization
of the facilities of the department or agency.
   (F)   The Director shall, in cooperation with those city departments and
agencies affected, assist in the organizing, recruiting, and training of
emergency management personnel, which may be required on a volunteer basis to
carry out the emergency plans of the city and state. To the extent that
emergency personnel are recruited to augment a regular city department or
agency for emergencies, they shall be assigned to the departments or agencies
and shall be under the administration and control of the department or agency.
   (G)   Consistent with the state emergency services laws, the Director shall
coordinate the activity of municipal emergency management organizations within
the city and assist in establishing and conducting training programs as
required to assure emergency operational capability in the several services as
provided by M.S. § 12.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (H)   The Director shall carry out all orders, rules, and regulations issued
by the Governor with reference to emergency management.
   (I)   The Director shall prepare and submit reports on emergency
preparedness activities when requested by the Mayor.
(Prior Code, § 34.04)
§ 34.05 LOCAL EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   A local emergency may be declared only by the Mayor or his or her
legal successor. It shall not be continued for a period in excess of three days
except by or with the consent of the Council. Any order, or proclamation
declaring, continuing, or terminating a local emergency shall be given prompt
and general publicity and shall be filed in the office of the City
Administrator.
   (B)   A declaration of a local emergency shall invoke necessary portions of
the response and recovery aspects of applicable local or inter-jurisdictional
disaster plans, and may authorize aid and assistance thereunder.
   (C)   No jurisdictional agency or official may declare a local emergency
unless expressly authorized by the agreement under which the agency functions;
however, an inter-jurisdictional disaster agency shall provide aid and services
in accordance with the agreement under which it functions.
(Prior Code, § 34.05) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.06 EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Whenever necessary, to meet a declared emergency or to prepare for an
emergency for which adequate regulations have not been adopted by the Governor
or the Council, the Council may by resolution promulgate regulations,
consistent with applicable federal or state law or regulation, respecting: the
conduct of persons and the use of property during emergencies; the repair,
maintenance, and safeguarding of essential public services; emergency health,
fire, and safety regulations; drills or practice periods required for
preliminary training; and all other matters which are required to protect
public safety, health, and welfare in declared emergencies.
   (B)   Every resolution of emergency regulations shall be in writing, shall
be dated, shall refer to the particular emergency to which it pertains, if so
limited, and shall be filed in the office of the City Administrator. A copy
shall be kept posted and available for public inspection during business hours.
Notice of the existence of these regulations and their availability for
inspection at the City Administrator’s office shall be conspicuously posted at
the front of the City Hall or other headquarters of the city or at other places
in the affected area as the Council shall designate in the resolution. By
resolution, the Council may modify or rescind a regulation.
   (C)   The Council may rescind any regulation by resolution at any time. If
not sooner rescinded, every regulation shall expire at the end of 30 days after
its effective date or at the end of the emergency to which it relates,
whichever comes first. Any resolution, rule, or regulation inconsistent with an
emergency regulation promulgated by the Council shall be suspended during the
period of time and to the extent conflict exists.
   (D)   During a declared emergency, the city is, under the provisions of M.S.
§ 12.31, as it may be amended from time to time and notwithstanding any
statutory or Charter provision to the contrary, empowered, through its Council,
acting within or without the corporate limits of the city, to enter into
contracts and incur obligations necessary to combat the disaster by protecting
the health and safety of persons and property and providing emergency
assistance to the victims of a disaster. The city may exercise these powers in
the light of the exigencies of the disaster without compliance with the time-
consuming procedures and formalities prescribed by law pertaining to the
performance of public work, entering rental equipment agreements, purchase of
supplies and materials, limitations upon tax levies, and the appropriation and
expenditure of public funds, including, but not limited to, publication of
resolutions, publication of calls for bids, provisions of personnel laws and
rules, provisions relating to low bids, and requirement for bids.
(Prior Code, § 34.06) Penalty, see §
34.99
§ 34.07 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT A GOVERNMENT FUNCTION.
   All functions and activities relating to emergency management are hereby
declared to be governmental functions. The provisions of this section shall not
affect the right of any person to receive benefits to which he would otherwise
be entitled under this resolution or under the worker’s compensation law, or
under any pension law, nor the right of any person to receive any benefits or
compensation under any act of Congress.
(Prior Code, § 34.07)
§ 34.08 PARTICIPATION IN LABOR DISPUTES OR POLITICS.
   The emergency management organization shall not participate in any form of
political activity, nor shall it be employed directly or indirectly for
political purposes, nor shall it be employed in a labor dispute.
(Prior Code, § 34.08)
§ 34.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter or any regulation
adopted thereunder relating to acts, omissions, or conduct other than official
acts of city employees or officers is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 34.99)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
      
52.   WATER SERVICE
      
53.   SEWER SERVICE
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Purpose
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Garbage and rubbish in residential and multiple-family residential
districts
   
50.04   Garbage and rubbish in commercial and industrial districts
   
50.05   Rates and charges
   
50.06   Billing
   
50.07   Payment
   
50.08   Refuse collection schedule
   
50.09   Collection vehicles
   
50.10   Manufactured home parks
   
50.11   Construction dumpsters/dumpsters
Regulations
   
50.25   Unauthorized accumulations
   
50.26   Refuse in streets and the like
   
50.27   Scattering of refuse
   
50.28   Burying of refuse; composting
   
50.29   Disposal required
   
50.30   Regulatory authority
Contract for Refuse Collection
   
50.45   Council to let contract
   
50.46   Terms
   
50.47   Liability insurance
   
50.48   Contract collector
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 PURPOSE.
   An ordinance establishing standards and procedures governing garbage,
refuse, and dumpsters in an effort to keep the streets within the city safe and
clean; all in order to promote the health, welfare, and safety of the public,
and to protect the environment.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCTION DUMPSTER or DUMPSTER. Any portable container used or designed
for collection of, transportation of, or disposal of construction/demolition
materials, or the like. CONSTRUCTION DUMPSTER shall include, but is not limited
to, “roll off” boxes or containers, and portable storage containers.
   GARBAGE. Organic waste resulting from the preparation of food and decayed
and spoiled food from any source.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation which is clearly incidental to the principal
use of the premises, is conducted by a resident occupant, and does not change
the character of the principal use.
   RECYCLABLES. Includes paper, plastic, tin cans, aluminum, motor oil, glass,
and other metal goods, each separated or otherwise prepared so as to be
acceptable to the recycling center where they are to be deposited.
   RECYCLING CENTER. Premises used for the receipt, storage, or processing of
recyclables and approved as such by the Council when the premises are in the
city or by the governing body of the local government unit having jurisdiction
when the premises are outside the city.
   REFUSE. This term includes garbage and rubbish.
   RUBBISH. Inorganic solid waste such as tin cans, glass, paper, ashes,
sweepings, and the like.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 50.03 GARBAGE AND RUBBISH IN RESIDENTIAL AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   All owners, occupants, and persons in control or possession of a
structure located in the residential or multiple-family residential districts
as defined in the city zoning code shall care for garbage and rubbish in the
following manner.
      (1)   Storage. For the storage of garbage and rubbish each person shall
use city approved volume based carts. Extra refuse may be disposed of by
arrangements directly with the contractor.
      (2)   Placement. Carts shall be placed at curbside.
      (3)   Use of containers. Refuse shall be drained of liquid and household
garbage shall be wrapped before being deposited in a cart. Highly inflammable
or explosive material shall not be placed in containers.
      (4)   Proper disposal. Proof of environmentally sound disposal of all
garbage and rubbish is required by the city for all residential properties.
   (B)   All owners, occupants, and persons in control or possession of a
structure located in the residential or multiple-family residential districts
as defined in the city zoning code and is running a home occupation in the
structure shall care for garbage and rubbish in the following manner.
      (1)   Storage. For the storage of garbage and rubbish each person shall
use the city approved volume based carts or a two yard dumpster.
      (2)   Placement. If using the cart system, following the same placement
rules as in division (A)(2) above. If using a dumpster, the dumpster must be
located off the alley where it is available and in a screened in fence area.
The rules as in §
50.11(A) must be followed.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 50.04 GARBAGE AND RUBBISH IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   All owners, occupants, and persons in control or possession of a structure
located in the commercial or industrial districts, as defined in the city
zoning code, shall remove or cause to be removed by a licensed garbage
collector all garbage and rubbish in an environmentally sound manner.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 50.05 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The owner or occupant of any premises served by the city refuse collection
contractor shall pay to the collector the rates approved by the city in an
agreement.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 50.06 BILLING.
   The contractor will bill households and commercial refuse generators for
services provided pursuant to an agreement approved by the city, and all
federal, state, and local taxes, assessments, user fees, and surcharges, at no
administration charge to customers. The contractor will, at no cost to the
city, receive and process all customer calls for service or changes in the
delivery service. The city shall by ordinance enforce the exclusive right of
contractor under the agreement.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 50.07 PAYMENT.
   The contractor shall annually certify all unpaid accounts to the city. In
accordance with M.S. § 443.015, the city shall annually levy an assessment
equal to all unpaid costs as of September 1 of each year, against each lot or
parcel of land within the city for which charges are unpaid. The assessment
shall include a penalty of 10% of the amount thereof and shall bear interest at
a rate of 6% per annum. The assessments shall be certified to the County
Auditor, and shall be collected and remitted to the city in same manner as
assessments for local improvements. The city shall in turn remit the charges
collected to the contractor, less the 10% penalty as provided, which shall be
retained by the city.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 50.08 REFUSE COLLECTION SCHEDULE.
   Collections shall be done on a weekday in accordance with a schedule of
pickups to be established by the contractor and approved by the city in an
agreement.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 50.09 COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   Every vehicle used for hauling garbage shall be covered, leak proof,
durable, and of easily cleanable construction. Every vehicle used for hauling
refuse shall be sufficiently airtight and so used as to prevent unreasonable
quantities of dust, paper, or other collected materials to escape. Every
vehicle shall be kept clean to prevent nuisances, pollution, or insect-breeding
and shall be maintained in good repair.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 50.10 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   All costs associated with refuse collection and disposal incurred by any
occupant of a manufactured home located within the designated manufactured home
parks shall be the responsibility of the manufactured home park owner.
(Ord. 184, passed 6-14-1994; Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 50.11 CONSTRUCTION DUMPSTERS/DUMPSTERS.
   All entities/companies owning and emptying a dumpster within city limits
must be licensed to operate within the city.
   (A)   Rules.
      (1)   Dumpsters must be well maintained and in good working condition,
displaying the name or logo and telephone number of the owner of the dumpster,
and be suitably supported at each contact point to prevent damage to paved
surfaces.
      (2)   Dumpsters must be covered when materials inside are easily
airborne, pose a hazard, emit an odor, or are otherwise offensive.
      (3)   Debris must be placed inside the dumpster, not alongside or on top
of it.
      (4)   All dumpsters are required to be emptied when full. For the purpose
of this chapter, FULL is defined as when the content of the dumpster reach an
average level of one foot below the top edge of the dumpster sides. Any
dumpster which has reached the full status and is not emptied within seven
calendar days shall be considered in violation of this chapter.
      (5)   Cleaning dumpsters on the street or sidewalk is not permitted.
      (6)   Dumpsters may remain in place for 60 days. A 30-day extension may
be allowed with written permission from the city.
   (B)   Dumpsters in the public right-of-way.
      (1)   A dumpster placed in the public right-of-way must have a flasher or
reflector on the outside corner facing traffic at all times. Where traffic may
approach from either side, the dumpster must have a flasher or reflector on the
outside corner on both sides. Type I or Type II barricades can be used as an
alternate to flashers and reflectors.
      (2)   Dumpsters shall not block a public sidewalk or be placed in a
location that restricts the “sight lines” of an intersection. “Sight lines”
will be determined by the Streets Supervisor.
      (3)   Dumpsters placed in the public right-of-way for construction,
remodeling, or demolition projects shall be removed immediately upon the
completion of the project. No dumpster shall be placed in the public right-of-
way for more than 30 days. An extension of the 30-day rule may be allowed with
written permission from the city.
      (4)   No dumpster shall be placed on streets, sides of streets, or areas
designated as “No Parking”. Dumpsters shall not be placed in public parking
lots or parks without prior written permission from the city.
      (5)   The owner and/or the user of a dumpster on a public right-of-way
is/are responsible for any public property, street, curb, and gutter, or public
infrastructure damage.
      (6)   No dumpster shall be placed in the public right-of-way during the
WINTER SNOW SEASON, defined for the purpose of this chapter as the period from
November 1 to April 1.
   (C)   Denial of dumpster use.
      (1)   The City Council may deny the use of dumpsters in the public right-
of-way if the dumpster is too wide to allow public safety vehicles through, or
due to any other traffic concerns.
      (2)   The City Council may also deny the use of dumpsters to protect
public health or safety concerns.
(Ord. passed - -2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
REGULATIONS
§ 50.25 UNAUTHORIZED ACCUMULATIONS.
   Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on any premises is a nuisance and
prohibited.
(Ord. passed - -2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.26 REFUSE IN STREETS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall place or cause to be deposited any refuse in any
street, avenue, alley, vacant lot, or vacant part of any lot, or upon any yard
or other ground or place appurtenant to any building or structure in the city
or public place or upon any private property, except in proper containers for
collection.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit refuse in any stream or other body of
water.
   (C)   No person shall burn garbage or rubbish in the city.
(Ord. passed - -2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.27 SCATTERING OF REFUSE.
   No person shall deposit anywhere within the city any refuse in such manner
that it may be carried or deposited by the elements upon any public or private
premises within the city.
(Ord. passed - -2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.28 BURYING OF REFUSE; COMPOSTING.
   No person shall bury any refuse in the city except in an approved sanitary
landfill, but leaves, grass clippings, and easily biodegradable, nonpoisonous
garbage may be composted on the premises where such refuge has been
accumulated. Garbage must be composted only in a rodent-proof structure and in
an otherwise sanitary manner and after the Council gives its approval to such
composting after it finds that the composting will be done in accordance with
these standards.
(Ord. passed - -2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.29 DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person shall, in an environmentally sound manner, dispose of
refuse that may accumulate upon property owned or occupied by him or her.
   (B)   Garbage shall be collected, or otherwise lawfully disposed of, at
least once each month, unless sanitary requirements make more frequent
collections necessary.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 50.30 REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
   The City Council may make, by resolution, such administrative regulations
and rules as may be necessary and proper to regulate, enforce, and carry out
the proposes, intent, requirements, and provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
CONTRACT FOR REFUSE COLLECTION
§ 50.45 COUNCIL TO LET CONTRACT.
   (A)   Subject to the provisions of this subchapter, the Council shall grant
by contract the authority to collect and dispose of all refuse originating
within the city.
   (B)   The Administrator shall prepare specifications for advertising for
such contract and he or she shall see that when let the contract is executed in
accordance with its terms and this subchapter.
   (C)   If the Council deems it advisable, it may divide the city into
districts and let a separate contract for the collection of refuse in each
district.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 50.46 TERMS.
   The contract shall be made for a term of up to five years, subject to
extension by mutual consent for any additional years and to terminate during
the period of the contract as provided in the contract.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 50.47 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Before the contract shall be issued, the contractor shall agree to hold the
city harmless and shall agree to defend and indemnify the city, and the city’s
employees and agents, for any claims, damages, losses, and expenses related to
the work under the contract. The city shall be named as an additional insured
under that insurance for the services provided under the contract. The
contractor’s contract of insurance shall be the primary insurance for the city
and the contractor or insurance company shall provide a certificate of
insurance which verifies the existence of the insurance required, including
provisions to hold the city harmless and defend and indemnify the city. The
insurance shall provide coverage up to $300,000 for any single claim and
$1,000,000 for any number of claims in a single occurrence.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
§ 50.48 CONTRACT COLLECTOR.
   (A)   No person shall collect refuse within the city except a person holding
a contract with the city to do so.
   (B)   No person shall permit refuse to be picked up from his or her premises
except by such contractor.
(Ord. 50, passed 8-9-2010; Ord. passed - -2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of this ordinance is a misdemeanor.
      (1)   The city may remove or have a container removed from the public
right-of-way, if the container is in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The owner of the container, or if the owner cannot be determined,
the person placing it in the public right-of-way shall pay all costs, fees,
penalties, or other expenses incurred by the city in removal, storage fees, and
disposal of any container and its contents.
      (3)   If the container is not claimed within 30 days by its owner or
person responsible for placing it in the public right-of-way, it may be
disposed of as abandoned property, but disposal shall not diminish the
responsibility of the owner or the person responsible for placing the container
in the public right-of- way to pay all amounts due.
      (4)   The city shall not release a container from storage until all
amounts due under this section have been paid.
(Ord. passed - -2018)
CHAPTER 51: WATER AND SEWER SERVICE
Section
   
51.01   Water and Sewer Division
   
51.02   Use of water or sewer system restricted
   
51.03   Applications for service
   
51.04   Charges for service connections
   
51.05   Accounting, billing, and collecting
   
51.06   Installation for water and sewer service and equipment
§ 51.01 WATER AND SEWER DIVISION.
   There is established a Water and Sewer Division, hereinafter referred to as
“the Division”, which shall be under the supervision of the Public Works
Director. The Division shall be responsible for the management, maintenance,
care, and operation of the water works and sanitary sewage of the city.
(Prior Code, § 51.01)
§ 51.02 USE OF WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM RESTRICTED.
   No person shall make or use any water or sewer service installation
connected to the city water or sewer system except pursuant to application and
permit as provided in this chapter. No person shall make or use any such
installation contrary to the regulatory provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 51.02)
§ 51.03 APPLICATIONS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Procedure. Application for a water or sewer service installation and
for water service shall be made to the Public Works Director on forms
prescribed by the Public Works Director and furnished by the city at the
Administrator’s office. By signature, the application shall agree to conform to
this chapter and to rules and regulations that may be established by the city
as conditions for use of water.
   (B)   Fees or deposit. Application for a service installation shall be made
by the owner of the property to be served or by the owner’s agent. The
applicant shall at the time of making application pay to the city the amount of
the fees or deposit required for the installation of the service connection as
provided in this chapter. When a water service connection has been installed,
application for water service may be made either by the owner or the owner’s
agent or by the tenant or occupant of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 51.03)
§ 51.04 CHARGES FOR SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions. Utility connections must be made and determined to be
operational prior to November 1 or after April 1. Connections made during the
winter could still be attempted if the owner agrees to pay for any additional
expense incurred; however, the city would make no guarantee that such
connections would be possible.
   (B)   Permit and fee. No connection shall be made to the city water or
sanitary sewer system without a permit received from the Public Works
Department and made available from the Administrator. The fee for each such
permit shall be established by Council resolution. These fees shall be in
addition to any fees required under divisions (C), (D), and (E) below.
   (C)   Connection fees. When a connection requires installation of a service
line from the main to the property line, the applicant for a permit shall pay
to the city an amount not less than the cost of making the necessary
connections, taps, and installation of pipe and appurtenances to provide
service to the property and the necessary street repairs.
   (D)   Certification. No permit shall be issued to connect with any water or
sanitary sewer main unless the Public Works Department certifies to the truth
of one of the following or the payment required under division (E) below is
made:
      (1)   The lot or tract to be served has been assessed for the cost of
construction of the main with which the connection is made or that proceedings
for levying such assessment have been or will be commenced in due course;
      (2)   The cost of construction of the main has been paid by the developer
or builder platting the lot or tract; or
      (3)   If neither of the foregoing is true, a sum equal to the portion of
the cost of constructing the main which would be assessable against the lot or
parcel has been paid to the city.
   (E)   Additional connection fee. If no such certificate can be issued, the
applicant shall pay an additional connection fee equal to the portion of the
cost of construction of the main attributable to the property upon the same
basis as any assessment previously levied against other property for the main.
The determination shall be made by the Public Works Department. If no such
assessment has been levied, the assessable cost shall be determined upon the
basis of the uniform charge which may have been or will be charged for similar
connection with the main. The amount shall be determined on the basis of the
total assessable cost of the main allocated on the basis of frontage.
   (F)   Short term service. Services for less than six months will be subject
to a $15 per call connection or disconnection charge.
(Prior Code, § 51.04)
§ 51.05 ACCOUNTING, BILLING, AND COLLECTING.
   (A)   Accounts in name of owner. All accounts shall be carried in the name
of the owner or occupant of each building or housing served. The owner shall be
liable for service supplied to the owner’s property, whether occupied by the
property owner or not, and any charges unpaid shall be a lien upon the
property.
   (B)   Bills for service. Water, sewer, refuse, and landfill service charges
shall be billed together, as applicable to each account. Bills shall be mailed
to the customers on the twentieth of each month and specify the water consumed
and the sewer, water, refuse, and landfill charges in accordance with the rates
set by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Delinquent accounts. 
      (1)   All charges for water, sewer, refuse, and county landfill shall be
considered delinquent after the first of the month, unless the first of the
month is a weekend day or a holiday. Then the delinquent date shall be the
closest date following the first of the month after that weekend date or
holiday. A late payment penalty of 10% shall be assessed on all accounts with a
past due balance. An unpaid balance with $2 as a minimum shall not have a late
payment penalty assessed.
      (2)   When accounts have remained unpaid for 90 days and satisfactory
arrangements for payment have not been made, the Public Works Department may,
after the procedural requirements of division (D) below have been complied
with, discontinue service to the delinquent customer. When service to any
premises has been discontinued, service shall not be restored except upon the
payment of all delinquent bills and a fee of $30. Delinquent accounts shall be
certified to the City Administrator who shall prepare an assessment roll each
year providing for assessment of the delinquent amounts against the respective
property’s service. The assessment roll shall be delivered to the Council for
adoption on or before September 1 of any year. The Council shall levy an
assessment equal to the unpaid charge as of that date plus interest at the rate
of 8% per annum from that date and a penalty of 10%. The City Administrator
shall certify the assessment to the County Auditor for collection in the same
manner for assessments for local improvements. The action is optional and may
be subsequent to taking legal action to collect delinquent accounts.
   (D)   Procedure for discontinuance of service. Service shall not be
discontinued under division (C) above or for a violation of rules and
regulations affecting utility service until notice and an opportunity for a
hearing have first been given the occupant of the premises involved. The notice
shall be personally served or certified by mail and shall state that if payment
is not made before a day stated in the notice, but not less than five working
days after the date on which the notice is given, the service to the premises
will be discontinued. The notice shall also state that the occupant may, before
such date, demand a hearing on the matter, in which case the service will not
be cut off until after the hearing is held. If the customer requests a hearing
before the date specified, a hearing shall be held on the matter by the Public
Works Director at least one week after the date on which the request is made.
If as a result of the hearing the Public Works Director finds that the amount
claimed to be owing is actually due and unpaid and there is no legal reason why
the water supply of the delinquent customer may not discontinue in accordance
with this chapter, the city may discontinue service. The notice shall be
delivered 60 days from the first day account becomes delinquent. No service of
a residential customer shall be disconnected if the disconnection affects the
primary heat source for the residential unit when the disconnection would occur
during the period between October 15 and April 15, the customer has declared
inability to pay on forms provided by the city, the household income of the
customer is less than 185% of the federal poverty level as documented by the
customer to the city, and the customer’s account is current for the billing
period immediately prior to October 15 or the customer has entered into a
payment schedule and is reasonably current with payments under the schedule.
The city shall, between August 15 and October 15 of each year, notify all
residential customers of these provisions.
(Prior Code, § 51.05) (Ord. 174, passed 6-8-1992; Ord. 205, passed 3-10-1997)
§ 51.06 INSTALLATION FOR WATER AND SEWER SERVICE AND EQUIPMENT.
   The following shall be the minimum requirement when installing water and
sewer service lines or modifying existing property water and sewer systems in
the city, with the property owner being liable for their contractor adhering to
these requirements.
   (A)   A city application for service form must be completed prior to any
water or sewer service installation, either by the contractor or the property
owner. Precise location coordinates and/or as-built drawings will be provided
to the city by the contractor.
   (B)   The contractor will furnish and install a coated, solid copper tracer
wire on all non-conductive water and sewer service lines in the trench
alongside the pipe. Wire color will be blue for water and green for sewer.
   (C)   The tracer wire must be 12 gauge minimum and run continuously without
splices for the full length of the service line, from the building to water or
sewer main. If splicing is necessary, a direct buy splice kit is required.
   (D)   The tracer wire shall daylight at the point of entry at the foundation
of the building through PVC conduit and a blank box as a future contact point
to locate the service.
   (E)   Tracer wire will be installed on all new water main installations in
the street/roadway and will come to the surface at every fire hydrant for
termination.
   (F)   Depending on circumstances of a specific installation, the Water/Sewer
Department may also require that tracer wire be run to curb boxes, cleanouts,
or fire hydrants.
(Ord. 231, passed 5-14-2007)
CHAPTER 52: WATER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Meters
   
52.02   Plumbing regulations
   
52.03   Water rates
   
52.04   Applications for service
Regulations
   
52.15   Discontinuance of service
   
52.16   Supply from one service
   
52.17   Turning on water, tapping mains
   
52.18   Repair of leaks
   
52.19   Use of fire hydrants
   
52.20   Private water supply
   
52.21   Restricted hours
   
52.22   Permitting use by others
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 METERS.
   (A)   Meters provided. The city shall provide a water meter for each water
connection hereafter installed and for any connection not having a meter upon
the passage of this section.
   (B)   Fee. A water meter fee equal to no less than the cost of a suitable
meter shall be paid by the owner of the property when a meter is furnished by
the city as provided in this section.
   (C)   Maintenance of privately owned meters. The cost of repairs, including
material and labor, made by the city to a privately owned meter shall be paid
by the water customer using such meter.
(Prior Code, § 52.01)
§ 52.02 PLUMBING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Service pipes. Every service pipe shall be laid with sufficient bend
to allow not less than one foot of extra length and in such manner as to
prevent rupture by settlement. The service pipe shall be placed not less than
six feet below the surface and be so arranged as to prevent rupture by
freezing. A shut-off or other stop cork with waste valve of the size and
strength required shall be placed close to the inside wall of the building and
be well protected from freezing. Copper tubing shall be used for all services
of two inches or less. Joints on copper tubing shall be as few as possible and
not more than one joint shall be used for a service up to 70 feet in length.
Each joint shall be left uncovered until inspected by the city. Every service
over two inches long shall be cast iron, or whatever is acceptable in
accordance with the State Plumbing Code. Connections with the main for domestic
supply shall be at least three-fourths inch.
   (B)   Water meter setting. Every water meter shall be installed in
accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   The service pipe from the water main to the meter shall be brought
through the floor in a vertical position where the pipe enters the building.
The stop and waste valve shall be no less than 12 inches nor more than 24
inches above the floor.
      (2)   The top of the meter shall not be over three feet above the
finished floor line. The meter shall be set not more than 12 inches
horizontally from the inside line of the basement wall unless a different
position is approved by the Public Works Department. A suitable bracket shall
be provided to support the meter in a proper vertical position and prevent
noise from vibration.
      (3)   Each meter installation shall have a stop and waste valve on the
street side of the meter. In no case shall less than 12 inches nor more than 24
inches of pipe be exposed between the point of entrance through the basement
floor and the stop and waste valve. A stop and waste valve shall also be
installed on the house side of the meter.
      (4)   The water pipe connecting the main shall not exceed two feet under
the basement wall to the water meter connection.
      (5)   Meter setting devices for five-eights inch, three-fourths inch, and
one inch meters shall be of copper pipe or tubing from the terminus of the
service pipe up to and including the stop and waste valve on the building site.
   (C)   Location of stop boxes. Curb stop boxes shall be installed generally
where desired by the owners of occupied properties, but they shall be placed as
near as possible to the curb if on a street or within one foot of the alley
line if the main is located in the alley. They shall be installed at an
approximate depth of six feet below the established grade and shall be left in
an accurate vertical position when back- filling is completed.
(Prior Code, § 52.02)
§ 52.03 WATER RATES.
   Water rate service charges and rate changes shall be by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 52.03) (Ord. 207, passed 5-10-1999)
§ 52.04 APPLICATIONS FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Procedure. Application for obtaining water directly from the water
tower shall be made to the Public Works Director or forms prescribed by the
Public Works Director and furnished by the city at the Administrator’s office.
By signature, the applicant shall agree to conform to this chapter and to rules
and regulations that may be established by the city as conditions for use of
water.
   (B)   Application fee. An application fee of $20 shall accompany each
application submitted and shall remain in effect through December 31 of the
same year.
   (C)   Requirements. Each water user obtaining water directly from the water
tower shall be required to complete the date, consumption amount, and signature
on the application form each time water is obtained.
   (D)   Rates. Each water user of the water tower shall pay a rate determined
by the City Council by resolution from time to time. The total gallon
consumption shall be billed to the applicant on an annual basis in the month of
December.
(Prior Code, § 52.04) (Ord. 166A, passed 5-9-1989)
REGULATIONS
§ 52.15 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The city may discontinue service to any water consumer without notice for
necessary repairs or, upon notice as provided in §
51.05(D), for nonpayment of charges or for violation of rules and regulations
affecting utility service.
(Prior Code, § 52.20)
§ 52.16 SUPPLY FROM ONE SERVICE.
   No more than one house or building shall be supplied from one service
connection except by special permission of the Council. Whenever two or more
parties are supplied from one pipe connecting with a service main, each
building or part of building separately supplied shall have a separate stop box
and a separate meter.
(Prior Code, § 52.21)
§ 52.17 TURNING ON WATER, TAPPING MAINS.
   No person except an authorized city employee shall turn on any water supply
at the stop box or tap any distributing main or pipe of the water supply or
system or insert a stop cork or other appurtenance therein without a city
permit.
(Prior Code, § 52.22) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.18 REPAIR OF LEAKS.
   The consumer or owner shall be responsible for maintaining the service pipe
from the curb box into the building served. If the consumer or owner fails to
repair any leak in such service pipe within 24 hours after notice by the city,
the city may turn the water off. The water shall not then be turned on again
until an amount determined by Council resolution from time to time has been
paid to the city. When the waste of water is great or damage is likely to
result from the leak, the city shall turn the water off immediately upon the
giving of notice if repair is not commenced immediately.
(Prior Code, § 52.23)
§ 52.19 USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person other than an authorized city employee or city firefighter shall
operate a fire hydrant or interfere in any way with the city water system
without first obtaining authority to do so from the Public Works Department.
(Prior Code, § 52.24)
§ 52.20 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY.
   No water pipe of the city water system shall be connected with any pump,
well, or tank that is connected with any other source of water supply. When any
such connection is found, the Public Works Department shall notify the owner to
sever the connection and, if this is not done immediately, the city shall turn
off the water supply forthwith. Before any new connection to the city system is
permitted, the Public Works Department shall ascertain that no cross-connection
will exist when the new connection is made.
(Prior Code, § 52.25)
§ 52.21 RESTRICTED HOURS.
   Whenever the Council determines that a shortage of water supply threatens
the city, it may, by resolution, limit the times and hours during which city
water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car washing, air conditioning, or
other specified uses. After publication of the resolution or two days after
mailing of the resolution to each customer, no person shall use or permit water
to be used in violation of the resolution and any customer who does so shall be
charged $100 for each day of violation and the charge shall be added to the
customer’s next water bill. If the emergency requires immediate compliance with
terms of the resolution, the Council may provide for the delivery of a copy of
the resolution to the premises of each customer, and any customer who has
received such notice and thereafter uses or permits water to be used in
violation of the resolution shall be subject to the charge provided above.
Continued violation shall be cause for discontinuance of water service.
(Prior Code, § 52.26)
§ 52.22 PERMITTING USE BY OTHERS.
   No person shall permit city water to be used for any purpose except upon the
person’s own premises except in an emergency and then only if written
permission is first obtained from the Public Works Department. Anyone wishing
to obtain water from a hydrant for construction purposes shall make application
to the Public Works Department for such services.
(Prior Code, § 52.27) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 53: SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.001   Definitions
   
53.002   Control by authorized representative
   
53.003   Tampering prohibited
   
53.004   Use of public sewers required
   
53.005   Powers and authority of inspectors
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
53.020   Connection required
   
53.021   Permit
   
53.022   Compliance
   
53.023   Facilities maintained in a sanitary manner
   
53.024   Connection to public sewer
   
53.025   Additional requirements
Building Sewers and Connections
   
53.040   Permit for connection required
   
53.041   Existing building sewers; elevation
   
53.042   Conformance with requirements
   
53.043   Unpolluted water sources
   
53.044   Connection supervised by designated representative
   
53.045   Construction license
   
53.046   License for sewer service connection
   
53.047   Suspension or revocation of license
Use of Public Wastewater Treatment Facilities
   
53.060   Unpolluted water or stormwater
   
53.061   Prohibited discharges
   
53.062   Limited discharges
   
53.063   Actions of representative
   
53.064   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
53.065   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
53.066   Testing equipment
   
53.067   Accidental discharges
   
53.068   Repairs
   
53.069   Cost of repairs
   
53.070   Special agreements
   
53.071   Sump pumps
   
53.072   Maintenance and repair of sewer lines
Sewer Service Charge System
   
53.085   Establishment
   
53.086   Sewer Service Fund
   
53.087   Administration of Fund
   
53.088   Determination of sewer service charges
 
   
53.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also referred to as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   BOD5 or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND. The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedures in
five days at 20°C and as expressed in terms of milligram per liter (mg/l).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The point of a building which conveys wastewater to the
building sewer, beginning immediately outside the building wall.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. A charge to users of the wastewater treatment facility
for the purpose of repaying capital costs.
   EQUIVALENT RESIDENTIAL UNIT (ERU). A unit of wastewater volume of 100
gallons per day at a strength not greater than NDSW.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. This term includes the following:
      (1)   Any entity, as defined in the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual (latest edition) as categorized, that discharges wastewater to the
public sewer, including:
         (a)   Division A: Agriculture, Forestry, and Fishing;
         (b)   Division B: Mining;
         (c)   Division D: Manufacturing;
         (d)   Division E: Transportation, Communications, Electric, Gas, and
Sanitary Sewers; and
         (e)   Division I: Services.
      (2)   Any user whose discharges, single or by interaction with other
wastes, contaminate the sludge of the wastewater treatment system, injure or
interfere with the treatment process, create a public nuisance or hazard, have
an adverse effect on the waters receiving wastewater treatment plant
discharges, exceed NDSW limitations, or exceed normal residential unit volumes
of wastewater.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW (I/I). Water other than wastewater that enters the sewer
system from the ground or from surface runoff, as defined in Minnesota Rules.
   MPCA. Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. Federal regulations
establishing pretreatment standards for introduction of pollutants in publicly
owned wastewater treatment facilities. (Section 307(b) of the Act, 33 U.S.C. §
1317b.)
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued by the MPCA setting limits on pollutants that a permittee may legally
discharge pursuant to §§ 402 and 405 of the Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1342 and 1345.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewers,
which flows into a body of surface water or ground water.
   NONRESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facility whose building is not
used as a private residence and discharges NDSW.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE (NDSW). Wastewater that is primarily
introduced by residential users with BOD5 concentrations not greater than 200
mg/l and total suspended solids (TSS) concentrations not greater than 240 mg/l.
   OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPLACEMENT COSTS (OM&R). Expenditures necessary
to provide for the dependable, economical, and efficient functioning of the
treatment facility throughout its design life, including operator training and
permit fees. Replacement refers to equipment replacement costs, not the cost of
future replacement of the entire facility.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment facility whose building is used
primarily as a private residence and discharges NDSW.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal, also referred to as a service connection.
      (2)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer designed to carry only liquid and water-
carried wastes from residential, nonresidential, and industrial sources,
together with minor quantities of I/I.
      (3)   STORM SEWER. A sewer intended to carry unpolluted surface and
subsurface water from any source.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The total of the user charge and the debt service
charge.
   SLUG. A discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration or in
quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more
than five times the average 24-hour concentration of flows during normal
operation.
   STATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM (SDS) PERMIT. A permit issued by the MPCA pursuant to
M.S. § 115.07, as it may be amended from time to time, for a disposal system as
defined by M.S. § 115.01, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time.
   TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS). The total suspended matter that either floats
on the surface of or is in suspension in water, wastewater, or other liquids
and is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Wastewater (latest edition).
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standards. An example could be noncontact cooling water.
   USER CHARGE. A charge to users of a treatment facility for the user’s
proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance, including
replacement.
   WASTEWATER. Liquid and water-carried wastes from residential,
nonresidential, and industrial users, together with any ground water, surface
water, and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES or TREATMENT FACILITIES. The land, devices,
facilities, structures, equipment, and processes owned or used by the city for
the purpose of the transmission, storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation
of municipal wastewater and the disposal of residues resulting from such
treatment.
(Prior Code, § 53.01) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.002 CONTROL BY AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE.
   The City Council shall appoint an authorized representative who shall have
control and general supervision of all public sewers and service connections in
the community or sewer district and shall be responsible for administering the
provisions of this chapter to ensure that a proper and efficient public sewer
is maintained. The authorized representative may delegate responsibilities to
designated representatives.
(Prior Code, § 53.02) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.003 TAMPERING PROHIBITED.
   No person(s) shall willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover,
deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is part
of the wastewater treatment facilities. Any person violating this provision
shall be subject to immediate arrest under the charge of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 53.03) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.004 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Within 30 days of receiving official notification, the owners of all
properties within 500 feet of a sanitary sewer collection system shall install
a suitable service connection, at their own expense, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   In the event an owner shall fail to connect to a public sewer in
compliance with a notice given under this chapter, the community or sewer
district will have the connection made and shall assess the cost against the
benefitted property.
   (C)   Except as provided hereinafter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any private facility intended or used for the disposal of wastewater.
(Prior Code, § 53.04) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.005 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Duly authorized employee(s) of the community or sewer district,
bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter all
properties for inspection, observations, measurement, sampling, testing,
repair, and maintenance in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Industrial users shall be required to provide information concerning
industrial processes which have a direct bearing on the type and source of
discharge to the collection system. An industry may withhold information
considered confidential. However, the industry must establish that the
information in question might result in an advantage to competitors and that
the industrial process does not have deleterious results on the treatment
process.
(Prior Code, § 53.05) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 53.020 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
53.004, the building sewer shall be connected to a private wastewater disposal
system complying with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 53.15) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.021 PERMIT.
   Before construction of a private wastewater disposal system, the owner(s)
shall obtain a written permit signed by the authorized representative. The
permit shall not become effective until the installation is completed to the
representative’s satisfaction. A designated representative shall be allowed to
inspect any stage of construction. The applicant for the permit shall give
notification when ready for the system’s final inspection and before any
underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made within 72 hours
of the receipt of the notice.
(Prior Code, § 53.16) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.022 COMPLIANCE.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all requirements of Minn. Rules Chapter 7080, as it
may be amended from time to time, and applicable local ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 53.17) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.023 FACILITIES MAINTAINED IN A SANITARY MANNER.
   The owner(s) shall operate and maintain the private wastewater disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the community.
(Prior Code, § 53.18) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.024 CONNECTION TO PUBLIC SEWER.
   When the public sewer becomes available to a property serviced by a private
wastewater disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the public
sewer within 30 days in compliance with this chapter, and within 30 days
private wastewater disposal systems will be cleaned of all sludge. The bottom
shall be broken to permit drainage and the tank or pit filled with suitable
material.
(Prior Code, § 53.19) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.025 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the MPCA, the State
Department of Health, or other responsible federal, state, or local agencies.
(Prior Code, § 53.20) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.040 PERMIT FOR CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person(s) shall make any alterations to the public sewer or any
appurtenances thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
No private building drain shall extend beyond the limits of the building or
property for which the permit has been given.
   (B)   Any new connection to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities,
including, but not limited to, capacity for flow, BOD5, and TSS as determined
by the authorized representative.
(Prior Code, § 53.35) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.041 EXISTING BUILDING SEWERS; ELEVATION.
   (A)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for each
building. Old building sewers may be used to service new buildings only when
they are found to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer,
wastewater shall be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building
sewer.
(Prior Code, § 53.36) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.042 CONFORMANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS.
   The construction and connection of the building sewer to the public sewer
shall conform to the requirements of the state’s Building and Plumbing Code,
applicable rules and regulations of the city, and the materials and procedural
specifications set forth in the American Society of Testing Materials (ASTM)
and the Water Pollution Control Federation (WPCF) Manual of Practice No. 9. All
such connections shall be made gas and water tight and verified by proper
testing to prevent I/I.
(Prior Code, § 53.37) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.043 UNPOLLUTED WATER SOURCES.
   No unpolluted water sources shall be connected to the sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 53.38) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.044 CONNECTION SUPERVISED BY DESIGNATED REPRESENTATIVE.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the community or
sewer district when the building sewer is ready for connection to the public
sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of a designated
representative.
(Prior Code, § 53.39) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.045 CONSTRUCTION LICENSE.
   An appropriate construction license is required to install a service
connection. Any person desiring a license shall apply in writing to the City
Council, providing satisfactory evidence of the applicant’s qualifications. If
approved by the Council, the license shall be issued by a designated
representative upon the filing of a bond as provided in §
53.046.
(Prior Code, § 53.40) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.046 LICENSE FOR SEWER SERVICE CONNECTION.
   (A)   A license for sewer service connection installation shall not be
issued until a $2,000 bond or a $300 cash bond to the community is filed and
approved by the Council. The licensee will indemnify the community from all
suits, accidents, and damage that may arise by reason of any opening in any
street, alley, or public ground made by the licensee or by those in the
licensee’s employment.
   (B)   The cost of a license for making service connections is $50. All
licenses shall expire on December 31 of the license year unless the license is
suspended or revoked by the Council for any reasonable cause.
(Prior Code, § 53.41) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.047 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Council may suspend or revoke any license issued under this subchapter
for any of the following causes:
   (A)   Giving false information in connection with the application for a
license;
   (B)   Incompetence of the licensee;
   (C)   Willful violation of any provisions of this subchapter or any rule or
regulation pertaining to the making of service connections; or
   (D)   Failure to adequately protect and indemnify the city and the user.
(Prior Code, § 53.42) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
USE OF PUBLIC WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES
§ 53.060 UNPOLLUTED WATER OR STORMWATER.
   No unpolluted water or stormwater shall be discharged to the sanitary sewer.
Such water shall be discharged only to storm sewers or to natural outlets
approved by the city and other regulatory agencies.
(Prior Code, § 53.55) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.061 PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   No person(s) shall discharge any of the following substances to the public
sewer:
   (A)   Liquids, solids, gases, or other substances which singly or by
interaction with others may cause fire or explosion;
   (B)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow in
a sewer;
   (C)   Wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 or greater than 9.5 or having
any other corrosive or caustic property capable of causing damage or hazard; or
   (D)   Wastewater containing toxic pollutants, as defined in § 307(a) of the
Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C. § 1317(a) and M.S. § 115.01, Subd. 20,
as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 53.56) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.062 LIMITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Discharges of the following substances shall be limited to
concentrations or quantities which will not harm the wastewater facility,
streams, soils, vegetation, or ground water and will not otherwise create a
hazard or nuisance. The authorized representative may set limitations lower
than the prohibition limits outlined below.
   (B)   Consideration will be given to such factors as the quantity of waste
in relation to flows and velocities, materials of construction, the city’s
NPDES and SDS permits, capacity of the treatment plant, degree of treatability
of wastes, and other pertinent factors:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature greater than 150°F (65.6°C) or
causing, individually or in combination with other wastewater, the influent at
the treatment facilities to have a temperature exceeding 104°F (40°C) or having
heat in amounts which will be detrimental to biological activity in the
treatment facilities;
      (2)   Wastewater containing fats, wax, grease, or oils in excess of 100
mg/l or containing substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32°F and 150°F (0°C and 65.6°C);
      (3)   A discharge of water or wastewater which in concentration or in
quantity of flow exceeds for any period of duration longer than 15 minutes more
than five times the average 24-hour concentration of flows during normal
operation;
      (4)   Food wastes not properly shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under normal flow conditions with no particle
greater than one-half inch in any dimension;
      (5)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids;
      (6)   Wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process;
      (7)   Wastewater containing inert suspended solids in such quantities
that would cause disruption to the wastewater treatment facilities;
      (8)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes in concentrations that exceed limits
established by applicable state and federal regulations;
      (9)   Wastewaters with BOD5 or suspended solids levels that require
additional treatment, except as may be permitted by specific written agreement
with the city subject to §
53.065; and
      (10)   Wastewater containing substances which cannot be treated to
produce effluent quality required by the permit or causes a violation of any
applicable local, state, or federal regulation.
(Prior Code, § 53.57) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.063 ACTIONS OF REPRESENTATIVE.
   (A)   In the event of discharges to the public sewers which contain
substances or possess characteristics prohibited in §§
53.061 and
53.062 or which, in the judgement of the representative, may have a deleterious
effect to the treatment facility, receiving water, soils, vegetation, or which
create a hazard or nuisance, the representative may:
      (1)   Refuse to accept the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to
the public sewers, pursuant to § 307(b) of the Act and all addenda thereof;
      (3)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and
      (4)   Require payment to cover all the added costs of handling, treating,
and disposing of wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
   (B)   If the representative permits the pretreatment or equalization of
waste flows, the design, installation, maintenance, and efficient operation of
the facilities and equipment shall be at the owner’s expense and shall be
subject to review and approval by the city pursuant to the requirements of the
MPCA.
(Prior Code, § 53.58) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.064 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   No user shall increase the use of process water or in any manner attempt to
dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment
to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in this subchapter, the
national categorical pretreatment standards, and any state or local
requirement.
(Prior Code, § 53.59) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.065 GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided at the owner’s
expenses when, in the opinion of the representative, they are necessary for the
proper handling of liquid wastes containing floatable grease in excessive
amounts, any flammable wastes, sand, or other harmful ingredients. All
interceptors shall be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection. The owner shall be responsible for the maintenance of interceptors,
including proper removal and disposal of the captured materials by appropriate
means and shall maintain a record of dates and means of disposal which are
subject to review by the representative.
   (B)   Any material removal and hauling must be performed by the owner’s
personnel or a currently licensed waste disposal firm and in compliance with
all applicable laws and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 53.60) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.066 TESTING EQUIPMENT.
   Where required by the representative, industrial users shall install and
maintain at their own expense a suitable structure or control manhole with such
necessary meters and other testing equipment needed to facilitate observation,
sampling, and measurement of wastewater. The manhole will be safe and
accessible at all times. The Council may require submission of laboratory
analyses to illustrate compliance with this chapter and any special conditions
for discharge established by the Council or responsible regulatory agency. All
measurements, tests, and analyses to which reference is made in this chapter
shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods
of the Examination of Water and Wastewater, published by the American Public
Health Association and kept for a period of one year.
(Prior Code, § 53.61) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.067 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Where required by the representative, users shall provide protection
from an accidental discharge of substances regulated by this chapter. Where
necessary, facilities to prevent accidental discharges of prohibited materials
shall be provided and maintained at the owner’s expenses. Detailed plans and
operating procedures of the facilities shall be submitted to the representative
for review and approval prior to construction of the facility. Approval of such
plans and operating procedures shall not relieve user from the responsibility
of modifying the facility as necessary to meet the requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Users shall notify the representative immediately if a slug or
accidental discharge of wastewater occurs in violation of this chapter.
Notification will allow measures to be taken to minimize damage to the
treatment facilities. Notification will not relieve users of liability for any
expense, loss, or damage to the treatment facilities or for fines imposed on
the community or sewer district by any state or federal agency as a result of
their actions.
   (C)   A notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or
other prominent place advising employees of the emergency notification
procedure in the event of a slug or accidental discharge.
(Prior Code, § 53.62) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.068 REPAIRS.
   (A)   No person shall permit any substance or matter which may form a
deposit or obstruction of flow to be discharged into the public sewer. Whenever
any service connection becomes clogged, obstructed, detrimental to the use of
the public sewer, or unfit for the purpose of drainage, the owner shall make
repairs as directed by the representative.
   (B)   Each day after 30 days that the owner neglects to make the repairs
shall constitute a separate violation of this section. The representative may
then cause the work to be done and recover related expenses from the owner or
agent by an action in the name of the community or sewer district.
(Prior Code, § 53.63) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993) Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.069 COST OF REPAIRS.
   In addition to penalties that may be imposed for violation of any provision
of this subchapter, the city may assess against the user/owner the cost of
repairing or restoring sewers and associated facilities damaged as a result of
the discharge of prohibited wastes and may collect the assessment as an
additional charge for the use of the public sewer system.
(Prior Code, § 53.64) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.070 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall prevent any special
agreement or arrangement between the community of the city and any industrial
user. Industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the
facility for treatment, subject to adequate payment by the industrial user,
providing that national categorical pretreatment standards and the city’s NPDES
and SDS permit limitations are not violated.
(Prior Code, § 53.65) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.071 SUMP PUMPS.
   (A)   Prohibited water. It shall be unlawful for any owner, occupant, or
user of any premises to direct into or allow any storm water, surface water,
ground water, well water, or water from industrial or commercial air
conditioning systems to drain into the sanitary sewer system of the city. No
person(s) shall make connection of roof down spouts, foundation drains, areaway
drains, sump pumps, or other sources of surface runoff or ground water to a
building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer (unless such connection is approved by
the city).
   (B)   Exceptions. In certain locations where surface storm water discharge
would create a safety hazard during freezing weather, connection to the
sanitary sewer may be maintained from October 15 to April 15. In no case shall
any connection to the sanitary sewer be maintained from April 15 to October 15.
Exceptions will be granted by permit on a case by case basis as determined by
the City Council.
   (C)   Sump, pump, and rigid pipe; method of installation.
      (1)   The building shall have a drain tile placed around the inside or
outside perimeter of the foundation connected to a sump pit. All baseboard
seepage collection systems shall be discharged to the sump pit. The sump pit
shall be located at least ten feet away from the inside sanitary floor drain.
      (2)   A discharge pipe shall be installed to the outside wall of the
building with rigid pipe (plastic, copper, galvanized, or black pipe) one inch
inside diameter minimum. The discharge pipe must have a check valve within one
foot of the floor grade and a union or other approved coupling for easy
disconnection for repair or replacement. The discharge shall extend at least
three feet outside of the foundation wall.
      (3)   Alternate methods of installation include the following.
         (a)   The discharge pipe may be connected directly to the municipal
underground storm sewer system, provided the discharge is at a higher elevation
than the normal flow level and that an approved backflow prevention device is
installed.
         (b)   The discharge may be connected directly to the municipal curb
and gutter system, provided the pipe is placed under the sidewalk or boulevard
and through the back of the curb and that an approved backflow prevention
device is installed.
   (D)   Violation. Each property within the city to which there is a sanitary
sewer connection shall receive an annual surcharge in the sum of $75 per month,
fine of $750, or both. This surcharge shall be paid with the monthly sewer
charges. The owner of any building who permits the city to make thorough and
complete inspection of the building and premises to determine that there is no
unauthorized or prohibited connection to the sanitary sewer shall have such
surcharge abated. This surcharge may be reimposed at any time the city
reasonably believes unauthorized connection of the sanitary sewer has been made
and shall be abated only upon proof by inspection by city personnel that no
such connection exists. Surcharge shall begin July 1, 1994. In the event that
the owner fails to correct the situation within the given time period, the city
may correct it and collect such costs, together with reasonable attorneys fees
and the collection fees, by suing the owner in a court of competent
jurisdiction, or in the alternative, by certifying the costs of correction as
any other special assessment upon the land from which the correction of the
violation was made.
   (E)   Powers and authority of inspections. The City Administrator will
appoint duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification who shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purpose
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing pertinent to
discharge to the community system in accordance with the provisions of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 53.66) (Ord. 180, passed 7-13-1993; Ord. 211, passed 2-14-2000)
Penalty, see §
53.999
§ 53.072 MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR OF SEWER LINES.
   (A)   Any and all repairs, maintenance, replacement, or construction of
sanitary sewer lines or pipes upon any private or city property within the city
shall be done so under the direct supervision of the city or its designated
agents.
   (B)   Except for proceeding undertaken for special assessments with the
meaning to M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time, all
repair, alteration, and maintenance of any trunk sanitary sewer lines located
within the city shall be undertaken by the city at its own cost and expense.
TRUNK SANITARY SEWER LINE shall be defined as any main sanitary sewer line
downstream from a manhole directly on that line.
   (C)   All lateral service pipes serving individual owners shall be
maintained, replaced, repaired, or altered at the expense of the private
property owner from the curb plane or the property line to the private
residence, commercial structure, or other facility being served by the sanitary
sewer service and from the curb plane or property line to the city trunk line
shall be the city’s responsibility. LATERAL SERVICE PIPES shall be defined as
any line connecting to a trunk line and intended to serve individual property
or properties.
   (D)   Any cost whatsoever incurred by the city to repair, replace, maintain,
or alter a sanitary sewer line in the city, which cost is properly that of a
property owner, as opposed to the city according to the terms or this section,
shall be paid within 30 days by the private owner to the city upon presentment
of a statement therefor.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the City Administrator to inform the City
Council on October 1 of each year of any sums not so paid after due presentment
to the private property owner.
      (2)   Thereupon it shall be the obligation of the City Council to certify
the unpaid sums over to the County Auditor to be collected in the mode and
manner provided by statute for the collection of special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 53.67) (Ord. 179, passed 8-10-1993; Ord. 193, passed 3-14-1995)
SEWER SERVICE CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 53.085 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   The city establishes a sewer service charge system. All revenue
collected from users of the wastewater treatment facilities will be used for
annual operation, maintenance, replacement, and capital costs. Each user shall
pay a proportionate share of operation, maintenance, and replacement costs
based on the user’s proportionate contribution to the total wastewater loading.
   (B)   Charges to users of the wastewater treatment facility shall be
determined and fixed in a sewer service charge system (SSCS) developed
according to the provisions of this subchapter. The SSCS adopted by resolution
upon enactment of this subchapter shall be published in the local newspaper and
shall be effective upon publication. Subsequent changes in the sewer service
rates and charges shall be adopted by Council resolution and published in the
local paper.
   (C)   Revenues collected through the SSCS shall be deposited in a separate
fund known as the Sewer Service Fund (SSF).
(Prior Code, § 53.80) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.086 SEWER SERVICE FUND.
   (A)   The city establishes a Sewer Service Fund as an income fund to receive
all revenues generated by the SSCS and all other income dedicated to the
wastewater treatment facility.
   (B)   The SSF administered by a designated representative shall be separate
and apart from all other accounts. Revenues received by the SSF shall be
transferred to the following accounts established as income and expenditure
accounts:
      (1)   Operation and maintenance;
      (2)   Equipment replacement; and
      (3)   Debt retirement for the treatment facility (if any).
(Prior Code, § 53.81) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.087 ADMINISTRATION OF FUND.
   (A)   A designated representative shall maintain a proper system of accounts
and records suitable for determining the operation, maintenance, replacement
(OM&R), and debt retirement costs for the treatment facilities and shall
furnish the Council with a report of such costs annually.
   (B)   At that time the Council shall determine whether sufficient revenue is
being generated for the effective management of the facilities and debt
retirement. The Council will also determine whether the user charges are
distributed proportionately. If necessary, the SSCS shall be revised to ensure
proportionality of user charges and sufficient funds.
   (C)   In accordance with state requirements, each user will be notified
annually in conjunction with a regular billing of that portion of the sewer
service charge attributable to OM&R.
   (D)   Sewer service charges shall be billed on a monthly basis. Any bill not
paid in full 60 days after the due date will be considered delinquent. At that
time the user will be notified regarding the delinquent bill and subsequent
penalty. The penalty shall be computed as 10% of the original bill and shall be
increased by the same percent for every month the bill is outstanding.
(Prior Code, § 53.82) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.088 DETERMINATION OF SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   Users of the wastewater treatment facilities shall be permitted
into one of the following classes:
         (a)   Residential;
         (b)   Nonresidential; and
         (c)   Industrial.
      (2)   Charges to users who discharge NDSW will be calculated on the basis
of metered water use.
   (B)   Each user shall pay operation, maintenance, and replacement costs in
proportion to the user’s contribution of wastewater flows and loadings to the
treatment plant, with a minimum rate for loadings of BOD and TSS being the rate
established for normal domestic strength waste (NDSW) concentrations. Those
industrial users discharging only segregated NDSW can be classified as
nonresidential users for the purposes of rate determination.
   (C)   Charges for residential and nonresidential users will be determined
proportionately according to billable wastewater flow.
      (1)   Residential users. Billable wastewater volume for residential users
shall be calculated on the basis of metered water usage. The monthly billable
wastewater volume will be equal to the monthly metered water usage. The city
may require residential users to install water meters for the purpose of
determining billable wastewater volume.
      (2)   Nonresidential users. Billable wastewater volume of nonresidential
users may be determined in the same manner as for residential users. The city
may require nonresidential users to install such additional water meters or
wastewater flow meters as may be necessary to determine billable wastewater
volume.
   (D)   The sewer service charges established in this subchapter will not
prevent the assessment of additional charges to users who discharge wastes in
concentrations greater than NDSW or of unusual character (industrial users).
Special contractual agreements can be made with such users, subject to the
following conditions:
      (1)   The user pays OM&R costs in proportion to the user’s contribution
of wastewater flows and loadings to the treatment facility, and no user is
charged at a rate inferior to the charge for normal domestic strength wastes;
and
      (2)   The sampling of wastewater shall be conducted in accordance with
the techniques established in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater, latest edition.
   (E)   Determination of user charges:
      (1)   For producers of normal domestic strength wastes:
 
      Uomr = OM&R
              Tbwv
Where: Uomr = Unit cost for operation, maintenance, and equipment replacement
              in $/Kgal.
      OM&R = Total annual OM&R costs.
      Tbwv = Total annual billable wastewater flow in Kgal.
 
      (2)   Calculation of user charges:
 
      Uc   = Uomr x Bwv + Base
Where: Uc   = User charge.
      Uomr = Unit cost for operation, maintenance, and equipment replacement
              in $/Kgal.
      Bwv  = Billable wastewater volume in Kgal.
      Base = Base charge for administration costs.
 
   (F)   Local construction costs for the wastewater treatment facility will be
recovered through a debt service charge calculated in a manner consistent with
the user charge as follows.
      (1)   Calculation of unit cost for debt service:
 
      Uads = Ads
              Tbwv
Where: Uads = Unit cost for annual debt service ($/Kgal).
      Ads  = Cost of annual debt service.
      Tbwv = Total annual billable wastewater volume (Kgal).
 
      (2)   Calculation of debt service charge:
 
      Dsc = Uds x Bwv
Where: Dsc = Debt service charge.
      Uds = Unit charge for debt service ($/Kgal).
      Bwv = Billable wastewater volume of a single user (Kgal).
 
   (G)   The sewer service charge for a particular connection shall be
determined as follows:
 
      SSC = UC + DSC
Where: SSC = Sewer service charge.
      UC  = User charge.
      DSC = Debt service charge.
 
(Prior Code, § 53.83) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
§ 53.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Upon determination that a user has violated or is violating applicable
provisions of this chapter or related permits, the authorized representative
may issue a notice of violation. Within 30 days of such notification, the
violator shall submit to the authorized representative an adequate explanation
for the violation and a plan for the correction and prevention of such
occurrences, including specific actions required. Submission of such a plan in
no way relieves the violator of liability of any violation occurring before or
after the issuance of the notice of violation.
   (B)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be prosecuted accordingly. Each day in
which any such violation occurs shall be deemed as a separate offense. Such
fines may be added to the user’s next sewer service charge and will hence be
subject to the same collection regulations as specified in this chapter. Users
desiring to dispute a fine must file a request for the authorized
representative to reconsider within 30 days of the issuance of the fine. If the
authorized representative believes that the request has merit, a hearing on the
matter shall be convened within 30 days of the receipt of the request.
   (C)   To collect delinquent sewer service charge accounts, the community or
sewer district may file a civil action suit or levy a lien against the
violator. Related attorneys fees fixed by court order shall also be collected.
The violator shall be liable for interest on all balances at a rate of 18%
annually.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned by the
community or sewer district by reason of such violation.
(Prior Code, § 53.98) (Ord. 181, passed 8-10-1993)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
      
73.   SNOWMOBILES
      
74.   GOLF CARTS
      
75.   OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
      
76.   ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Statutes adopted
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Through streets; one-way streets
   
70.04   Truck restrictions
   
70.05   Seasonal weight restrictions
   
70.06   Establishment of safety zones, lanes of traffic, and the like
   
70.07   Police duties
   
70.08   Impoundment fee
§ 70.01 STATUTES ADOPTED.
   (A)   M.S. Chapter 169, in its entirety and as amended, is herein
incorporated as part of this code.
   (B)   Any violation of the statutes adopted by reference in division (A)
above is a violation of this code, and a violator guilty of the offense shall
be punishable by the penalty as is prescribed by the statutes.
(Prior Code, § 70.01)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Any term used in this code and defined in M.S. § 169.011, as amended, has
the meaning given it by that section.
(Prior Code, § 70.02)
§ 70.03 THROUGH STREETS; ONE-WAY STREETS.
   The Council, by resolution, may designate any street or portion of street as
a through highway or a one-way roadway where necessary to preserve the free
flow of traffic or to prevent accidents. The city’s Public Works Department
shall post appropriate signs at the entrance to such a street. No trunk highway
shall be so designated unless the consent of the Commission of Highways to such
designation is first secured.
(Prior Code, § 70.03)
§ 70.04 TRUCK RESTRICTIONS.
   The Council, by resolution, may designate streets on which travel by
commercial vehicles in excess of 1,000 pounds per axle gross weight is
prohibited. The Public Works Department shall erect appropriate signs on such
streets. No person shall operate a commercial vehicle on such posted streets in
violation of the restrictions stated.
(Prior Code, § 70.04) (Ord. 208, passed 6-14-1999; Ord. 218, passed 9-10-2002)
§ 70.05 SEASONAL WEIGHT RESTRICTIONS.
   The Public Works Department may prohibit the operation of vehicles upon any
street under the Department’s jurisdiction or impose weight restrictions on
vehicles to be operated on such streets whenever the street, by reason of
deterioration, rain, snow, or other climatic conditions, will be seriously
damaged or destroyed unless the use of vehicles on the street is prohibited or
the permissible weights thereof reduced. The Public Works Director shall erect
and maintain signs plainly indicating the prohibition or restriction at each
end of that portion of the street affected. No person shall operate a vehicle
on a posted street in violation of the prohibition or restriction.
(Prior Code, § 70.05)
§ 70.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF SAFETY ZONES, LANES OF TRAFFIC, AND THE LIKE.
   To assist in the direction and control of traffic, to improve safe driving
conditions at any intersection or dangerous location and to warn pedestrians or
drivers of motor vehicles of dangerous conditions or hazards, the Chief of
Police may establish safety zones, lanes of traffic, and stop intersections and
may order installation by the Public Works Department of stop signs, yield
signs, warning signs, signals, pavement markings, or other devices. No
regulation may be established on a trunk highway unless the consent of the
Commission of Highways is first secured.
(Prior Code, § 70.06)
§ 70.07 POLICE DUTIES.
   The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of this code and the
state traffic laws. Police officers are authorized to direct all traffic within
the city, either in person or by means of visible or audible signal, in
conformity with this code and the state traffic laws. During a fire or other
emergency or to expedite traffic or safeguard pedestrians, officers of the
Police Department may direct traffic as conditions require, notwithstanding the
provisions of this code and the state traffic laws. Officers of the Fire
Department may direct or assist the police in directing traffic at the scene of
a fire or in the immediate vicinity.
(Prior Code, § 70.07)
§ 70.08 IMPOUNDMENT FEE.
   In the occasion that the city’s Police Department, for whatever lawful or
purposeful reason, does impound a vehicle in the city’s impound lot, a fee of
$10 per day, for which the vehicle is impounded, will be charged to the owner
of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 70.08) (Ord. 221, passed 8-12-2002)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Turning
   
71.02   Speed limit in school zones
   
71.03   Exhibition driving prohibited
§ 71.01 TURNING.
   (A)   Restriction on turns. The Council, by resolution, may, whenever
necessary to preserve a free flow of traffic or to prevent accidents, designate
any intersection as one where the turning of vehicles to the left or to the
right, or both, is to be restricted at all times or during specified hours. The
Public Works Department shall mark by appropriate signs any intersection so
designated. No intersection on a trunk highway shall be so designated until the
consent of the Commission of Highways to such designation is first obtained. No
person shall turn a vehicle at any such intersection contrary to the directions
on such signs.
   (B)   U-turns. U-turns are not allowed unless specifically permitted by a
sign or notice. For the purpose of the section, u-turns, in addition to its
generally accepted definition, are also considered to include the following:
      (1)   The parking of a motor vehicle by making a left-hand turn across an
opposing lane of traffic;
      (2)   The backing out of a parking space across the centerline of the
roadway; and
      (3)   The backing out of a parking space in such a manner as to result in
the front of the motor vehicle facing in the direction of on-coming traffic.
(Prior Code, § 71.01) (Ord. 185, passed 6-14-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.02 SPEED LIMIT IN SCHOOL ZONES.
   School speed limit zones are established on the following streets: Third
Street West between Birch Avenue and Cedar Avenue; Fourth Street West between
Ash Avenue and Douglas Avenue; Fifth Street West between Ash Avenue and Birch
Avenue; and Birch Avenue between Sixth Street West and Third Street West. Upon
the erection of appropriate signs designating the beginning and ending of such
speed limit zones, no person shall drive a vehicle within the zones designated
by this section in excess of 20 mph when children are present, going to, or
leaving school during opening or closing hours or during school recess periods.
(Prior Code, § 71.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 71.03 EXHIBITION DRIVING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate, or otherwise operate a motor
vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine noise or
backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of sand or
gravel, or in a manner simulating a race. Squealing or screeching sounds
emitted by tires or the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires is prima facie
evidence of a violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 71.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
Section
   
72.01   Angle and parallel parking
   
72.02   No parking, stopping, or standing
   
72.03   Time limit parking zones
   
72.04   Truck zones, loading zones, and the like
   
72.05   Bus stops and taxi stands
   
72.06   Winter parking
   
72.07   Impoundment
   
72.08   Prima facie violation
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 ANGLE AND PARALLEL PARKING.
   Angle parking shall be required on the following streets: Main Street
between Cedar Avenue and Ash Avenue; Cedar Avenue between Second Street West
and Second Street East; and Birch Avenue between Second Street West and Second
Street East. On any such street every vehicle parked shall be parked with the
front of the vehicle facing the curb or the edge of the traveled portion of the
street at an angle of approximately 45 degrees. On all other streets, cars
shall be parked parallel to the curb or edge of the roadway in accordance with
law.
(Prior Code, § 72.01)
§ 72.02 NO PARKING, STOPPING, OR STANDING.
   The Council may, by resolution, designate certain streets or portions of
streets as no parking or no stopping or standing zones and may limit the hours
in which the restrictions apply. The Public Works Department shall mark by
appropriate signs each zone so designated. Except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police
officer or a traffic control device, no person shall stop or park a vehicle in
an established no stopping or standing zone when stopping or standing is
prohibited. No vehicle shall be parked in a no-parking zone during hours when
parking is prohibited except that a vehicle may be parked temporarily in such
zone for the purpose of forming a funeral procession and a truck may be parked
temporarily during any business day for the purpose of loading or unloading
where access to the premises is not otherwise available.
(Prior Code, § 72.02) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 TIME LIMIT PARKING ZONES.
   The Council may, by resolution, designate certain areas where the right to
park is limited during hours specified. The Public Works Director shall mark by
appropriate signs each zone so designated. During the hours specified on the
sign, no person shall park a vehicle in any limited parking zone for a longer
period than is so specified.
(Prior Code, § 72.03)
§ 72.04 TRUCK ZONES, LOADING ZONES, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Establishment. The Council may, by resolution, establish spaces in
streets as loading zones or truck zones. The hours of 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. of
any day except Sunday, New Year’s Day, Memorial Day, July 4, Labor Day,
Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day, or such other time as the Council may
specify in the resolution establishing the zone, shall be the loading zone or
truck zone hours. The Police Chief shall mark each such zone by appropriate
signs painted by the Public Works Department.
   (B)   Loading zone prohibitions. During loading zone hours, no person shall
stop, stand, or park any vehicle in a loading zone except to receive or
discharge passengers or freight and then only for a period no longer than is
necessary for the purpose. No person shall occupy a loading zone with a vehicle
other than a truck for more than five minutes during such hours.
   (C)   Property owner initiative. Any person desiring the establishment of a
loading zone or truck zone abutting premises occupied by the owner shall make
written application therefor to the Council. If the Council grants the request,
the proper city officer shall bill the applicant for the estimated cost of
placing signs and of painting the curb. When the amount is paid to the
Administrator, the Public Works Department shall install the necessary signs
and paint the curb.
   (D)   Parking.
      (1)   No person shall allow a semi-trailer to stand or to be parked
unattached from a tractor unit for any length of time on any street in the city
except in an emergency in order to change tractors.
      (2)   An over the road tractor vehicle that has no more than a weight of
five tons per axle may park on any city street if the trailer is not connected/
attached. Under no circumstances shall a tractor’s trailer be parked on any
city street.
(Prior Code, § 70.04)
   (E)   No truck parking zones. The Council may, by resolution, establish “No
Truck Parking” zones in the business district, and the Public Works Department
shall mark by appropriate signs any zones so established. Such zones shall be
established in the business district where heavy traffic by trucks and other
traffic congestion makes parking by trucks a hazard to the safety of vehicles
or pedestrians. No person shall park a truck of more than one-ton capacity
between 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any week day upon any street in any such
zone, but parking of the vehicle for a period of not more than 30 minutes shall
be permitted in such zone for the purpose of having access to abutting property
when such access cannot conveniently be secured otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 72.04)
(Ord. 208, passed 6-14-1999; Ord. 218, passed 9-10-2002) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 BUS STOPS AND TAXI STANDS.
   (A)   Designation. The Council may, by resolution, designate spaces on
streets in the city where vehicles engaged in carrying passengers for hire
shall stand or park. The Chief of Police shall mark by appropriate sign any bus
stop or taxi stand so established.
   (B)   Parking restrictions. Except for the purpose of loading or unloading
passengers, no driver of any vehicle, other than a bus, shall stand or park at
a bus stop, and no driver of any vehicle other than a taxi cab shall stand or
park in a taxi stand.
(Prior Code, § 72.05) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 WINTER PARKING.
   (A)   Application. The owner, driver, or person in charge of any motor
vehicle within the city limits shall conform to and observe the regulations set
forth in this section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled motor vehicle, or other vehicle on
wheels, which would ordinarily travel on public streets.
      PARKED or PARKING. Stopping or allowing any motor vehicle to stand upon
any public street.
      PUBLIC STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of any way or
place within the city limits when any part thereof is open to public use for
vehicular traffic and shall include public ways commonly referred to as alleys,
avenues, or boulevards.
   (C)   General parking prohibition. No motor vehicle shall be parked on any
public street after a snowfall of two inches until the street is plowed curb to
curb. Also, no motor vehicle shall be parked on any public street for more than
72 consecutive hours.
   (D)   Impounding of vehicles.
      (1)   A vehicle may be impounded without prior notice and at the owner’s
expense.
      (2)   A vehicle may be impounded without citation and without prior
notice to its owner only under the following circumstances:
         (a)   When a vehicle is impeding or is likely to impede the normal
flow of traffic or pedestrian traffic;
         (b)   When the vehicle is illegally parked in a truck, bus, or other
similar zone where parking is limited to designated classes of vehicles and
where such vehicle is interfering with the proper and intended use of such
zones or is parked where prohibited by law or by temporary or permanent signs
during certain hours, on designated days or at all times;
         (c)   When the vehicle poses an immediate danger to the public safety;
or
         (d)   When the vehicle is parked in violation of snow emergency
regulations.
   (E)   Recovery of impounded vehicles. Any motor vehicle towed and impounded
under this section may be claimed and recovered from the city after payment to
the city of all towing and storage charges. The city does not assume any
responsibility for any damage done during towing and/or impoundment under this
section.
   (F)   Prohibition on snow removal from private property. No person shall
remove snow from private property and deposit the same on any public street or
parking lot. Any snow so deposited may be removed by the city, and the cost of
the removal shall be assessed and charged to the person in violation of this
section.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) (Ord. 170, passed 2-14-1989; Ord. 192, passed 11-15-1994;
Ord. 194, passed 3-14-1995; Ord. 215, passed 2-12-2001) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.07 IMPOUNDMENT.
   Any police officer may remove a vehicle from a street to a garage or other
place of safety when the vehicle is left unattended and constitutes an
obstruction to traffic or hinders snow removal or street improvement or
maintenance operations. The vehicle shall not be released until the fees for
towing and storage are paid in addition to any fine imposed for violation of
this code.
(Prior Code, § 72.07)
§ 72.08 PRIMA FACIE VIOLATION.
   The presence of any motor vehicle on any street when standing or parked in
violation of this code is prima facie evidence that the registered owner of the
vehicle committed or authorized the commission of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 72.08)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, or corporation violating the provisions of §
72.06 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and punished according to law.
(Prior Code, § 72.06) (Ord. 170, passed 2-14-1989; Ord. 192, passed 11-15-1994;
Ord. 194, passed 3-14-1995; Ord. 215, passed 2-12-2001)
CHAPTER 73: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Purpose and intent
   
73.03   Hours and place of operation
   
73.04   Operation generally
   
73.05   Street and highway crossings
   
73.06   Certain state statutes adopted
   
73.07   Minimum equipment requirements
   
73.08   Operation by minors
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual control of a snowmobile.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having the property or title to
any snowmobile entitled to the use or possession thereof.
   PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, and any body of persons,
whether incorporated or not.
   SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
steered by skis or runners.
(Prior Code, § 73.01) (Ord. 214, passed 1-8-2001)
§ 73.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide reasonable regulations for the use
of snowmobiles on public and private property in the city.
(Prior Code, § 73.02) (Ord. 214, passed 1-8-2001)
§ 73.03 HOURS AND PLACE OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No person shall operate a snowmobile on any street, roadway, or public
thoroughfare within the city between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (B)   No snowmobile shall be operated within the city except for the purpose
of traveling from the location where the snowmobile is normally stored to the
city limits or from the city limits to where the snowmobile is normally stored.
The most direct route shall be used when leaving or entering the city.
(Prior Code, § 73.03) (Ord. 214, passed 1-8-2001) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 OPERATION GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within city
limits in the following ways:
   (A)   At a speed greater than 15 mph;
   (B)   On the portion of any public highway, street, road, alley, or trail
used for motor vehicle travel, except that a snowmobile may operate upon the
most right hand lane of a municipal street or alley;
   (C)   With any metal traction devices;
   (D)   On a sidewalk or boulevard, except that a direct crossing may be made
in the same manner as provided for the direct crossing of a city street;
   (E)   At any place or at any time while under the influence of intoxicating
liquor, narcotics, or habit forming drugs;
   (F)   At any place and at any time in a careless, reckless, or negligent
manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property or to
cause injury or damage thereto;
   (G)   On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, and recreational
areas without express permission to do so by proper public authority;
   (H)   So as to tow any person or thing on a public street or highway except
through the use of a rigid tow-bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile; and/
or
   (I)   In a manner that simulates a race or temporary race or negligent
manner so as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property.
(Prior Code, § 73.04) (Ord. 214, passed 1-8-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.05 STREET AND HIGHWAY CROSSINGS.
   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway, except an
interstate highway or freeway, provided:
   (A)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
   (B)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way;
   (C)   No snowmobile shall enter any intersection without yielding the right-
of-way to any vehicles or pedestrians at the intersection as to constitute an
immediate hazard; and
   (D)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one half hour after
sunset to one half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
the crossing may be made only if both front and rear lights are on.
(Prior Code, § 73.05) (Ord. 214, passed 1-8-2001)
§ 73.06 CERTAIN STATE STATUTES ADOPTED.
   M.S. §§ 84.81 through 84.91 inclusive, as amended, and regulations
promulgated thereunder are adopted by reference, incorporated herein, and made
part hereof.
(Prior Code, § 73.06) (Ord. 214, passed 1-8-2001)
§ 73.07 MINIMUM EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile not licensed for use
when operating within the city limits unless it is equipped with:
   (A)   A standard muffler which is properly attached and which reduces the
noise of operation of the motor to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cutout, bypass, straight pipes, or similar device on
any vehicle motor(s);
   (B)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
vehicle motor;
   (C)   A safety or so-called “deadman” throttle in operating conditions; and
   (D)   When operated between the hours of one half hour after sunset to one
half hour before sunrise or at times of reduced visibility, at least one clear
lamp attached to the front with sufficient intensity to reveal persons and
vehicles of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of darkness and under
normal atmospheric conditions. The head lamp shall be so aimed that glaring
rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming vehicle operator. It shall
be equipped with at least one red tail lamp having a minimum candlepower of
sufficient intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of
500 feet to the rear during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 73.07) (Ord. 214, passed 1-8-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.08 OPERATION BY MINORS.
   (A)   Persons under 12 years of age shall not operate on city streets or the
roadway surface of highways or make a direct crossing of a trunk, county state-
aid, county highway, or city street as the operator of a snowmobile unless
accompanied by parent(s) or guardian(s). A person 12 years of age or older but
less than 18 years of age may operate a snowmobile on streets and highways as
permitted under this chapter and make direct crossings of such streets and
highways only if they are in immediate possession of a valid snowmobile safety
certificate issued by the state’s Commissioner of Highways.
   (B)   It is unlawful for the owner of any snowmobile to permit the
snowmobile to be operated contrary to the provisions of this section.
   (C)   All city traffic ordinances shall apply to the operation of
snowmobiles upon streets and highways, except those relating to required
equipment and except those which by their nature have no application.
(Prior Code, § 73.08) (Ord. 214, passed 1-8-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of a violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punished by a fine determined by §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 73.98) (Ord. 214, passed 1-8-2001)
CHAPTER 74: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Purpose and intent
   
74.03   Required permit
   
74.04   Conditions
   
74.05   Revocation or denial of permit
   
74.06   Limitations of liability
   
74.07   Certain state statutes adopted
 
   
74.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   All-Terrain Vehicles, see
Ch. 76
   Off-Highway Vehicles, see
Ch. 75
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNATED ROADWAYS. A city street and avenue not specifically excluded in
this chapter. It does not mean state or county highways such as Main Street (MN
Hwy 4), Highway Avenue (US Hwy 212), and Ash Avenue West (CSAH 34).
   MOTORIZED GOLF CART. A vehicle commonly known as a golf cart, having at
least three wheels, and either an electric or a gas motor.
(Prior Code, § 74.01)
§ 74.02 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this section is to authorize the operation of motorized golf
carts on designated roadways in the city, pursuant to the authority given to
the city by M.S. § 169.045.
(Prior Code, § 74.02)
§ 74.03 REQUIRED PERMIT.
   (A)   No person may operate a motorized golf cart pursuant to this section
without a valid permit from the city.
   (B)   Permit applications shall be available at city offices and shall be in
a form approved by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Only persons at least 18 years of age will be issued a permit. Permit
holders may add additional drivers under their permit that are 16 years or
older and carry a valid driver’s license. It is unlawful for owner of any golf
cart to permit the golf cart to be operated contrary to the provisions of this
section.
   (D)   At the time of application, the applicant shall:
      (1)   Provide proof of insurance complying with the requirements of M.S.
§ 65B.48, Subd. 5, as the same may be amended from time to time; and
      (2)   Provide all other information as may be required by resolution of
the City Council.
   (E)   All permits granted pursuant to this section shall be issued for a
period not to exceed one year and may be renewed annually by complying with the
requirements of this section.
   (F)   The City Council shall set fees for such permits by resolution.
(Prior Code, § 74.03) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a motorized golf cart under this chapter:
      (1)   Except on designated routes;
      (2)   Except from sunrise to sunset;
      (3)   In inclement weather or when visibility is impaired by weather,
smoke, fog, or other conditions, or at any time when there is insufficient
light to clearly see persons in vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500
feet;
      (4)   Without displaying the slow-moving vehicle emblem provided for in
M.S. § 169.522;
      (5)   Unless the vehicle is equipped with a rear view mirror as provided
in M.S. § 169.70;
      (6)   With a passenger or passengers unless each such passenger is seated
on a seat specifically designed for the transport of passengers;
      (7)   Without having a copy of the permit in possession while using the
golf cart;
      (8)   At any place and at any time while under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, narcotics, or habit forming drugs;
      (9)   No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate, or otherwise operate
a motor vehicle within the city in a manner which causes unnecessary engine
noise or backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding, swaying, throwing of
sand or gravel, or in a manner simulating a race. Squealing or screeching
sounds emitted by tires or the throwing of sand or gravel by the tires is prima
facie evidence of a violation of this section;
      (10)   On public school grounds, park property, playgrounds, and
recreational areas without express permission to do so by proper authority; and
      (11)   So as to tow any person or thing on a public street or highway.
   (B)   The operator of a motorized golf cart under permit on designated
routes shall have all the rights and duties applicable to the driver of any
other vehicle under the provisions of M.S. Chapter 169 or other applicable
statute or ordinance, except when those provisions cannot reasonably be applied
to motorized golf carts and except as otherwise specifically provided in M.S. §
169.045, Subd. 7.
(Prior Code, § 74.04) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   A permit may be revoked by the Chief of Police at any time or denied if it
is shown that the permittee cannot safely or legally operate, or has not safely
or legally operated, the motorized golf cart within the city or if the
permittee’s driver’s license is no longer recognized as valid in the state. A
permitee may appeal any such revocation or denial to the City Council by filing
notice of appeal at the city office not later than 14 days after the date of
notice of the action to be appealed from.
(Prior Code, § 74.05)
§ 74.06 LIMITATIONS OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as an assumption of liability by
the city for any injuries to persons or property which may result from the
operation of a motorized golf cart by a permit holder, the grant of such
permit, or the failure by the city to revoke said permit.
(Prior Code, § 74.06)
§ 74.07 CERTAIN STATE STATUTES ADOPTED.
   (A)   M.S. § 169.045, in its entirety and as amended, is herein incorporated
as part of this code.
   (B)   Any violation of the statutes adopted by reference in division (A)
above is a violation of this code, and a violator guilty of the offense shall
be punishable by the penalty as is prescribed by the statutes.
(Prior Code, § 74.07)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor and is subject to having his or her permit under this section
revoked.
(Prior Code, § 74.08)
CHAPTER 75: OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLES
Section
   
75.01   Statutes adopted
   
75.02   Purpose
   
75.03   Definitions
   
75.04   Required permit
   
75.05   Conditions
   
75.06   Revocation or denial of permit
   
75.07   Limitation of liability
 
   
75.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   All-Terrain Vehicles, see
Ch. 76
§ 75.01 STATUTES ADOPTED.
   Any violation of the statutes adopted by reference in division (A) of this
section is a violation of this code, and a violator guilty of the offense shall
be punishable by the penalty as is prescribed by the statutes.
(Ord. 75, passed - -2013)
§ 75.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to authorize the operation of off-highway
vehicles on designated roadways in the city.
(Ord. 75, passed - -2013)
§ 75.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning. The term OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE (OHV) is used to
describe all-terrain vehicles.
   ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES (ATVS).
      (1)   CLASS 1 ATVS. Motorized flotation-tired vehicles with at least
three but no more than six low pressure tires that have an engine displacement
of less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and total dry weight of less than 1,000
pounds. (Dry weight is normally the weight of the vehicle without fluids.)
      (2)   CLASS 2 ATVS. Motorized flotation-tired vehicles with at least
three, but no more than six, low pressure tires that have an engine
displacement of less than 1,000 cubic centimeters and total dry weight of 1,000
to 1,800 pounds. (Dry weight is normally the weight of the vehicle without
fluids.)
   OPERATE. To ride in or on and have control of any vehicle.
   OPERATOR. The person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
motor vehicle.
   OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having a property interest in, or
title to, an all-terrain vehicle, who is entitled to the use or possession
thereof.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, corporation, or any body of persons,
whether incorporated or not.
   PUBLIC ROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY. 
      (1)   The entire right-of-way of a roadway that is not privately owned,
including the traveled portions, banks, ditches, shoulders, and medians. OHV
riding may be permitted on grant in aid trails that include portions of the
public road right-of-way when signed for that vehicle type.
      (2)   It is illegal to operate on the inside slope, shoulder, and roadway
of state and county roads. Class 2 ATVs may be operated on the shoulder or
extreme right side of county or township roads and city streets if not
prohibited by the road authority or other local laws. Class 2 ATVs may not be
operated on the shoulder of a state trunk highway.
(Ord. 75, passed - -2013)
§ 75.04 REQUIRED PERMIT.
   (A)   No person may operate an OHV pursuant to this section without a valid
permit from the city.
   (B)   Permit applications shall be available at city offices and shall be in
a form approved by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Only persons at least 18 years of age will be issued a permit. Permit
holders may add additional drivers under their permit that are 15 years or
older and have a valid driver’s license and/or ATV vehicle safety certificate.
It is unlawful for owner of any OHV to permit the OHV to be operated contrary
to the provisions of this section.
   (D)   At the time of application, the applicant shall:
      (1)   Provide proof of insurance complying with the requirements of M.S.
§ 65B.48, Subd. 5, as the same may be amended from time to time; or
      (2)   Provide all other information as may be required by resolution of
the City Council.
   (E)   All permits granted pursuant to this section shall be issued for a
period not to exceed one year and may be renewed annually by complying with the
requirements of this section.
   (F)   The City Council shall set fees for such permits by resolution.
(Ord. 75, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.05 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall operate an OHV under this chapter:
      (1)   Except on designated routes and from sunrise to sunset;
      (2)   In inclement weather or when visibility is impaired by weather,
smoke, fog, or other conditions, or at any time when there is insufficient
light to clearly see persons in vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500
feet;
      (3)   Without displaying current state registration provided for in state
statutes;
      (4)   Unless the vehicle is equipped with a rear view mirror as provided
in M.S. § 169.70;
      (5)   With a passenger or passengers unless each such passenger is seated
on a seat specifically designed for the transport of passengers; and
      (6)   Without having the permit in possession while using the OHV.
   (B)   The operator of an OHV under permit on designated routes shall have
all the rights and duties applicable to the driver of any other vehicle under
the provisions of M.S. Chapter 169 or other applicable statute or ordinance,
except when those provisions cannot reasonably be applied to OHVs
(Ord. 75, passed - -2013) Penalty, see §
75.99
§ 75.06 REVOCATION OR DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   A permit may be revoked by the Chief of Police at any time or denied if it
is shown that the permittee cannot safely or legally operate, or has not safely
or legally operated, the OHV within the city or if the permittee’s driver’s
license is no longer recognized as valid in the state. A permitee may appeal
any such revocation or denial to the City Council by filing notice of appeal at
the city office not later than 14 days after the date of notice of the action
to be appealed from.
(Ord. 75, passed - -2013)
§ 75.07 LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as an assumption of liability by
the city for any injuries to persons or property which may result from the
operation of an OHV by permit holder, the grant of such permit, or the failure
by the city to revoke said permit.
(Ord. 75, passed - -2013)
§ 75.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor and is subject to having his or her permit under this section
revoked.
(Ord. 75, passed - -2013)
CHAPTER 76: ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES
Section
   
76.01   Purpose and procedures
   
76.02   Application of provisions
   
76.03   Appeals and recourse
   
76.04   Payment of fines
   
76.05   Restricted usage
   
76.06   Records
   
76.07   Fine schedule
 
   
76.99   Penalty
§ 76.01 PURPOSE AND PROCEDURES.
   Administrative penalty procedures established pursuant to this section are
intended to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective,
and expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain city code provisions.
   (A)   The procedures are intended to be voluntary on the part of those who
have been charged with administrative penalties. At any time prior to the
payment of the administrative penalty, as is provided for hereafter, the
individual may withdraw from participation in the procedures, in which event
the city may bring criminal charges in accordance with law. Likewise, the city
at its discretion may choose not to initiate an administrative penalty and may
bring criminal charges in the first instance.
   (B)   In the event a party participates in the administrative penalty
procedures, but does not pay the monetary penalty, which may be imposed, the
city will seek to collect the costs of the administrative penalty procedure as
part of a subsequent criminal sentence in the event the party is charged and is
adjudicated guilty of the criminal violation.
(Ord. 230, passed 10-9-2006)
§ 76.02 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Application of penalty. The penalty provided in this chapter shall be
applicable to every section of the city code, as though it where a part of each
and every separate chapter and section.
   (B)   Amendments, codes adopted by reference. The penalties provided by this
chapter or any section of this code apply to the amendment of any section of
this code or any code adopted herein by reference to which the penalty relates,
whether of not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory provision, unless
otherwise provided in the amendment.
   (C)   Penalty section included. Reference to any sections of this code shall
be understood also to refer to and include penalty section relating thereto,
unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (D)   One judgment only. In all cases where the same offense is made
punishable or is created by different causes or sections of this code, the
prosecuting officer may elect under which to proceed, but not more than one
recovery shall be had against the same person for the same offense; provided,
that the revocation of a license or permit shall not constitute a recovery of
penalty so as to bar any other penalty from being enforced.
   (E)   Breach of provisions. Whenever the doing of any act or omission to do
any act constitutes a breach of any section or provision of this code and there
shall be no fine or penalty declared for such breach, the provisions of this
chapter shall apply.
(Ord. 230, passed 10-9-2006)
§ 76.03 APPEALS AND RECOURSE.
   (A)   License revocation. When a person is convicted of a violation of any
section of this code, any license previously issued to such person by the city
may be revoked by the court or by City Council following an administrative
hearing and opportunity to be heard.
   (B)   Administrative hearing. Availability to appeal or contest an
administrative fine is made through a hearing of the offense in front of the
next available City Council meeting. Determination of conviction shall be made
on the merits of the case and shall not be made on ability to make payment on
fine.
   (C)   No bias in hearings. Conviction issued by the City Council during an
administrative hearing shall not be biased by race, sex, age, economic
conditions, personal favor or prejudices, or religious beliefs.
(Ord. 230, passed 10-9-2006)
§ 76.04 PAYMENT OF FINES.
   In the event that an administrative tag goes unpaid over 30 days, then a
uniform traffic citation may be issued for violation of the appropriate state
law or city ordinance and sent certified mail to the offender.
(Ord. 230, passed 10-9-2006)
§ 76.05 RESTRICTED USAGE.
   Utilization of administrative tags shall not be used in place of criminal or
state traffic citations in the following:
   (A)   DUI’s misdemeanor to felony (motor vehicle, ATV, OHM, or snowmobile);
   (B)   Assaults;
   (C)   Disorderly conduct;
   (D)   Minor consumption/possession;
   (E)   Minor possession of tobacco;
   (F)   Sales of alcohol to minors;
   (G)   Harassment or restraining order violations;
   (H)   Trespassing charges;
   (I)   Any criminal or traffic offense mandating an arrest;
   (J)   Any auto accidents or criminal accidents;
   (K)   Any offense involving an injured person; and
   (L)   Any offense where a use of force is involved by the police or public.
(Ord. 230, passed 10-9-2006)
§ 76.06 RECORDS.
   (A)   Citations record keeping:
      (1)   Hard copy is given to the offender;
      (2)   One copy is kept on file at the police offices; and
      (3)   One copy along with report kept on file at the city offices.
   (B)   All citations and records related to such shall be kept on file with
the city for no less than seven years from issuance of citation.
(Ord. 230, passed 10-9-2006)
§ 76.07 FINE SCHEDULE.
Fine Schedule
Fine Schedule
TRAFFIC RELATED
$40         70.01 All Chapter 169 Traffic Violations as adopted.
$40         70.04 Truck restrictions - no semi trailers parking
$40         71.01 Restricted turning - no crossing centerline to park or back.
$40         71.02 School zone speed excess of 20 mph.
$75         71.03 Exhibition driving
PARKING RELATED
$15         72.01 Angle and parallel parking
$40         72.02 No parking, stopping, or standing zones
$20         72.03 Time limit parking zones
$40         72.04 Truck zones, loading zones, and the like
$40         72.05 Bus stops and taxi stands
$20         72.06 Winter parking - automobiles
$50         72.06 Winter parking - immobile vehicles and semi’s
$10 per day 72.07 Impoundment
SNOWMOBILE OPERATIONS
$40         73.03 Hours and place of operation
$40         73.04 Operation generally
$40         73.05 Street and highway crossings
$40         73.06 Certain state statutes adopted
$40         73.07 Minimum equipment requirements
$40         73.08 Operation by minors
PUBLIC NUISANCES
$40         92.01 Public nuisance defined
$40         92.02 Public nuisances affecting health
$40         92.03 Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
$40         92.04 Burning of leaves on private property
$40         92.05 Open burning of leaves
$40         92.06 Open burning permitted
ANIMAL RELATED
$40         93.02 License requirements
$40         93.03 Control of animal (including habitual barking)
$40         93.20 General prohibition
$100        93.21 Vicious animals - (Along with order to remove animal from
            city or have animal destroyed)
$40         93.22 Areas where keeping prohibited
$40         93.23 Maltreatment
$40         93.24 Animals at large
$40         93.25 diseased animals
$40         93.26 Manner of keeping
$40         93.26 Care of premises
GENERAL OFFENSES
$40         130.01 Use of weapons - BB guns, paint ball (non firearms)
$40         130.02 Use of city swimming pool restricted
$40         130.03 Use of public parks regulated
$40         130.05 Curfew
 
   In accordance with the collection of fines, the city may adjust fees to
cover inflation and other factors not expressed in this chapter without the
requirement of repeated ordinances. Future establishment of fees may be done by
city resolution.
(Ord. 230, passed 10-9-2006)
§ 76.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Misdemeanor. Unless another penalty is expressly provided in this
code, and except for the provisions of division (B) below, any person violating
any provisions of this code or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in
pursuance thereof or any provision of any code adopted herein by reference
shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine or by imprisonment, or both
established under M.S. § 609.02, Subd. 3, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Petty misdemeanor. Any person convicted of a petty misdemeanor shall
be subject to a fine of not more than the maximum set by M.S. § 609.02, Subd.
4a, as amended from time to time.
   (C)   Administrative offenses. Any person violating an administrative rule,
or any offense that would otherwise be a misdemeanor or petty misdemeanor for
which the city has established a scheduled penalty, shall be subject to the
scheduled penalty not to exceed $100 for each offense. The determination as to
whether to treat an offense as an administrative offense, petty misdemeanor
shall be left to the discretion of the complainant and/or peace officer.
   (D)   Separate violations. Unless otherwise provided, each act of violation
and every day upon which a violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate
offense.
   (E)   Failure of officers to perform duties. The failure of any officer or
employee of the city to perform any official duties imposed by city code shall
not be subject to penalties provided for under this code, unless penalty is
specifically provided for such conduct or omission.
(Ord. 230, passed 10-9-2006)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
91.   TREES
      
92.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
93.   ANIMALS AND LICENSING
      
94.   LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
CHAPTER 90: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Right-Of-Way Construction Regulations
   
90.01   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
90.02   Definitions and adoption of rules by reference
   
90.03   Permit requirement
   
90.04   Permit applications
   
90.05   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
90.06   Permit fees
   
90.07   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
90.08   Supplementary applications
   
90.09   Denial of permit
   
90.10   Installation requirements
   
90.11   Inspection
   
90.12   Work done without a permit
   
90.13   Supplementary notification
   
90.14   Revocation of permits
   
90.15   Mapping data; information required
   
90.16   Location of facilities
   
90.17   Damage to other facilities
   
90.18   Right-of-way vacation
   
90.19   Indemnification and liability
   
90.20   Abandoned facilities; removal of abandoned facilities
   
90.21   Appeal
   
90.22   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
Assessable Current Services: Obligation of Property Owners and Occupants
   
90.35   Definition
   
90.36   Snow, ice, dirt, and rubbish
   
90.37   Weed elimination
   
90.38   Public health and safety standards
   
90.39   Installation and repair of water service lines
   
90.40   Repair of sidewalks and alleys
   
90.41   Street sprinkling, street flushing, tree care, and the like
   
90.42   Street lighting system
   
90.43   Personal liability
   
90.44   Assessment
   
90.45   Materials on street or sidewalk
RIGHT-OF-WAY CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 90.01 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative, and common law, the city hereby elects pursuant to
this chapter to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 90.01)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS AND ADOPTION OF RULES BY REFERENCE.
   Minn. Rules Chapter 7819, as it may be amended from time to time, is hereby
adopted by reference and is incorporated into this code as if set out in full.
The definitions included in Minn. Rules part 7819.0100 subpts. 1 through 23, as
it may be amended from time to time, are the definitions of the terms used in
the following provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.02)
§ 90.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no person
may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained the
appropriate permit from the city.
      (1)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of-way described in the permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
therein.
      (2)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
   (B)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-way
beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless the person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, and a new permit or permit extension is granted.
   (C)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules part 7819.1000 subpt. 3,
as it may be amended from time to time, and notwithstanding division (B) of
this section, the city shall establish and impose a delay penalty for
unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction, patching, or
restoration. The delay penalty shall be established from time to time by
Council resolution as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Permit display. Permits issued under this subchapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 90.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.04 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a permit shall contain, and will be considered complete only
upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project and the location of all known existing and proposed
facilities, and the following information:
      (1)   Each permittee’s name, gopher one-call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall be available at all times. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration;
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the Director;
         (b)   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant, its
officers, agents, employees, and permittees, and placement and use of
facilities and equipment in the right-of-way by the registrant, its officers,
agents, employees, and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection
against liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground
facilities, and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the Director be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation, and umbrella coverage established by
the Director in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to
carry out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
      (5)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate required
to be filed under M.S. § 300.06, as it may be amended from time to time, as
recorded and certified to by the Secretary of State; and
      (6)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the state’s Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have the certificate
from the Commission or other state or federal agency.
   (B)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees as established by Council resolution, as may be amended
from time to time, estimated restoration costs, and other management costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of the applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-
way or any emergency actions taken by the city; or
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges as established by Council
resolution as may be amended from time to time, if applicable.
(Prior Code, § 90.04)
§ 90.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the Director shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The Director may impose reasonable conditions upon the
issuance of the permit and the performance of the applicant thereunder to
protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-
of-way and its current use.
(Prior Code, § 90.05)
§ 90.06 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees shall be in an amount established by Council resolution as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee as established by Council resolution, as may be amended from time to time,
in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee as established by Council resolution, as may be amended from time to
time, and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management
costs.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay those fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Non-refundable. Permit fees as established by Council resolution, as
may be amended from time to time, that were paid for a permit that the Director
has revoked for a breach as stated in §
90.14 are not refundable.
   (E)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (F)   Establishment. All permit fees shall be established consistent with
the provisions of Minn. Rules part 7819.1000, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 90.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.07 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonal or unreasonable under this
subchapter.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. The permittee shall patch its own work. The
city may choose either to have the city restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, the
permittee shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If following
the restoration, the pavement settles due to the permittee’s improper
backfilling, the permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing,
all costs associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
part 7819.3000, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minn. Rules part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Director shall have the authority to prescribe the manner and extent
of the restoration, and may do so in written procedures of general application
or on a case-by-case basis.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by the permittee or its agents. The
permittee, upon notification from the Director, shall correct all restoration
work to the extent necessary, using the method required by the Director. The
work shall be completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice
from the Director, not including days during which work cannot be done because
of circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonal or unreasonable under this subchapter.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the Director, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the Director,
the Director at its option may do the work. In that event the permittee shall
pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-
way. If the permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its
rights under the construction performance bond.
   (F)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee as
established by Council resolution as may be amended from time to time. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
(Prior Code, § 90.07)
§ 90.08 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must before working in that greater area
make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Prior Code, § 90.08)
§ 90.09 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
(Prior Code, § 90.09)
§ 90.10 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of- way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
part 7819.1100, as it may be amended from time to time and other applicable
local requirements, in so far as they are not inconsistent with M.S. §§ 237.162
and 237.163, as they may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 90.10)
§ 90.11 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules part 7819.1300, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Site inspection. The permittee shall make the work-site available to
city personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of Director.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The Director may issue an order to the permittee for any work which
does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If proof has not been presented within the
required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
90.14.
(Prior Code, § 90.11)
§ 90.12 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. 
      (1)   Each person with facilities in the right-of-way shall immediately
notify the city of any event regarding its facilities which it considers to be
an emergency. The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency, the owner shall apply for the necessary permits,
pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements
necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for the actions it
took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
city will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by this code,
deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-
way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 90.12)
§ 90.13 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, the permittee shall notify the
Director of the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Prior Code, § 90.13)
§ 90.14 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
the permittee shall include, but shall not be limited, to the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee’s control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
90.11.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation, or any condition of the permit, the city shall
make a written demand upon the permittee to remedy that violation. The demand
shall state that continued violations may be cause for revocation of the
permit. A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its
discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate
and remedy the breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, the permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, that will cure the breach. The permittee’s failure to
so contact the city, or the permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan,
or the permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
(Prior Code, § 90.14)
§ 90.15 MAPPING DATA; INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   Each permittee shall provide mapping information required by the city in
accordance with Minn. Rules parts 7819.4000 and 7819.4100, as it may be amended
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 90.15)
§ 90.16 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Compliance required. Placement, location, and relocation of facilities
must comply with applicable laws, and with Minn. Rules parts 7819.3100,
7819.5000, and 7819.5100, as they may be amended from time to time, to the
extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. The city may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facilities that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will
someday be located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
   (C)   Limitation of space. To protect the health, safety, and welfare or
when necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the Director
shall have the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional
facilities within the right-of-way. In making those decisions, the Director
shall strive to the extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential
users of the right-of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of
the public interest, the public’s needs for the particular utility service, the
condition of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential
utilities, the protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and
future city plans for public improvements and development projects which have
been determined to be in the public interest.
(Prior Code, § 90.16)
§ 90.17 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move facilities to protect it, the Director shall notify
the local representative as early as is reasonably possible and placed as
required. The costs associated therewith will be billed to that registrant and
must be paid within 30 days from the date of billing. Each facility owner shall
be responsible for the cost of repairing any facilities in the right-of-way
which it or its facilities damages. Each facility owner shall be responsible
for the cost of repairing any damage to the facilities of another registrant
caused during the city’s response to an emergency occasioned by that owner’s
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 90.17)
§ 90.18 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way which contains the facilities of a
registrant, the registrant’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by
Minn. Rules part 7819.3200, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 90.18)
§ 90.19 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minn. Rules 7819.1250, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 90.19)
§ 90.20 ABANDONED FACILITIES; REMOVAL OF ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way shall remove
them from that right-of- way if required in conjunction with other right-of-way
repair, excavation, or construction, unless this requirement is waived by the
Director.
(Prior Code, § 90.20)
§ 90.21 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that has been denied registration, has been denied a
permit, has had permit revoked, or believes that the fees imposed are invalid,
may have the denial, revocation, or fee imposition reviewed, upon written
request, by the City Council. The City Council shall act on a timely written
request at its next regularly scheduled meeting. A decision by the City Council
affirming the denial, revocation, or fee as imposition will be in writing and
supported by written findings establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
(Prior Code, § 90.21)
§ 90.22 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee’s or registrant’s rights are subject to the regulatory and
police powers of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Prior Code, § 90.22)
ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES: OBLIGATION OF PROPERTY OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS
§ 90.35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice, or rubbish removal
from sidewalks; weed elimination from street grass plots adjacent to sidewalks
or from private property; removal or elimination of public health or safety
hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous building included in
M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26, as amended; installation or repair of water
service lines; street sprinkling, street flushing, light street oiling, or
other dust treatment of streets; repair of sidewalks and alleys; trimming and
care of trees and removal of unsound and insect-infected trees from the public
streets or private property; and the operation of a street lighting system.
(Prior Code, § 90.40)
§ 90.36 SNOW, ICE, DIRT, AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep such walk
safe for pedestrians. No such owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt, or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 12 hours after its deposit thereon.
   (B)   Removal by city. The Public Works Director shall remove from all
public sidewalks all snow, dirt, and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 12
hours after such matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased
to fall.
      (1)   The Public Works Director shall keep a record showing the cost of
such removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel and shall deliver such
information to the Administrator.
      (2)   The cost of removal of snow, ice, dirt, and rubbish removed by the
Public Works Department shall be charged against the owner of the property and,
if not paid, the charge for such work will be made a special assessment against
the property concerned.
(Prior Code, § 90.41)
§ 90.37 WEED ELIMINATION.
   (A)   Weeds as a nuisance. Any weeds, whether noxious as defined by law or
not, growing upon any lot or parcel of land outside the traveled portion of any
street or alley in the city to a greater height than six inches or which have
gone or about to go to seed are a nuisance. The owner and the occupant shall
abate or prevent such nuisance on such property and on land outside the
traveled portion of the street or alley abutting on such property.
   (B)   Notice. On or before June 1 of each year and at such other times as
ordered by resolution of the Council, the Administrator shall publish once in
the official newspaper a notice directing owners and occupants of property
within the city to destroy all weeds declared by division (A) of this section
to be a nuisance and stating that if not so destroyed within ten days after
publication of the notice, the weeds will be destroyed by the Public Works
Department at the expense of the owner and that if not paid, the charge for the
work will be made a special assessment against the property concerned.
   (C)   Removal by city. If the owner or occupant of any property in the city
fails to comply with the notice within ten days after its publication, the
Public Works Department shall cut and remove such weeds. The Public Works
Department shall keep a record showing the cost of such work attributable to
each separate lot and parcel and shall deliver such information to the
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 90.42)
§ 90.38 PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS.
   (A)   When the city removes or eliminates public health or safety hazards
from private property under city code, the administrative officer responsible
for doing the work shall keep a record of the cost of such removal or
elimination against each parcel of property affected and annually deliver such
information to the Administrator.
   (B)   This section does not apply to hazardous buildings under the hazardous
buildings law, M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 90.43)
§ 90.39 INSTALLATION AND REPAIR OF WATER SERVICE LINES.
   Whenever the city installs or repairs water service lines serving private
property under Title V of this code, the Public Works Department shall keep the
a record of the total cost of the installation or repair against the property
and deliver such information to the Administrator annually by August 15 as to
each parcel of property on which the cost has not been paid.
(Prior Code, § 90.44)
§ 90.40 REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk or alley in repair and safe
for pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the Council and on file in the office of the
Administrator.
   (B)   Inspections; notice. The Public Works Director shall make such
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If it
is found that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe and
in need of repairs, the Public Works Director shall cause a notice to be
served, by registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record
owner of the property and the occupant, if the owner does not reside within the
city or cannot be found therein, ordering such owner to have the sidewalk or
alley repaired and made safe within 20 days and stating that if the owner fails
to do so, the Public Works Director will do so on behalf of the city, that the
expense thereof must be paid by the owner, and that if unpaid it will be made a
special assessment against the property concerned.
   (C)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within 20
days after receipt of the notice, the Public Works Director shall report the
facts to the Council, and the Council shall, by resolution, order the Public
Works Director to repair the sidewalk or alley and make it safe or order the
work done by contract in accordance with law. The Public Works Director shall
keep a record of the total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or
parcel of property and report such information to the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 90.45)
§ 90.41 STREET SPRINKLING, STREET FLUSHING, TREE CARE, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Proposed projects. The Council shall each year determine by resolution
what streets and alleys shall be sprinkled or flushed, oiled, or given other
dust treatment during the year and the kind of work to be done on each. The
Council shall also determine by resolution from time to time the streets on
which trees shall be trimmed and cared for, the kind of work to be done, and
what unsound trees shall be removed. Before any work is done pursuant to either
of these resolutions, the Administrator shall, under the Council’s direction,
publish notice that the Council will meet to consider such projects. The notice
shall be published in the official newspaper at least once no less than two
weeks prior to such meeting of the Council and shall state the date, time, and
place of such meeting, the streets affected and the particular projects
proposed and the estimated cost of each project, either in total or on the
basis of the proposed assessment per front foot or otherwise.
   (B)   Hearing; order.
      (1)   At such hearing or at any adjournment thereof, the Council shall
hear property owners with reference to the scope and desirability of the
proposed projects. The Council shall thereupon adopt a resolution confirming
the original projects with such modifications as it considers desirable and
shall provide for the doing of the work by day labor through the Public Works
Director or by contract.
      (2)   The Public Works Director shall keep a record of the cost and the
portion of the cost properly attributable to each lot and parcel of property
abutting on the street or alley on which the work is done and shall report such
information to the Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 90.46)
§ 90.42 STREET LIGHTING SYSTEM.
   The Administrator shall keep a record of the cost of operation of the street
lighting system for the 12 months preceding September 1 of each year and the
portion of the cost properly attributable during that period to each lot and
parcel of property abutting the street or alley in which the system is located.
All such costs shall be collected in the manner provided by this code.
(Prior Code, § 90.47)
§ 90.43 PERSONAL LIABILITY.
   The owner of property on which or adjacent to which a current service has
been performed shall be personally liable for the cost of such service. As soon
as the service has been completed and the cost determined, the Administrator,
or other designated official, shall prepare a bill and mail it to the owner and
thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 90.48)
§ 90.44 ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   On or before September 1 of each year, the Administrator shall list
the total unpaid charges for each type of current service against each separate
lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this code.
   (B)   The Council may then spread the charges against property benefitted as
a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as amended, and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection along with
current taxes the following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten,
as the Council may determine in each case.
(Prior Code, § 90.49)
§ 90.45 MATERIALS ON STREET OR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   No person shall encumber any street, sidewalk, or right-of-way. No
owner, occupant, or person having the care of any building or lot of land,
bordering on any street, sidewalk, or right-of-way shall permit it to be
encumbered with barrels, boxes, cans, articles, or substances of any kind, so
as to interfere with the free and unobstructed use thereof.
   (B)   Except for the actions of the city employees and contractors carrying
out their duties, no person shall:
      (1)   Obstruct any street or sidewalk by depositing snow or ice thereon;
      (2)   Dig any holes in any street, sidewalk, or right-of-way;
      (3)   Remove any earth, gravel, or rock from any street, sidewalk, or
right-of-way;
      (4)   Obstruct any ditch draining any street or drain any noisome
materials into any ditch;
      (5)   Deface, mar, damage, or tamper with any structure, work, material,
equipment, tools, signs, markers, signals, paving, guardrails, drains, or any
other highway appurtenance on or along any street, sidewalk, or right-of-way.
      (6)   Remove, injure, displace, or destroy right-of-way markers, or
reference or witness monuments, or markers placed to preserve section or
quarter-section corners; or
      (7)   Drive over, through, or around any barricade, fence, or obstruction
erected for the purpose of preventing traffic from passing over a portion of a
street or sidewalk closed to public travel or to remove, deface, or damage any
such barricade, fence, or obstruction.
Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 91: TREES
Section
   
91.01   Declaration of policy
   
91.02   Epidemic disease program
   
91.03   Inspection and investigation
   
91.04   Abatement of Dutch elm disease nuisance
   
91.05   Procedure for removal of infected trees and wood
   
91.06   Spraying elm trees
   
91.07   Transporting elm wood prohibited
   
91.08   Interference prohibited
§ 91.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The Council determines that the health of the elm and oak trees within the
city limits is threatened by fatal diseases known as Dutch elm and oak wilt
diseases, and other trees may be threatened by other epidemic diseases of shade
trees. It further determines that the loss of elm, oak, and other trees growing
upon public and private property would substantially depreciate the value of
property within the city and impair the safety, good order, general welfare,
and convenience of the public. It is declared to be the intention of the
Council to control and prevent the spread of those diseases, and this code is
enacted for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 91.01)
§ 91.02 EPIDEMIC DISEASE PROGRAM.
   It is the intention of the Council to conduct a program of plant pest
control pursuant to all the powers of this city, including the authority
granted by M.S. § 18G.13, as amended.
   (A)   Trees constituting nuisances. The following are public nuisances
whenever they may be found within the city:
      (1)   Any living or standing elm tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the Dutch elm disease fungus Ceratocystis Ulmi (Buisman) Moreau or
which harbors any of the elm bark beetles Scolytus Multistriatus (Eichh.) or
Hylungopinus Rufipes (Marsh);
      (2)   Any dead elm tree or part thereof, including legs, branches,
stumps, firewood, or other elm material from which the bark has not been
removed and burned or sprayed with an effective elm bark beetle insecticide;
      (3)   Any living or standing oak tree or part thereof infected to any
degree with the oak wilt fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum;
      (4)   Any dead oak tree or part thereof which in the opinion of the city
shade tree inspector constitutes a hazard, including, but not limited to, logs,
branches, stumps, roots, firewood, or other oak material which has not been
stripped of its bark and burned or sprayed with an effective fungicide; and
      (5)   Any other shade tree with an epidemic disease.
   (B)   Abatement. It is unlawful for any person to permit any public nuisance
as defined in division (A) of this section to remain on any premises owned or
controlled by that person within the city. The nuisances may be abated in the
manner prescribed by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 91.02) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.03 INSPECTION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Annual inspection. As often as practicable, the city shade tree
inspector shall inspect all public and private premises within the city which
might harbor any plant pest as defined in M.S. § 18G.02, Subd. 24, as amended,
to determine whether any condition described in this chapter exists thereon.
The city shade tree inspector shall investigate all reported incidents of
infestation by Dutch elm fungus, elm bark beetles, oak wilt fungus, or any
other epidemic disease of shade trees.
   (B)   Entry on private premises. The city shade tree inspector or duly
authorized agents may enter upon private premises at any reasonable time for
the purpose of carrying out any of the duties assigned under this code.
   (C)   Diagnosis. The city shade tree inspector shall, upon finding
conditions indicating Dutch elm, oak wilt, or other infestation, immediately
send appropriate specimens or samples to the Commissioner of Agriculture for
analysis or take such other steps for diagnosis as may be recommended by the
Commission. Except as provided in §
91.06, no action to remove infected trees or wood shall be taken until positive
diagnosis of the disease has been made.
(Prior Code, § 91.03)
§ 91.04 ABATEMENT OF DUTCH ELM DISEASE NUISANCE.
   In abating a nuisance defined in §
91.03, the city shade tree inspector shall cause the infected tree or wood to
be sprayed, removed, burned, or otherwise effectively treated so as to destroy
and prevent as fully as possible the spread of epidemic diseases, including
Dutch elm disease and oak wilt disease. The city shade tree inspector shall
also take such steps as are necessary to prevent root graft transmission of the
diseases. The abatement procedures shall be carried out in accordance with
current technical and expert opinions and plans as may be designated by the
Commission of Agriculture.
(Prior Code, § 91.04)
§ 91.05 PROCEDURE FOR REMOVAL OF INFECTED TREES AND WOOD.
   (A)   Action by city shade tree inspector. Whenever the city shade tree
inspector finds with reasonable certainty that the infestation defined in §
91.03 exists in any tree or wood in any public or private place in the city,
the city shade tree inspector shall proceed as follows.
      (1)   If the city shade tree inspector finds that the danger of
infestation of other elm, oak, or other trees is not imminent because of the
dormancy of the infected trees, the city shade tree inspector shall make a
written report of the finding to the Council which shall proceed by:
         (a)   Abating the nuisance as a public improvement under M.S. Chapter
429, as it may be amended from time to time; or
         (b)   Abating the nuisance as provided in division (B) of this
section.
      (2)   If the city shade tree inspector finds that danger of infestation
of other elm, oak, or other trees is imminent, the city shade tree inspector
shall notify the abutting property owner by certified mail that the nuisance
will be abated within a specified time, not less than five days from the date
of mailing of the notice. The city shade tree inspector shall immediately
report such action to the Council and, after the expiration of the time limit
in the notice, may abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Action by Council. Upon receipt of the city shade tree inspector’s
report required by division (A)(2) above, the Council shall, by resolution,
order the nuisance abated. Before action is taken on such resolution, the
Council shall publish notice of its intention to meet to consider taking action
to abate the nuisance. This notice shall be mailed to affected property owners
and published once no less than one week prior to such meeting. The notice
shall state the time and place of the meeting, the streets affected, the action
proposed, the estimated cost of the abatement and the proposed basis of
assessment, if any, of costs. At such hearing or adjournment thereof, the
Council shall hear property owners with reference to the scope and desirability
of the proposed project. The Council shall thereafter adopt a resolution with
such modifications as it considers desirable and provide for the doing of the
work by day labor or by contract.
   (C)   Record. The Public Works Director or city shade tree inspector shall
keep a record of the costs of abatement done under this section and shall
report monthly to the Administrator all work done for which assessments are to
be made, stating and certifying the description of the land, lots, parcels
involved, and the amount chargeable to each.
   (D)   Assessment. On or before September 1 of each year, the Administrator
shall list the total unpaid charges for each abatement against each separate
lot or parcel to which they are attributable under this code. The Council may
then spread the charges or any portion thereof against the property involved as
a special assessment under M.S. § 429.101, as amended, and other pertinent
statutes for certification to the County Auditor and collection the following
year along with current taxes.
(Prior Code, § 91.05)
§ 91.06 SPRAYING ELM TREES.
   (A)   When to spray. Whenever the Public Works Director or city shade tree
inspector determines that any elm tree or elm wood within the city is infected
with Dutch elm fungus, the Public Works Department may spray or treat all
nearby high value elm trees with an effective elm bark beetle destroying
concentrate or fungicide or both. Activities authorized by this section shall
be conducted in accordance with technical and expert opinions and plans of the
Commission of Agriculture and under the supervision of the Commissioner and
agents of the Commissioner, whenever possible.
   (B)   Notice. The notice provisions of this section apply to spraying and
treatment operations conducted under this section.
(Prior Code, § 91.06)
§ 91.07 TRANSPORTING ELM WOOD PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to transport, within the city, any bark-
bearing elm or oak wood without having obtained a permit from the city shade
tree inspector at the Administrator’s office. The city shade tree inspector
shall grant such permits only when the purpose of this code will be served
thereby.
(Prior Code, § 91.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 91.08 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay, or interfere with the city
shade tree inspector, or agents of the city shade tree inspector, while they
are engaged in the performance of duties imposed by this chapter and is
punishable as a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 91.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 92: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Public nuisance defined
   
92.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
92.03   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
92.04   Burning of leaves on private property
   
92.05   Open burning of leaves
   
92.06   Open burning permitted
   
92.07   Blight
   
92.08   Noise
Grass/Weeds
   
92.20   Short title
   
92.21   Jurisdiction
   
92.22   Definitions; exclusions
   
92.23   Owners responsible for trimming, removal, and the like
   
92.24   Filing complaint
   
92.25   Notice of violations
   
92.26   Appeals
   
92.27   Abatement by city
   
92.28   Liability
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 PUBLIC NUISANCE DEFINED.
   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally
does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is
a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures,
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort, or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage any
public highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or any other
part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no sentence is
specifically provided.
(Prior Code, § 92.01) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse, or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal, or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste, or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas or soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
(Prior Code, § 92.02) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 12 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   All unnecessary noises and annoying vibrations;
   (E)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use by the public
of streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (F)   Radio aerials or television antennas erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (G)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (H)   All hanging signs, awnings, and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, or so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not
constructed and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (I)   The allowing of rain water, ice, or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (J)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (K)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (L)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (M)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies, or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or to fire, health, or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (N)   Any well, hole, or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (O)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (P)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk, or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (Q)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (R)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone; and
   (S)   The depositing of yard clippings or yard waste on a public right-of-
way.
(Prior Code, § 92.03) (Ord. 210, passed 7-12-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 BURNING OF LEAVES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The burning of leaves on private property is permitted under the
following conditions:
      (1)   The burning of leaves will only be permitted from October 15
through November 15;
      (2)   A reasonable person shall be in constant attendance until the fire
is completely extinguished;
      (3)   Burning will only be allowed between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 8:
00 p.m. All fires are to be extinguished by 8:00 p.m.;
      (4)   Fires shall not be less than 25 feet from any structure, wood
fence, hedge, or bush and no less than five feet from any property line;
      (5)   The burning of leaves is prohibited on city streets, boulevards,
lake shores, or any public property by private citizens;
      (6)   No open burning of leaves shall take place during an air pollution
alert warning or emergency declared by the state’s Environmental Protection
Agency; and
      (7)   The City Manager may temporarily discontinue burning between
October 15 and November 15 due to unsafe conditions (such as excessive dryness
and the like). At the City Manager’s discretion, the last day of burning may be
extended through December 1.
   (B)   This section pertains only to the burning of leaves. Any burning of
rubbish, trash, or other material is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 92.04) (Ord. 74, passed 7-26-1982)
§ 92.05 OPEN BURNING OF LEAVES.
   (A)   Burning of leaves permitted. The burning of dried leaves is permitted
within the corporate limits of the city only in accordance with conditions set
forth in this section.
   (B)   Time. The burning of dried leaves shall be permitted to occur from
dawn to 8:00 p.m. on Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday beginning with the
second Tuesday of October and ending with the last Saturday in November of each
year subject to cancellation as provided in M.S. § 512.06, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (C)   Declaration of air pollution or fire danger alert.
      (1)   Air pollution alert. No burning of leaves shall take place during
an air pollution alert, warning, or emergency declared by the state’s Pollution
Control Agency.
      (2)   Fire danger alert. No burning of leaves shall take place during a
fire danger alert declared by the Fire Chief for the city or by the
Commissioner of the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Public notice. Notice of any fire danger alert or of any air
pollution alert, warning, or emergency shall be broadcast periodically on any
day during which open burning of leaves would otherwise be permitted.
   (D)   General precautions against fire.
      (1)   Kindling of fire on land of other restricted. No person shall
ignite or burn any dried leaves upon the land of another without the permission
of the owner thereof or his or her agent.
      (2)   Burning on public property. No person shall ignite or burn any
dried leaves on any publicly owned or controlled lot or parcel of land, public
bridge, street, sidewalk, or public place which has not been set aside by
public authorities for such purpose.
      (3)   Location restricted. No person shall ignite or maintain any fire
permitted by this section or authorize any such fire to be ignited or
maintained on any private land unless:
         (a)   The fire is contained in an approved waste burner located safely
not less than 15 feet from any structure; or
         (b)   The location is not less than 30 feet from any structure and
adequate provision is made to prevent fire from spreading to within 30 feet of
any structure.
      (4)   Attendance of fires. Any fire authorized by this section shall be
constantly attended by a competent person until such fire is extinguished. This
person shall have a garden hose connected to the water supply, or other fire
extinguishing equipment readily available for use.
      (5)   Dried leaves only. No person shall kindle or maintain any fire
permitted by this section or authorize such fire to be ignited or maintained if
the material to be burned consists of anything other than dried leaves.
   (E)   Approved waste burners. An approved waste burner for the purposes of
this section shall be constructed of fire resistant material, have a capacity
of at least three bushels, be maintained with a minimum burning capacity of at
least two bushels, and have a cover which is closed when in use and openings in
the top or sides of one inch maximum diameter. No combustible material shall be
nearer than three feet to the burner or incinerator when in use.
(Prior Code, § 92.05) (Ord. 82-3, passed 6-28-1982) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.06 OPEN BURNING PERMITTED.
   (A)   Except as authorized by this section, open burning of any materials is
prohibited. This prohibition does not apply to burning conducted by
governmental authorities who have secured permission from the Fire Chief or to
outdoor cooking using only propane or charcoal.
   (B)   Outdoor recreational or cooking fires may be permitted subject to the
following requirements.
      (1)   All fires must be in approved outdoor fireplaces or a pit which is
at least one foot below grade. A pit must be located at least 15 feet from
buildings, fences, property lines, or flammable materials. Pits may be no more
that three feet in diameter and the outside edge shall be ringed with brick or
rock. Commercially manufactured steel and outdoor fire pits may be used
provided they are not more than three feet in diameter.
      (2)   Only wood that is less than two feet in length may be burned while
being totally contained in an approved outdoor fireplace or pit. No leaves,
trash, treated or painted wood, or any other materials may be burned. All
burning must be contained in the pit at all times.
      (3)   Fires must be managed and maintained so that fires do not exceed
three feet above the pit, and persons are able to stand within four feet of the
fire.
      (4)   The fire shall be attended by an adult at all times and must be
extinguished when unattended. An adequate source of water must be available at
the pit for extinguishing the fire.
      (5)   The Police Department is authorized to require recreational fires
be immediately extinguished if it is determined by the Department’s staff that
the fire constitutes a dangerous condition, or if the fire is burning without
being permitted, or in violation of the permits conditions. Failure to comply
with any provisions of this section, with the conditions of the permit or with
an order of the Police Department or its agents, is a violation of this
section.
      (6)   If the city’s Fire Department is in fact called to the fire you
will be billed for the fire call in its entirety.
(Prior Code, § 92.06) (Ord. 212, passed 6-12-2000; Ord. 92, passed 6-10-2013)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07 BLIGHT.
   (A)   Causes of blight or blighting factor.
      (1)   It is hereby determined that the uses, structures, and activities
and causes of blight or blighting factors described herein, if allowed to
exist, will tend to result in blighted and undesirable neighborhoods, so as to
be harmful to the public welfare, health, and safety.
      (2)   On and after the effective date of this section, no person, firm,
or corporation of any kind shall maintain or permit to be maintained any of
these causes of blight or blighting factors upon any property in the city
owned, leased, rented, or occupied by such person, firm, or corporation:
         (a)   In any area, the storage upon any property of junk automobiles.
For the purpose of this section, the term JUNK AUTOMOBILES shall include any
motor vehicle, part of a motor vehicle, or former motor vehicle, stored in the
open, which is not currently licensed for use upon the highways of the state,
and is either unuseable or inoperable because of lack of, or defects in
component parts; or unuseable or inoperable because of damage from collision,
deterioration, alteration, or other factors; beyond repair and, therefore, not
intended for future use as a motor vehicle; or being retained on the property
for possible use of salvageable parts;
         (b)   In any area the storage or accumulation of junk, trash, rubbish,
or refuse of any kind, except refuse stored in such a manner as not to create a
nuisance for a period not to exceed 30 days. The term JUNK shall include parts
of machinery or motor vehicles, unused stoves, or other appliances stored in
the open; remnants of wood; decayed, weathered, or broken construction
materials no longer suitable for sale, approved building materials; and metal
or other cast off material of any kind, whether or not the same could be put to
any reasonable use;
         (c)   In any area the existence of any structure or part of any
structure which because of fire, wind, or other natural disaster, or physical
deterioration is no longer habitable as a dwelling or useful for any purpose
for which it may have been intended;
         (d)   In any area the existence of any vacant dwelling, garage, or
other out building, unless such buildings are kept securely locked, windows
kept glazed or neatly boarded up and otherwise protected to prevent entrance
thereto by vandals; or
         (e)   In any area the existence of any structure whose exterior wall
surface is not in good repair or has not been maintained with paint and the
like so as to cause a blighting effect in the area where the structure is
located.
      (3)   The outside parking and storage on residentially-zoned property of
a large number of vehicles and materials, supplies, or equipment not
customarily used for residential purposes in violation of the requirements set
forth below are declared to be a public nuisance because it obstructs views on
streets and private property, creates cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas,
prevents the full use of residential streets for residential parking,
introduces commercial advertising signs into areas where commercial advertising
is otherwise prohibited, decreases adjoining landowners’ and occupants'
enjoyment of their property and neighborhood, and otherwise adversely affects
property values and neighborhood patterns. No more than a combination of five
vehicles, boats, cars, trailers, campers, RVs, motorcycles, semi-tractors, or
other similar motor vehicles may be parked on a property. All shall be licensed
and insured. Semi-trailers and storage containers in any form are not
permitted.
         (a)   The parking surface for the vehicles or equipment shall be an
improved surface such as pavement, asphalt, or sufficient gravel to support the
weight of the vehicle. No grass or weeds shall be apparent under or around said
vehicles and trailers on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles or equipment as herein defined parked on a driveway for
the purpose of loading and unloading may remain parked or stored in the front
yard for a period not to exceed 48 hours.
         (c)   Parking will not be permitted on vacant properties.
   (B)   Enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   The owner and the occupant of any property upon which any of the
causes of blight or blighted factors set forth in division (A) hereof is found
to exist, shall be notified, by writing, by the City Administrator to remove or
eliminate such causes of blight or blighting factors from such property within
ten days after service of the notice upon him or her. Such notice may be served
personally or by mail, the same by certified mail, return receipt requested, to
the last know address of the owner, and if the premises are occupied, to the
premises. Additional time may be granted by the enforcement officer when bona
fide efforts to remove or eliminate such causes or blight or blighting factors
are in progress.
      (2)   Failure to comply with such notice within the time allowed shall
constitute a violation of this section.
      (3)   Violation of this section may be a misdemeanor.
      (4)   In the case of failure to remove any blight within the time
prescribed, the city shall remove any garbage, refuse, or other materials
accumulated on such property at the expense of the owner. If not paid, the City
Administrator shall certify such cost to the County Auditor as a special
assessment against the property involved for collection in the same manner as
other special assessments. As an additional or alternative remedy, the owners
of any interest in the land and the occupant shall be jointly and severally
liable for such costs and the costs shall be recoverable in any action brought
against any of the in the name of the city.
(Prior Code, § 92.07) (Ord. 173, passed 6-9-1992; Ord. 240, passed 10-12-2021)
§ 92.08 NOISE.
   (A)   Noises prohibited.
      (1)   General prohibition. No person shall make or cause to be made any
distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs,
injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace, safety, or welfare of
any person or precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s
value. This general prohibition is not limited by the specific restrictions of
the following divisions.
      (2)   Horns, audible signaling devices, and the like. No person shall
sound any audible signaling device on any vehicle except as a warning of
danger, as required by M.S. § 169.68, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   Exhaust. No person shall discharge the exhaust or permit the
discharge of the exhaust of any stream engine, stationary internal combustion
engine, motor boat, motor vehicle, motorcycle, or snowmobile except through a
muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises
therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and regulations.
         (a)   No person shall use dynamic or jake brakes causing unnecessary
noises and vibrations.
         (b)   No person shall allow a diesel engine to idle for periods longer
than 30 minutes in residential areas
      (4)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so out
of repair or so loaded as to create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling, or other noise.
      (5)   Loading, unloading, unpacking. No person shall create loud or
excessive noise in loading, unloading, or unpacking any vehicle.
      (6)   Radios, phonographs, telephones, any communication system, paging
systems, and the like. No person shall use or operate or permit the use or
operation of any radio receiving set, musical instrument, phonograph,
telephone, communication system, paging system, machine, or other device for
the production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly audible manner
as to unreasonably disturb the peace, quiet, and comfort of any person nearby.
Operation of any such set, instrument, phonograph, machine, or other device in
such a manner as to be plainly audible at the property line of the structure or
building in which it is located, in the hallway or apartment adjacent, or at a
distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a structure or building
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
      (7)   Participation in noisy parties or gatherings. No person shall
participate in any party or other gathering of people giving rise to noise,
unreasonably disturbing the peace, quiet, or repose of another person. When a
police officer determines that a gathering is creating such a noise
disturbance, the officer may order all persons present, other than the owner or
tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disperse
immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered by a police
officer to do so. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has knowledge of
the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance
is stopped.
      (8)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers for advertising, and the like. No person
shall operate or permit the use or operation of any loudspeaker, sound
amplifier, or other device for the production or reproduction of sound on a
street or other public place for the purpose of commercial advertising or
attracting the attention of the public to any commercial establishment.
      (9)   Animals. No person shall keep any animal that unreasonably disturbs
the comfort or repose of persons in the vicinity by its frequent or continued
noise. For purposes of this section, DISTURBS THE COMFORT OR REPOSE OF PERSONS
IN THE VICINITY BY ITS FREQUENT OR CONTINUED NOISE means any one of the
following:
         (a)   The animal noise occurs at a time between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m. and can be heard from a location outside the building and premises where
the animal is being kept, and the animal has made such noises intermittently
for more than three minutes with one minute or less lapse of time between each
animal noise during the three minute period;
         (b)   The animal noise can be heard from a one block distance from the
location of the building and premises where the animal is being kept, and the
animal has made such noises intermittently for more than three minutes with one
minute or less lapse of time between each animal noise during the three minute
period; or
         (c)   The animal noise can be heard from a location outside the
building and premises where the animal is being kept, and the animal has made
such noises intermittently for a period of at least five minutes with one
minute or less lapse of time between each animal noise during the five-minute
period.
      (10)   Schools, churches, hospitals, and the like. No person shall create
any excessive noise on a street, alley, or public grounds adjacent to any
school, institution of learning, church, or hospital when the noise
unreasonably interferes with the working of the institution or disturbs or
unduly annoys its occupants or residents and when conspicuous signs indicate
the presence of such institution.
   (B)   Hourly restriction on certain operations.
      (1)   Recreational vehicles. No person shall, between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m., drive or operate any minibike, snowmobile, or other
recreational vehicle not licensed for travel on public highways or ditches.
      (2)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher garden tiller, edger, drill, or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any Monday through Saturday or between the hours of
9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any Sunday or holiday. Snow removal equipment is
exempt from this provision.
      (3)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any Monday through Saturday or between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any Sunday or holiday. Business/industrial zones are
exempt.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Enforcement duties. The Police Department shall enforce the
provisions of this section. The Police Department may inspect private premises
other than private residences and shall make all reasonable efforts to prevent
violations of this section.
      (2)   Civil remedies. This section may be enforced by injunction, action
for abatement, or other appropriate civil remedy.
      (3)   Noise impact statements.
         (a)   The Council may require any person applying for a change in
zoning classification or a permit or license for any structure, operation,
process, installation or alteration, or project that may be considered a
potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a form prescribed
by Council.
         (b)   It shall evaluate each such statement and take its evaluation
into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit applied for or
the zoning change requested.
(Prior Code, § 92.08) (Ord. 209, passed 6-14-1999) Penalty, see §
92.99
GRASS/WEEDS
§ 92.20 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Grass and Weed Ordinance”.
(Prior Code, § 92.20) (Ord. 234, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 92.21 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or county
ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended, or repealed.
(Prior Code, § 92.21) (Ord. 234, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 92.22 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Administrator or designated
city official on the property owner of the ordinance violation.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal title
or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-of-
way, easement, license, or lease.
   WEEDS, GRASSES, AND RANK VEGETATION. Includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Noxious weeks and rank vegetation shall include, but not be limited
to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quakgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild
Mustard, Wild Onion, Wild Parsnip;
      (2)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years:
      (3)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
      (4)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers, or
other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding eight inches;
      (5)   RANK VEGETATION includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth of
annuals and perennial plants; and
      (6)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated plants,
or crops.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
(Prior Code, § 92.22) (Ord. 234, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 92.23 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL, AND THE LIKE.
   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting, or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses, and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property which, at the time of notice, is in
excess of six inches in height.
(Prior Code, § 92.23) (Ord. 234, passed 7-9-2007; Ord. 2019-241, passed 8-12-
2019) Penalty, see §
92.99 
§ 92.24 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated, and
filed with the City Administrator. If the city makes the complaint, an
employee, officer, or Council member of the city shall file the complaint in
all respects as set out above.
(Prior Code, § 92.24) (Ord. 234, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 92.25 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of grass or weeds in
violation of this subchapter, the City Administrator, or his or her designated
official, shall make an inspection of the property regarding the condition. The
City Administrator, upon concluding that there is probable belief that this
subchapter has been violated, shall forward a written notification in the form
of a “Destruction Order” to the property owner.
   (B)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with the
City Administrator.
   (C)   All notices provided herein shall be served in the same manner as a
summons in a civil action in the District Court or by certified mail. Service
on persons living temporarily or permanently outside of the city whose property
is vacant or unoccupied may be made by sending the notice by certified mail to
the last known address of such person, to be ascertained, if necessary, from
the last tax list in the County Treasurer’s office.
(Prior Code, § 92.25) (Ord. 234, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 92.26 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Administrator within 48 hours of the “destruction order”,
excluding weekends and holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of
the City Administrator. It is the property owner’s responsibility to
demonstrate that the matter in question is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, or
crops or is not otherwise in violation of this subchapter, and should not be
subject to destruction under the subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the Council members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 92.26) (Ord. 234, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 92.27 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   (A)   If any such property owner fails to comply with the “destruction
order” within seven days of such notice and has not filed a notice within 48
hours to the City Administrator of an intent to appeal, the city shall cause
such grass or weeds to be cut and the expenses incurred shall be collected
according to §
92.28.
   (B)   The city may employ the services of city employees or outside
contractors and remove the grass or weeds to conform to this subchapter by all
lawful means.
(Prior Code, § 92.27) (Ord. 234, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 92.28 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting, or
destruction of grass or weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is liable for all collection costs associated with
grass or weed destruction, including, but not limited to, court costs,
attorneys fees, and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the
city uses municipal employees, equipment, supplies, and chemicals, it shall set
and assign a rate of $100 per hour with a one hour minimum. The city may also
bill the property owner for the actual cost of any damages to city equipment
accrued during the destruction of the grass or weeds, plus such sums as
determined by the City Council to reimburse the city for its costs of
inspection. Future establishment of fees may be done by city resolution.
   (C)   All sums owed by the property owner are to be billed and are payable
to the city and are to be deposited in the General Fund as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All unpaid payables by the property owner may be collected as a
special assessment against the real estate as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it
may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 92.28) (Ord. 234, passed 7-9-2007)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of any of the provisions of §
92.05 shall be petty misdemeanors. The third violation and all subsequent
violations within a one-year period of time shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 92.05)
   (C)   Any violation of §
92.08 involving the operation of a motor vehicle is a petty misdemeanor and,
upon conviction, the violator shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $100
(or the maximum fine allowed by law). Every person who violates any other
provision of §
92.08 is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to a
fine of not more than $700 (or the maximum fine allowed by law) or imprisonment
for a term not to exceed 90 days, or both. In all cases the city shall be
entitled to collect the costs of prosecution to the extent outlined by law,
Rules of Criminal Procedure, and the Rules of Court. Each act of violation and
each day a violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 92.08)
(Ord. 82-3, passed 6-28-1982; Ord. 209, passed 6-14-1999)
CHAPTER 93: ANIMALS AND LICENSING
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Definitions
   
93.02   License requirements
   
93.03   Control of animal
   
93.04   Impoundment
   
93.05   Service dog
Regulations
   
93.20   General prohibition
   
93.21   Vicious animals
   
93.22   Areas where keeping prohibited
   
93.23   Muzzling proclamation
   
93.24   Animals at large
   
93.25   Diseased animals
   
93.26   Care and maintenance required
   
93.27   Noise
   
93.28   Keeping of certain animals regulated
   
93.29   Keeping of certain animals prohibited
   
93.30   Confinement of certain animals
   
93.31   Animal enclosure
   
93.32   Dangerous dogs
   
93.33   Limitation of quantity of animals
   
93.34   Census taking
   
93.35   City wide leash regulation
   
93.36   Commercial kennel
   
93.37   Chickens within city limits
   
93.38   Animal fees
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT. The releasing of a dog, cat, or other animal within the city
under circumstances where the dog, cat, or other animal is thereafter found
unleashed or otherwise unattended or restrained in the city. The failure of a
person required by this chapter to pay any fee in connection with the restraint
or impoundment of any dog, cat, or other animal this resulting in the dog, cat,
or other animal remaining at the place of restraint or impoundment shall be
deemed ABANDONMENT. Circumstances amounting to a charge of running at large if
occurring at a frequency more than two times in any 90-day period shall be
deemed ABANDONMENT.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or portion of a main building
which is located on the same lot as the main building and the use of which is
clearly incidental to the use of the main building.
   ANIMAL. Any mammal, reptile, amphibian, fish, bird (including fowl and
poultry), or other member commonly accepted as part of the animal kingdom
including, but not limited to, cattle, horses, mules, sheep, goats, swine,
ponies, ducks, geese, pheasants, turkeys, chickens, rabbits, guinea hens, dogs,
cats, and feathered fowl. ANIMALS shall be classified as follows.
      (1)   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly accepted as domesticated
household pets. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include dogs,
cats, caged birds, gerbils, hamsters, guinea pigs, domesticated rabbits, fish,
non-poisonous, non-venomous and non-constricting reptiles or amphibians, and
other similar animals.
      (2)   FARM ANIMAL. Those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, such
animals shall include members of the equestrian family (horses, mules), bovine
family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl (duck, geese,
pheasant), swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, bees, and
other animals associated with a farm, ranch, or stables.
      (3)   NON-DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Those animals commonly considered to be
naturally wild and not naturally trained or domesticated, or which are commonly
considered to be inherently dangerous to the health, safety, and welfare of
people. Unless otherwise defined, such animals shall include:
         (a)   Any member of the large cat family (family felidae) including
lions, cougars, bobcats, leopards, and jaguars, but excluding accepted
domesticated house cats;
         (b)   Any naturally wild member of the canine family (family canidae)
including wolves, foxes, coyotes, dingos, and jackals, but excluding commonly
accepted domesticated dogs;
         (c)   Any crossbreeds such as the crossbreed between a wolf and a dog
or a coyote and a dog, unless the crossbreed is commonly accepted as a
domesticated house pet;
         (d)   Any member or relative of the rodent family including any skunk,
raccoon, squirrel, or ferret, but excluding those otherwise deemed or commonly
accepted as domesticated pets;
         (e)   Any poisonous, venomous, constructing, or inherently dangerous
member of the reptile or amphibian families including rattlesnakes, boa
constrictors, pit vipers, crocodiles, and alligators; and
         (f)   Any other animal which is not explicitly listed above, but which
can be reasonably defined by these definitions, including, but not limited to,
bears, deer, monkeys, and game fish.
   ANIMAL ENCLOSURE. Any building or portion thereof, structure, or area
including pens, dog houses, kennels, and outside runs that are principally used
or designed for use as a place for the keeping of animals. For purposes of this
section, an electronic pet containment system shall not be deemed to be an
ANIMAL ENCLOSURE.
   AT LARGE. Whenever an animal is off the premises of its owner unless
controlled by a leash not to exceed six feet in length with the following
exception: while on the private property of another with the landowner’s
permission, provided the animal owner is present City Animal Shelter.
   BITE(S). Has seized with the teeth or jaws so that the skin of the person or
animal seized has been nipped or gripped, or has been wounded or pierced, and
including, but not limited to, scratches, and including but not limited to
probable contact of salvia with a break or abrasion of the skin. The term shall
also include but not be limited to contact of salvia with any mucous membrane.
   CAT. Both the male and female sex whether neutered or not of any variety of
the Felidae family, including all varieties and species of the common or
domestic cat whether the same are wild or tame.
   CHICKEN. A domesticated fowl of the genus Gallus and species G. gallus.
   CHICKEN COOP. Any structure used for the housing of chickens.
   CHICKEN RUN. A fenced outside yard for the keeping of chickens.
   COMMERCIAL KENNEL. An establishment wherein any person is engaged in the
business of boarding, breeding, showing, treating or grooming, buying, letting
for hire, training, for a fee or selling dogs or cats.
   CONFINED. Restriction of an animal at all times by the owner, or his or her
agent, to an escape-proof building or other enclosure, away from other animals
and the public.
   DANGEROUS DOG and POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. The terms have the same
meanings as defined by M.S. § 347.50.
   DOG. Both the male and female sex, whether neutered or not, of the Canidae
family, including the common or domestic dog whether wild or tame.
   DOMESTICATED ANIMAL. An animal domesticated by humans so as to live and
breed in a tame condition.
   ELECTRONIC PET CONTAINMENT SYSTEMS. A system created by the installation of
conductors on the ground or under the ground which emit or cause to be emitted
an electronic signal for the purpose of confining animals within a
predetermined area.
   ENFORCING OFFICERS. The Council is hereby authorized to appoint city
personnel or law enforcement officers to enforce the provisions of this
chapter. In the appointed personnel or law enforcement officer’s duty of
enforcing the provisions of this chapter, he or she may from time to time, with
the consent of the City Council, designate assistants.
   EXCESSIVE KENNEL. The keeping of four or more dogs on the same premises,
whether owned by the same person or not, and for whatever purpose kept, shall
constitute an EXCESSIVE KENNEL; except that a fresh litter of pups may be kept
for a period of three months before such keeping shall be deemed to be an
EXCESSIVE KENNEL. The keeping of four or more cats on the same premises,
whether owned by the same person or not, and for whatever purpose kept, shall
constitute an EXCESSIVE KENNEL; except that a fresh litter of kittens may be
kept for a period of three months before such keeping shall be deemed an
EXCESSIVE KENNEL.
   IMPOUND. Seize and hold in legal custody.
   LEASH. A chain, rope, or strap not to exceed 12 feet in length, attached to
the collar or harness of an animal or under the control of an electronic collar
and used to lead it or hold it in check.
   LIVESTOCK. Farm animals kept for use, pleasure, or profit, including,
without limitation, horses, mules, sheep, goats, cattle, swine, and fowl.
   OWN. To own, harbor, keep, or have custody of an animal or be the parent or
guardian of a person under 18 years of age who owns, harbors, keeps, or has
custody of an animal.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, harbors, feeds, boards, keeps, or otherwise
possesses an animal and is presumed to be the owner or tenant of the residence
real estate at which the animal is normally kept, remains, or to which the
animal returns; or the owner or manager in charge of the establishment or
premises at which the animal is kept, remains, or to which it returns. Any
parent or guardian of any non-emancipated minor owner under the age of 18 years
of age shall be presumed to be the actual OWNER of the animal and the
responsible party for the animal’s care, control, licensing, and action.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, a company, firm, partnership, corporation,
trust, limited liability company, and any association of persons or other legal
entity.
   PICKET. To restrain an animal by means of a chain, leash, or other
attachment to a fixed object, thereby confining the animal to a determined
area.
   REAR YARD. A portion of an improved lot between the principal building
located on such lot and the rear lines of the lot, which space is unoccupied
except for accessory buildings.
   RESIDENTIAL HOBBY KENNEL. A place where three or more dogs or cats are kept.
Wherein any person is engaged in the business of breeding.
   RESTRAINT. The control of an animal under any of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   When it is controlled by a lead, line, or leash that is secured to
a secure object of held by a person who is capable of controlling and governing
the animal in question;
      (2)   When it is within a fully enclosed vehicle;
      (3)   When it is on the premises of the owner and/or custodian;
      (4)   When it is restrained securely within an enclosure or fence; or
      (5)   When it is under the physical control of the owner or custodian.
   ZONING. Certain animals in R-l, R-2, B-l, and/or AG zoning districts.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014; Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Dog license required. A license shall be required for every dog over
the age of six months kept in the city. This shall not apply to any dog
temporarily present within the city for a period of less than 30 days.
   (B)   Proof of vaccination. Proof of rabies vaccination must be presented at
the time of initial licensing and each subsequent license renewal. The City
Administrator shall not issue any license for a dog or cat until the applicant
furnishes a certificate from a veterinarian certified indicating that the
animal has been vaccinated for rabies within the preceding two years and any
other mandated by laws of the state.
   (C)   License fee. Licenses for dogs and hen chickens shall be issued on an
annual basis and shall expire on July 15 in the year following their issuance.
License fees shall be set by the City Council by resolution and may be changed
from time to time in the same manner.
   (D)   Receipts and tags. Upon payment of the license fee, the city shall
deliver an original receipt to the owner and retain a duplicate of such
receipt. At the time of initial licensing, the city shall also deliver a
metallic tag to the owner of the dog. The City Administrator shall record the
licenses issued. The annual license fee for male dogs or cats, neutered male
dogs, spayed female dogs, and hen chickens shall be in accordance with the
schedule set by resolution. In applying for the latter type license, written
proof is required for a licensed veterinarian that the animal being licensed
has been neutered or spayed.
      (1)   The owner shall cause the tag to be fastened to the collar of the
dog with a permanent metal fastening in a manner so that the tag may be easily
seen by the officers of the city.
      (2)   If a tag is lost, a duplicate tag may be issued by the city upon
presentation of a receipt showing the payment of the license fee for the
current year. The city shall charge a fee for each duplicate tag in the amount
set forth in § 185 of this code.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to counterfeit or attempt to counterfeit the
tag or to take from any dog such a tag legally placed upon it by its owner with
the intent to place it upon another dog, or to place such tag upon another dog.
   (E)   Chicken license required. A license shall be required for every hen
chicken kept in the city.
(Ord. 183, passed 7-12-1994; Ord. passed 8-11-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 CONTROL OF ANIMAL.
   (A)   Habitual barking. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks, cries, howls, yelps, or otherwise, produce
noise that unreasonably disturbs the peace, quiet, or repose of a person or
persons of ordinary sensibility.
   (B)   Damage to property. It shall be unlawful for any person’s dog or other
animal to damage any lawn, garden, or other property, whether or not the owner
has knowledge of the damage.
   (C)   Cleaning up litter. The owner of any animal or person having the
custody or control of any animal shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces
of the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner whether on their
own property, on the property of others, or on public property.
   (D)   Chasing vehicles or persons. Any animal which habitually chases motor
vehicles on public streets, or threatens, worries, or chases pedestrians,
bicyclists, or other persons on public property, public areas, or private
property other than property owned or possessed by the owner of the animal
shall be deemed a public nuisance.
   (E)   Attacking animals. Any domesticated animal which attacks, wounds,
worries, injures, or kills any domestic animal or wildlife shall be deemed a
public nuisance.
   (F)   Leash. It should be properly anchored and if sufficient strength to
prevent the animal from freeing itself or under the control of an electronic
collar by the owner/person.
   (G)   Abandonment. It is unlawful for any person to abandon a dog or other
animal within the city.
   (H)   Other. Any animals kept contrary to this section are subject to
impoundment as provided in §
93.04.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014; Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 IMPOUNDMENT.
   The city police officers may impound any animal found, or, by complaint of
the city, believed to be, in violation of this section.
   (A)   Notice. If the identity of the owner of an impounded animal is known,
the impounder of such animal shall notify such owner as soon after such
impounding as is reasonably possible. If the identity of the owner of an
impounded animal is not known, the impounder of such animal, within 24 hours of
such impounding, shall file an impounding notice describing the animal and
stating the date and place where it was seized. Such notice shall be filed at
City Hall.
   (B)   Redemption. Any animal impounded for a reason other than rabies
observation or for biting a person in violation of Subsection 93 may be
redeemed from the designated animal shelter by its owner within five business
days of impounding by paying to the city the redemption fees in the amounts set
forth in § 185 and a license fee if the animal is required to be licensed and
is unlicensed. The Police Department shall release any redeemed animal to its
owner. Any animal seized as a dangerous animal shall be kept for seven regular
business days after posting of notice for the owner to claim it. Any animal
seized from the custody of an owner, kennel, or other person because of cruel
or inhumane treatment will be held for not less than ten regular business days.
   (C)   Animal disposal. The Police Department may dispose of any animal
either alive or deceased upon the request of its owner, the payment to the city
of a fee in the amount set forth in § 185 of this code, and the receipt by the
city of a liability release signed by such animal’s owner.
   (D)   Disposition of unredeemed animals. Any animal not redeemed within five
business days after impounding shall either be surrendered to the local humane
society or painlessly disposed of or surrendered for research purposes to any
educational or scientific institution licensed pursuant to state law. The fees
for the disposal of unclaimed animals will be set by the designated animal
shelter. If the owner of the animal is known and the owner does not pick up the
animal after being notified, all charges will be billed to the owner of the
animal.
   (E)   Objection by owner; court order. Any owner may object to the
impounding or disposition of the animal by signing and filing an objection with
the city within five days after the action objected to was taken. Within 20
days after impounding of an animal, if the animal is not redeemed or if the
city is unable to reach agreement with the owner regarding the keeping of the
animal in a manner consistent with the provisions of this section, the city may
bring an action in the appropriate court by serving on the owner a complaint
setting forth the violation of this section which caused the city to take
action. The court may then order the return of the animal to its owner with or
without payment of redemption fees by the owner; or the disposal, destruction,
or sale of the animal; or, if the animal has been improperly disposed or sold,
the payment to the owner of the reasonable value of the animal; or imposition
on the owner of the same penalty as that for commission of a misdemeanor; or
any two or more of the foregoing or any other remedy the court determines just
and proper. When an objection has been filed with the city, the city shall not
dispose of or sell the animal referred to in the objection if it is still in
the pound, but shall within ten days after filing of such objection, either
return the animal to the owner, without liability on the owner’s part for any
fees, or keep it pending agreement with the owner or order of the court as
provided above. If the animal has been disposed of or sold without a court
order, the city, after such filing, shall either pay to the owner the
reasonable value of the animal or begin the action described in this division
(E).
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014)
§ 93.05 SERVICE DOG.
   (A)   Any properly identified service dog that aids persons who are totally
or partially blind, deaf, or who have physical or sensory disabilities will be
issued a dog license at no charge upon proof the dog has been certified as a
service dog and has received a current rabies vaccination.
   (B)   Any properly identified law enforcement animal will be issued a dog
license at no charge upon proof the dog has been certified as a service dog and
has received a current rabies vaccination.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014)
REGULATIONS
§ 93.20 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No person shall keep any animal in the city or permit the animal to be
kept on the premises owned, occupied, or controlled by him or her, except under
the conditions prescribed by this chapter.
   (B)   The following are permitted within the city: all animals normally
identified as pets.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall keep a dog or cat within the city when the animal has
shown an unprovoked tendency to attack, bite, scratch, claw, or otherwise
injure or attempt to injure any person.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties set forth in §
10.99, the owner, caretaker, or person in possession of a vicious dog or cat
shall either destroy the animal or remove it permanently to a location outside
the city.
(Ord. 183, passed 7-12-1994; Ord. passed 8-11-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22 AREAS WHERE KEEPING PROHIBITED.
   No horse, pony, mule, donkey, cattle, swine, sheep, or goat shall be kept in
the city, except within the agricultural zone.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.23 MUZZLING PROCLAMATION.
   Upon written advice that a dog found in the city is infected with rabies or
hydrophobia and that the safety and general welfare of the public is at risk,
the Manager may order, by proclamation, that all dogs be muzzled when off the
premises of the owner, and that all un-muzzled dogs found off the premises of
the owner be immediately impounded. Forty-eight hours after the proclamation
has been published, either by posting or printing in the official newspaper,
the City Administrator may further order that all un-muzzled dogs found off the
premises of the owner shall be impounded and destroyed, except that an officer
may immediately destroy such an unmuzzled dog if it cannot be impounded with
reasonable effort. Any dog impounded during the first 48 hours after the
publishing of any such proclamation, if claimed within ten days and if not
infected with hydrophobia or rabies, shall be returned to its owner after
payment of all fees described in §
93.38, but after said ten days, such dog may be destroyed.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014)
§ 93.24 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit any animal of which he or she is the owner,
caretaker, or custodian to be at large within the city. Any such animal is
deemed to be at large when it is off the premises owned or rented by the owner
or the owner’s agent and not under the owner’s individual restraint.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.25 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   Any animal with a contagious disease shall be so confined that it cannot
come within 50 feet of any public roadway or any place where animals belonging
to or harbored by other persons are kept.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014)
§ 93.26 CARE AND MAINTENANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Manner of keeping.
      (1)   No person shall keep any animal in the city in an unsanitary place
or condition or in a manner resulting in objectionable odors or in such a way
as to constitute a nuisance or disturbance by reason of barking, howling,
fighting, or other noise or in such a way as to permit the animal to annoy,
injure, or endanger any person or property. A violation of this section shall
be a misdemeanor.
      (2)   No owner shall fail to provide any animal with sufficient good food
and water, proper shelter and protection from the weather, veterinary care when
needed to prevent suffering, and humane care and treatment. A person in charge
or control of any dog which is kept outdoors or in a unhealed enclosure shall
provide the dog with shelter and bedding as prescribed in M.S. § 343.40.
   (B)   Care of premises. No person shall permit feces, urine, or food scraps
to remain in an area for a period that is longer than reasonable and consistent
with health and sanitation and the prevention of odors. Manure shall be removed
with sufficient frequency to avoid nuisance from odors or from the breeding of
flies, at least once per month from November 1 to April 1 of each year and once
every week at other times. Unless used for fertilizer, manure shall be removed
by hauling beyond the city limits. If used for fertilizer, manure shall be
spread upon the ground evenly and turned under at once or as soon as the frost
leaves the ground.
   (C)   Maltreatment. No person shall beat, treat cruelly, torment, or
otherwise abuse any animal, or cause or permit any animal fights. No owner of
an animal shall abandon such animal.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 93.27 NOISE.
   (A)   Disturbing peace and quiet. No person owning, operating, having charge
of, or occupying, any building or premises shall keep or allow to be kept any
animal which shall, by any noise, unreasonably disturb the peace and quiet of
any person in the vicinity. The phrase UNREASONABLY DISTURB THE PEACE AND QUIET
shall include, but is not limited to, the creation of any noise by any animal
which can be heard by any person, including a law enforcement officer, from a
location outside of the building or premises where the animal is being kept and
which animal noise unreasonably disturbs the peace, quiet, or repose of a
person or persons of ordinary sensibility. It shall be considered “disturbing
peace and quiet” for any animal, including dogs and chickens to habitually or
frequently make animal noises including barking, crying, howling, whimpering,
or clucking.
   (B)   Complaint. Any person may call or deliver a complaint to the Police
Department stating facts and circumstances of an alleged violation of this
section. The Police Department shall investigate such complaint. If a violation
occurs in the presence of a police officer, a summons may be issued. If
probable cause of a violation exists, which violation did not occur in the
presence of the police officer, all reports, witness statements, and evidence
may be submitted to the City Prosecuting Attorney for a formal complaint.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014)
§ 93.28 KEEPING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS REGULATED.
   No person shall keep any rabbits, mice, hamsters, guinea pigs or other
rodents, ferrets, or any bird on any premises used for residential purposes
except in a metal cage so constructed that it may be completely and easily
cleaned and that the animal or animals kept therein are completely enclosed and
protected from children and animals on the outside. Such animals at all times
shall be kept within the dwelling or an accessory building.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014)
§ 93.29 KEEPING OF CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall keep within the city:
   (A)   Any livestock;
   (B)   Any mammal belonging to the order Carnivora except dogs, cats, and
ferrets. For the purposes of this division (B), the bloodline of an individual
animal must comprise not less than 51% domestic breeds;
   (C)   Honeybees and apiaries; or
   (D)   Venomous snakes.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014)
§ 93.30 CONFINEMENT OF CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   Animal in heat. Any animal in heat shall be kept confined in a manner
which will prevent its escape and access thereto by other animals.
   (B)   Fierce animal. Any domesticated animal of a fierce, dangerous, or
vicious nature or disposition shall be confined in a manner which will prevent
its escape and its causing harm to persons; and in a place from which it cannot
be released except by its owner and except when muzzled and under the control
of a competent person.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014)
§ 93.31 ANIMAL ENCLOSURE.
   (A)   Size and location. Whether now existing or hereafter constructed,
shall not exceed 300 square feet in area and shall be placed only in the rear
yard and no closer than 20 feet to any property line. A person in charge or
control of any dog which is kept outdoors or in an unheated enclosure shall
provide the dog with shelter and bedding as prescribed in M.S. § 343.40 as a
minimum. Shade from the direct rays of the sun, during the months of May to
October shall be provided. Dog house specifications are defined by M.S. §
343.40, Subd.2.
   (B)   Electronic pet containment systems. No electronic pet containment
system shall be installed which allows any animal confined by the system to
occupy any area within ten feet of a public sidewalk or within ten feet of the
traveled portion of a public street if there is no public sidewalk. Electronic
pet containment systems installed within any public right-of-way or public
easement shall be owned and maintained by the owner of the system. The City
Administrator may direct the removal or relocation of an electronic pet
containment system from any public right-of-way or public easement at the sole
cost and expense of the owner of the electronic pet containment system if the
City Administrator determines the system interferes with the public’s use of
the right-of-way or easement. The cost of any repair to electronic pet
containment systems which are damaged due to the public’s use of a public
right-of-way or public easement shall be borne solely by the owner of the
system.
   (C)   Picketing. No dog shall be picketed in such a manner as to create a
nuisance by reason of odor or unreasonably disturbing the peace and quiet as
defined in ordinance
93.22 or which allows it to occupy any area within 20 feet of a property line.
   (D)   Pens and yards. All structures, pens, coops, or yards wherein animals
are kept or permitted to be shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary
condition, devoid of all rodents and vermin, and free from objectionable odors.
Such structures shall be maintained in good condition and shall be sufficient
in strength and size to allow the particular animal being kept to move about,
but also able to prevent the escape of the animal.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014)
§ 93.32 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
the regulatory and procedural provisions of M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.565 (commonly
referred to as the “Dangerous Dog Regulations”), are adopted by reference.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has, when unprovoked, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Has killed a domestic animal when unprovoked while off the
owner’s property;
         (c)   Has attacked one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (d)   Has been found to be potentially dangerous and after the owner
has notice of the same, the dog aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
      GREAT BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which creates a high probability of
death, or which causes serious permanent disfigurement, or which causes a
permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member
or organ or other serious bodily harm.
      OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, corporation, organization,
department, or association owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, having an
interest in, or having care, custody, or control of a dog.
      MAINTENANCE COSTS. Any costs incurred as a result of seizing an animal
for impoundment, including, but not limited to, the capturing, impounding,
keeping, treating, examining, securing, confining, feeding, destroying,
boarding, or maintaining seized animals, whether these services are provided by
the city or the pound.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has, when unprovoked, inflicted a bite on a human or domestic
animal on public or private property;
         (b)   Has, when unprovoked, chased or approached a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private
property, other than the owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of attack;
or
         (c)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the dog from escaping and to
provide protection for the dog from the elements. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure in
which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only barriers
which prevent the dog from exiting. The ENCLOSURE shall not allow the egress of
the dog in any manner without human assistance. A pen or kennel shall meet the
following minimum specifications:
         (a)   A minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet;
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support post shall be one and one-fourth inch or larger steel pipe
buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided,
the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground;
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls
and openings in the wire shall not exceed two inches; and
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches. The gate shall be self closing and self-locking. The gate shall be
locked at all times when the dog is in the pen or kennel.
      SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Bodily injury that involves a temporary but
substantial disfigurement, or that causes a temporary but substantial loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ, or that causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
      UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the dog is not purposely excited,
stimulated, agitated, or disturbed.
   (C)   Declaration of dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
      (1)   A police officer, community service officer, or animal control
officer may declare a dog to be dangerous or potentially dangerous when the
officer has probable cause to believe that a dog is dangerous or potentially
dangerous. The following factors will be considered in determining a dangerous
or potentially dangerous dog:
         (a)   Whether any injury or damage to a person by the dog was caused
while the dog was protecting or defending a person or the dog’s offspring
within the immediate vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault;
         (b)   The size and strength of the dog, including jaw strength, and
the animal’s propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals; and
         (c)   Whether the dog has wounds, scarring, is observed in a fight, or
has other indications that the dog has been or will be used, trained ,or
encouraged to fight with another animal or whose owner is in possession of any
training apparatus, paraphernalia, or drugs used to prepare such dogs to fight
with other animals.
      (2)   Beginning six months after a dog is declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous, an owner may request annually that the city review the
designation. The owner must provide evidence that the dog’s behavior has
changed due to the dog’s age, neutering, environment, completion of obedience
training, or other factors. If enough evidence is provided, the city may
rescind the designation.
      (3)   Exceptions include the following.
         (a)   The provisions of this section do not apply to dogs used by law
enforcement.
         (b)   Dogs may not be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous if
the threat, injury, or danger was sustained by a person who was:
            1.   Committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner of the dog;
            2.   Provoking, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or who
can be shown to have a history of repeatedly provoking, tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the dog; or
            3.   Committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (D)   License required. The owner must annually license dangerous and
potentially dangerous dogs with the city and must license a newly declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog within 14 days after notice that a dog
has been declared dangerous or potentially dangerous. Regardless of any appeal
that may be requested, the owner must comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52(a) and (c) regarding proper enclosures and notification to the city upon
transfer or death of the dog, until and unless a hearing officer or court of
law reverses the declaration.
      (1)   Process for dangerous dogs. The city will issue a license to the
owner of a dangerous dog if the owner presents sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   Written proof that there is a surety bond by a surety company
authorized to conduct business in the state in the sum of at least $300,000,
payable to any person injured by a dangerous dog, or receipt of a copy of a
policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance company authorized to do
business in the state in the amount of at least $300,000, insuring the owner
for any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog. Such surety bond or
insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the bond or policy will
be made unless the city is notified in writing by the surety company or the
insurance company at least ten days prior to such cancellation;
         (c)   The owner has paid the annual license fee;
         (d)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification number
of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the microchip is not
implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the owner’s expense;
and
         (e)   The owner provides proof that the dog has been sterilized. If
the owner does not sterilize the dog within 30 days, the city shall seize the
dog and sterilize it at the owner’s expense.
      (2)   Process for potentially dangerous dogs. The city will issue a
license to the owner of a potentially dangerous dog if the owner presents
sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   The owner has paid the annual license fee; and
         (c)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
potentially dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and
identification number of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the
microchip is not implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the
owner’s expense.
      (3)   Inspection. A pre-license inspection of the premises to ensure
compliance with the city code is required. If the city issues a license to the
owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, the city shall be allowed at
any reasonable time to inspect the dog, the proper enclosure, and all places
where the animal is kept.
      (4)   Warning symbol. The owner of a dangerous dog licensed under this
section must post a sign with the uniform dangerous dog warning symbol on the
property in order to inform children that there is a dangerous dog on the
property. The sign will be provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (5)   Tags. A dangerous dog licensed under this section must wear a
standardized, easily identifiable tag at all times that contains the uniform
dangerous dog symbol, identifying the dog as dangerous. The tag shall be
provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (6)   License fee. The city will charge the owner an annual license fee
for a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
   (E)   Properly restrained in proper enclosure or outside of proper
enclosure. While on the owner’s property, an owner of a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog must keep it in a proper enclosure. Inside a
residential home, there must be a secured area maintained where the dog will
stay when persons other than family members are present. If the dog is outside
the proper enclosure, the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial
chain or leash no longer than four feet and under the physical restraint of an
adult. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will prevent the dog from
biting any person or animal but that will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration.
   (F)   Notification requirements to city.
      (1)   Relocation or death. The owner of a dog that has been declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous must notify the City Administrator in
writing if the dog is to be relocated from its current address or if the dog
has died. The notification must be given in writing within 30 days of the
relocation or death. The notification must include the current owner’s name and
address, and the new owner’s name and the relocation address. If the relocation
address is outside of the city, the city may notify the local law enforcement
agency of the transfer of the dog into its jurisdiction.
      (2)   Renter’s obligations. A person who owns or possess a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog and who will rent property from another where the dog
will reside must disclose to the property owner prior to entering the lease
agreement and at the time of any lease renewal periods that the person owns or
possesses a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog that will reside at the
property. A dog owner, who is currently renting property, must notify the
property owner within 14 days of city notification if the owned dog is newly
declared as dangerous or potentially dangerous and the owner keep the dog on
the property.
      (3)   Transfer of ownership into the city. No dog that has been
previously determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous by another
jurisdiction shall be kept, owned, or harbored in the city unless the dog’s
owner complies with the requirements of this section prior to bringing the dog
into the city. Dogs in violation of this division (F)(3) are subject to
impoundment and destruction.
   (G)   Seizure. Animal control may immediately seize any dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog if:
      (1)   Fourteen days after the owner has notice that the dog is declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous, the dog is not validly licensed and no
appeal has been filed;
      (2)   Fourteen days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or surety coverage as
required or such required insurance is cancelled;
      (3)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure;
      (4)   The dog is outside the proper enclosure and not under proper
restraint, as required by §
93.31;
      (5)   Thirty days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the dog is not sterilized, as required by division (D)(1)(e) above; or
      (6)   The dog’s microchip has been removed.
   (H)   Reclamation. A dog seized under division (G) above may be reclaimed by
the owner of the dog upon payment of maintenance costs, and presenting proof to
animal control that the requirements of this section have been met. A dog not
reclaimed under this division (H) within seven days may be disposed of and the
owner will be liable to the city for maintenance costs. A person claiming an
interest in a seized dog may prevent disposition of the dog by posting a
security in an amount sufficient to provide for the dog’s maintenance costs.
The security must be posted with the city within seven days of the seizure
inclusive of the date seized.
   (I)   Subsequent offenses; seizure. If a person has been convicted of
violating a provision of this section, and the person is charged with a
subsequent violation relating to the same dog, the dog must be seized. If the
owner is convicted of the crime for which the dog was seized, the court may
order that the dog be destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner pay
the maintenance costs. If the owner is not convicted and the dog is not
reclaimed by the owner within seven days after the owner has been notified that
the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be disposed of, used for research, or
destroyed.
   (J)   Notice; hearings.
      (1)   Notice. After a dog has been declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous or has been seized for destruction, the city shall give notice by
delivering or mailing it to the owner of the dog, or by posting a copy of it at
the place where the dog is kept, or by delivering it to a person residing on
the property, and telephoning, if possible. The notice shall include:
         (a)   A description of the seized dog; the authority for and purpose
of the declaration and seizure; the time, place, and circumstances under which
the dog was declared; and the telephone number and contact person where the dog
is kept;
         (b)   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the declaration and that failure to do so within 14 days of the date
of the notice will terminate the owner’s right to a hearing;
         (c)   A statement that if an appeal request is made within 14 days of
the notice, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52(a) and (c) regarding proper enclosures and notification to the city upon
transfer or death of the dog, until such time as the hearing officer issues an
opinion;
         (d)   A statement that if the hearing officer affirms the dangerous
dog declaration, the owner will have 14 days from receipt of that decision to
comply with all other requirements of M.S. §§ 347.51, 347.515, and 347.52;
         (e)   A form to request a hearing; and
         (f)   A statement that if the dog has been seized, all maintenance
costs of the care, keeping, and disposition of the dog pending the outcome of
the hearing are the responsibility of the owner, unless a court or hearing
officer finds that the seizure or impoundment was not substantially justified
by law.
      (2)   Right to hearing.
         (a)   After a dog has been declared dangerous, potentially dangerous,
or has been seized for destruction, the owner may appeal in writing to the city
within 14 days after notice of the declaration or seizure. Failure to do so
within 14 days of the date of the notice will terminate the owner’s right to a
hearing. The owner must pay a fee set forth in § 185 for an appeal hearing.
         (b)   The appeal hearing will be held within 14 days of the request.
The hearing officer must be an impartial employee of the city or an impartial
person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
         (c)   If the declaration or destruction is upheld by the hearing
officer, actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000, as well as
all maintenance costs, will be the responsibility of the dog’s owner. The
hearing officer shall issue a decision on the matter within ten days after the
hearing. The decision shall be delivered to the dog’s owner by hand delivery or
registered mail as soon as practical and a copy shall be provided to the city.
The decision of the hearing officer is final.
   (K)   Destruction of certain dogs. The Police Chief and/or hearing officer
are authorized to order the destruction or other disposition of any dog, after
proper notice is given pursuant to division (J) above and upon a finding that:
      (1)   The dog has habitually destroyed property or habitually trespassed
in a damaging manner on property of persons other than the owner;
      (2)   The dog has been declared dangerous, the owner’s right to appeal
hereunder has been exhausted or expired, and the owner has failed to comply
with the provisions of this section;
      (3)   It is determined that the dog is infected with rabies;
      (4)   The dog inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on
public or private property without provocation;
      (5)   The dog inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private
property without provocation;
      (6)   The dog bit multiple human victims on public or private property in
the same attack without provocation;
      (7)   The dog bit a human on public or private property without
provocation in an attack where more than one dog participated in the attack; or
      (8)   The dog poses a danger to the public’s health, safety, or welfare.
In determining whether the dog poses a danger to the public’s health, safety,
or welfare, the following factors may be considered:
         (a)   The dog weighs more than 20 pounds;
         (b)   The strength of the dog, including jaw strength;
         (c)   The dog’s tolerance for pain;
         (d)   The dog’s tendency to refuse to terminate an attack;
         (e)   The dog’s propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals;
         (f)   The dog’s potential for unpredictable behavior;
         (g)   The dog’s aggressiveness; and
         (h)   The likelihood that a bite by the dog will result in serious
injury.
   (L)   Concealing of dogs. No person may harbor, hide, or conceal a dog that
the city has the authority to seize or that has been ordered into custody for
destruction or other proper disposition.
   (M)   Dog ownership prohibited.
      (1)   Except as provided below, a person shall not own a dog if the
person has been:
         (a)   Convicted of a third or subsequent violation of §
93.31(D), 5, or 6 or M.S. §§ 347.51, 347.515, or 347.52;
         (b)   Convicted of second degree manslaughter due to negligent or
intentional use of a dog under M.S. § 609.205 (4); or
         (c)   Convicted of gross misdemeanor harm caused by a dog under M.S. §
609.226, Subd. 1.
      (2)   Any person who owns a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog and is
found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this section or had owned
a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog but never achieved compliance with
this section may be prohibited from ownership or custody of another dog for a
period of five years after the original declaration. Any dog found to be in
violation shall be impounded until due process is completed, pursuant to
division (J) above.
      (3)   If any member of a household is prohibited from owning a dog in
divisions (M)(1) or (M)(2) above, unless specifically approved with or without
restrictions by the city, no person in the household is permitted to own a dog.
   (N)   Dog ownership prohibition review. Beginning three years after a
conviction under division (M) above that prohibits a person from owning a dog,
and annually thereafter, the person may request in writing to the Police Chief
that the city review the prohibition. The city may consider such facts as the
seriousness of the violation or violations that led to the prohibition, any
criminal convictions, or other facts that the city deems appropriate. The city
may rescind the prohibition entirely or rescind it with limitations. The city
also may establish conditions a person must meet before the prohibition is
rescinded, including, but not limited to, successfully completing dog training
or dog handling courses. If the city rescinds a person’s prohibition and the
person subsequently fails to comply with any limitations imposed by the city or
the person is convicted of any animal violation involving unprovoked bites or
dog attacks, the city may permanently prohibit the person from owning a dog in
this state.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014)
§ 93.33 LIMITATION OF QUANTITY OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, harbor, or have custody of more than four
dogs, cats, and certain animals which two can be dogs, as defined under §
93.28, in the aggregate which are over six months of age shall be kept or
harbored at any place in the city, except in a pet shop, animal hospital, or
commercial kennel, unless a permit has been issued pursuant to this section by
the Council. Any additional animals would require a special permit from the
city.
   (B)   No more than six chickens shall be maintained at any one residence or
premises. Hen chickens may be kept within the residential district. The keeping
of roosters is prohibited. Chickens shall not be raised or kept for fighting.
Cockfighting and dogfighting are prohibited.
      (1)   Permit application and hearing. Persons who wish to keep or harbor
more than the number of dogs or cats and certain animals as defined under §
93.28 permitted by this division (B)(1) may apply for a permit from the
Council. After the receipt of the permit application, and the fee as set forth
in section 185 of this Code, the Council shall conduct a public hearing
regarding the application considering each permit application on a case by ease
basis and consulting the city’s Police Department to determine whether or not
to conduct a public hearing. If the Council determines that a public hearing
will be held, a notice of the date, time, place, and purpose of the hearing
shall be mailed at least ten days before the date of the hearing to each owner
of property situated wholly or partly within 350 feet of the property to which
the application relates.
      (2)   Issuance of permit. After hearing the oral and written views of all
interested persons, the Council shall make its decision. The Council shall not
grant a permit unless it finds that keeping or harboring more than the allowed
number of dogs or cats on the applicant’s property:
         (a)   Will not be a nuisance; and
         (b)   Will not be detrimental to the public health and safety of the
applicant or other persons in the vicinity.
      (3)   Permit not transferable. No permit may be transferred to any person
or place by the person or from the place to whom and for which the permit was
granted. The permit shall be granted only for the animals described in the
application. No animals described in the application may be replaced by the
applicant without first obtaining a new permit from the Council.
   (C)   Conditions and restrictions.
      (1)   The Council may impose conditions and restrictions as it deems
necessary for the protection of the public interest and adjacent properties and
to ensure compliance with the requirements of this section and other applicable
provisions of this Code. Each permit issued pursuant to this section shall
remain in effect only so long as the conditions and restrictions imposed by the
Council are observed and not violated.
      (2)   No person shall conduct any business of selling, boarding,
commercial, breeding, or treating animals without obtaining a kennel license.
Kennel license shall be issued on an annual basis and shall be made for the
whole or unexpired portion of the year ending December 31 next following the
effective date of the license. The fee for the kennel license shall be provided
in § 185.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.34 CENSUS TAKING.
   The city may, at its option, and at such intervals, utilizing appropriate
notice to the public, that an employee suitable persons upon such terms and
conditions as it may see fit, to make a house-to-house census and issue
warnings to owners then and there to procure their rabies shots and licenses.
The city shall impose such additional charge for each license issued in the
course of such census as set forth in § 185.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014)
§ 93.35 CITY WIDE LEASH REGULATION.
   All dogs and cats shall, at all times while out of doors, (except on the
property of the owner or person having the control thereof) in the city, be on
leash or under the control of an electronic collar and the owner and/or person
in control thereof shall at all times have in possession tools or equipment
suitable for the sanitary pick-up, removal, and ultimate disposal in a sanitary
fashion of all animal fecal material. To not have such tools or equipment when
animals are on leash and out of doors, is a violation of this section.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014; Ord. passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.36 COMMERCIAL KENNEL.
   No person shall maintain a commercial or residential hobby kennel without
first having obtained a license pursuant to the provisions of this section.
Commercial kennels must comply with zoning regulations, and are not allowed in
B-1, R-1, and R-2 zoned districts.
   (A)   Kennel license application.
      (1)   The application for a commercial or hobby residential kennel
license or renewal thereof shall contain or have attached thereto, a detailed
plan and description of the premises and structures wherein the kennel is to be
operated, unless the application is for renewal of a previous license and no
change in the premises or structure has been made or is contemplated to be
made.
      (2)   In addition to the license required herein, the applicant for a
commercial kennel license must also secure a conditional use permit. Each
kennel license shall be posted conspicuously on the premises where said kennel
is located.
   (B)   Kennel license fee.
      (1)   The fee for a commercial kennel license shall be in the amount set
forth in § 185 of this Code. The license application shall state the name and
address of the kennel owner, the type of kennel, the location of the kennel,
and the number of animals proposed to be kept. The license to operate a kennel
shall be for one year and shall expire on December 31 of each year.
      (2)   Each application for a license shall include payment of a fee as
established by the City Council from time to time.
   (C)   Condition of kennel. A commercial kennel shall be kept at all times in
a clean, sanitary, and well-ventilated condition at all times, and shall be
open to inspection by a police officer of the city at all reasonable times. The
animals shall be reasonably restrained from annoying the neighborhood of the
general public.
   (D)   Outside runs prohibited. No commercial kennel shall provide outside
runs or penned areas designed for the confinement of animals outside of the
principal building.
   (E)   Revocation. Any kennel license may be revoked by the Council by reason
of any violation of this code, or by reason of the violation of any health or
nuisance ordinance, order, law, or regulation.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.37 CHICKENS WITHIN CITY LIMITS.
   (A)   Confinement. Every person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains, or
harbors hen chickens must keep them confined on the premises at all times in a
chicken coop or chicken run while in the city. Chickens are not allowed to be
located in any part of the home and/or garage.
   (B)   Chicken coops and chicken runs.
      (1)   Any chicken coop and run fencing must be consistent with building
and zoning codes.
      (2)   No chicken coop or run shall be constructed on any lot prior to the
time of construction of the principal building.
      (3)   Chicken coops and runs shall not be in the front or side yard.
      (4)   Any chicken coop or run shall be set back at least 50 feet from any
residential structure on any adjacent lots and ten feet from the property line.
      (5)   Any coop or run shall be screened from view with a solid fence or
landscaped buffer with a minimum height of four feet.
      (6)   All chicken coops must have a maximum size of ten square feet per
chicken and must not exceed six feet in total height. Fenced in chicken runs
must not exceed 20 square feet per chicken and fencing must not exceed six feet
in total height. Chicken runs may be enclosed with wood and/or woven wire
materials, and may allow chickens to contact the ground. Chicken runs must have
a protective overhead netting to keep the chickens separated from other
animals.
      (7)   Chicken coops must be elevated a minimum of 12 inches and a maximum
of 24 inches above grade to ensure circulation beneath the coop.
      (8)   Chicken grains and feed must be stored in rodent proof containers.
   (C)   Condition and inspection. No person who owns, controls, keeps,
maintains, or harbors hen chickens shall permit the premises where the hen
chickens are kept to be or remain in an unhealthy, unsanitary, or noxious
condition or to permit the premises to be in such condition that noxious odors
are carried to adjacent public or private property. Any chicken coop and
chicken run authorized under this chapter may be inspected at any reasonable
time by the city animal control officer or other agent of the city.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.38 ANIMAL FEES.
Animal Fees
Animal Fees
Animal abandonment                                     $50
Commercial kennel license                              $200
Dangerous and potentially dangerous dog annual license $250
Disposal fee                                           $100
Duplicate license                                      $5
Impounding                                             $100
Non-spayed                                             $20
Permit fee for application and public hearing          Cost + 10%
Spayed                                                 $10
 
(Ord. passed - -)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Unless stated otherwise, any person who violates a provision of
§
93.32 is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person who is convicted of a second or subsequent violation of
any provision of §
93.32(D), (E), or (F) is guilty of a gross misdemeanor.
      (3)   Any person who violates §
93.32(M), whether an owner or household member, is guilty of a gross
misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 8-11-2014)
CHAPTER 94: LOCAL IMPROVEMENTS AND SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
94.01   General policy
   
94.02   Assessment policies applicable to all improvements
   
94.03   Assessment units
   
94.04   Improvement classifications and procedure
   
94.05   Responsibilities for payment of improvements
   
94.06   Deferment of assessments
   
94.07   Partial prepayment
   
94.08   Certification of assessments
§ 94.01 GENERAL POLICY.
   When an improvement is of special benefit to properties in a definable area,
it is the intent of this chapter to levy special assessments on the benefitted
properties to finance such improvements. Improvement costs shall, whenever
possible, be assessed in full against the benefitted property. All special
assessment improvements shall be made in accordance with this chapter and the
requirements of M.S. Chapter 429 et seq., as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 94.01) (Ord. 206, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 94.02 ASSESSMENT POLICIES APPLICABLE TO ALL IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Improvements for construction of water distribution lines, sewage
lines, storm drainage, curb and gutter, street improvements, sidewalks,
lighting, or other assessment improvements may be undertaken upon City Council
initiation or petition of the affected property owners. The City Council shall,
by resolution, determine whether or not the petition has been signed by the
required percentage of owners of the property affected by such petition.
   (B)   Where an improvement is of special benefit to properties in a
definable area, it is the intent to levy special assessments on the benefitted
properties. Improvement costs shall, whenever possible, be assessed in full
against the benefitted property, thereby keeping the improvement costs
chargeable to the city to a minimum. The following general principles shall be
used as a basis of the city’s assessment policy:
      (1)   The project cost of an improvement shall be deemed to include the
costs of all necessary construction work required to accomplish the
improvement, plus engineering, legal, administrative, financing, rights-of-way,
and other contingent costs;
      (2)   Where the project cost of an improvement is not entirely
attributable to the need for service to the area served by the improvement, or
where unusual conditions beyond the control of the owners of the property in
the area served by the improvement would result in an inequitable distribution
of special assessments, the city, through the use of other funds, may pay such
city costs which, in the opinion of the City Council, represents the excess
cost not directly attributable to the area served;
      (3)   If financial assistance is received from the federal government,
from the State of Minnesota, or from any other source to defray a portion of
the costs of a given improvement, the aid will be used first to reduce the city
cost of the improvement. If the financial assistance received is greater than
the normal city cost, the remainder of the aid will be used to reduce the
special assessments against the benefitting properties, with such reduction to
be applied on a pro rata basis;
      (4)   The assessable cost of an improvement shall be defined as being
those costs which, in the opinion of the City Council, are attributable to the
need for service in the area served by the improvement. The assessable cost
shall be equal to the project cost of the current project as defined above,
minus city cost as defined above, minus other financial assistance credited as
above described;
      (5)   City-owned properties, including municipal building sites, parks,
and playgrounds, but not including public streets and alleys, shall be regarded
as being assessable on the same basis as if such property was privately owned;
      (6)   Assessments may be spread over such period of time as the Council
shall approve; and
      (7)   In the event the literal application of the provisions outlined
herein would result in an inequitable distribution of special assessments, the
City Council reserves the right to adjust the policy so as to achieve a more
equitable distribution.
(Prior Code, § 94.02) (Ord. 206, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 94.03 ASSESSMENT UNITS.
   Each lot or parcel shall be assessed on the basis of its share of the
appropriate assessable units. Assessable units shall be in terms of adjusted
frontage, area, or lot.
   (A)   Adjusted frontage shall be calculated by the following procedure and
shall be expressed to the nearest 0.1 (tenth) foot.
      (1)   For rectangular interior lots: the frontage shall be equal to the
dimension of the side of the lot abutting the improvement.
      (2)   For rectangular corner lots: the frontage shall be the legal
address side of the lot. The other side of the lot shall be considered the side
lot.
      (3)   For irregularly shaped, interior lots with four sides or less: the
frontage shall be equal to the average width of the lot.
      (4)   For lots having more than four apparent sides which could be
subdivided per city codes (L- shaped and the like), the adjusted front footage
shall be equal to the front of a normal rectangular lot with 150 feet of depth
and the same total area (area divided by 150) of irregular non-four-sided lot.
      (5)   For sewer and water improvements adjacent to corner or end lots:
the assessed footage of the lot shall be the lot length upon which the sewer or
water service is connected.
      (6)   Where frontage roads along highways are deemed of benefit to
commercial and industrial properties, the entire costs of any improvements on
such frontage roads shall be assessable to the adjacent properties, even if
only those properties on one side of such frontage roads are benefitted.
   (B)   AREA shall be defined as the gross area of the parcel or lot, which is
benefitted, in terms of square feet or acres. All property within district
boundaries is to be included. District boundaries shall be determined by the
Director of Public Works or the City Engineer.
   (C)   When the City Council determines that the assessable costs would be
more equitably distributed on a unit basis, the assessable unit may be the lot
(a uniform per lot assessment), an REC (residential equivalent connection), or
other equitable unit adopted by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 94.03) (Ord. 206, passed 4-14-1997; Ord. 225, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 94.04 IMPROVEMENT CLASSIFICATIONS AND PROCEDURE.
   Public improvements are classified into three categories: surface
improvements, subsurface improvements, and drainage improvements. The following
procedures shall affect the assessment of any improvement ordered by the
Council.
   (A)   Surface improvements. Surface improvements shall include grading and
base construction, curb and gutter, surfacing, resurfacing, ornamental street
lighting, and sidewalks.
      (1)   In all streets prior to street construction and surfacing or prior
to resurfacing, all utilities and utility service lines (including sanitary
sewers, water lines, and gas and electric service) shall be installed to serve
each known or assumed building location. No surface improvements to less than
both sides of a full block of street shall be approved except as necessary to
complete the improvement of a block, which has previously been partially
completed.
      (2)   The city pays for curb and gutter across intersections and alleys.
      (3)   The assessable unit to be used for all surface improvements, unless
otherwise specified by the Council, shall be the adjusted frontage of the
property. In the case of surface improvements to irregular shaped lots on a
cul-de-sac, the assessment unit shall be the lot and assessable costs shall be
spread on a per lot basis.
      (4)   Thirty percent of the cost of new or reconstructed sidewalks shall
be assessed against the benefitted property owners on the basis of a footage
charge. Interest rate and length of assessment will be determined by the City
Council.
      (5)   Costs for resurfacing or required overlays shall be assessed 30% to
the benefitting, abutting property owners and 70% of the costs will borne to
the city. The assessment will be on an adjusted frontage front foot basis. The
city shall not participate in any portion of a project other than the actual
bituminous overlay. The costs of any other material or any other project work
involved in an overlay project shall be borne by the abutting property owners.
      (6)   The city pays for street surface reconstruction across
intersections and alleys.
      (7)   Street surface costs for side lots are assessed at one-half the
unit rate of a front lot. The city pays for the one-half of the cost for a side
lot frontage. (25% to each side of the street for front lot situations,
therefore 2 x 25% = 50% assessed).
      (8)   Assessed curb and gutter lengths are actual constructed lengths
adjacent to individual lots. The curb length may be more or less than the
platted lot lengths due to curve or radii calculations.
      (9)   Residential property owners pay residential rate and commercial
property owners pay commercial rate when there is a minimum nine-ton street
surface area.
   (B)    Subsurface improvements. Subsurface improvements shall include water
distribution lines, sump pump lines, and sanitary sewer lines.
      (1)   Subsurface improvements shall be made to serve current projected
land use. All installations shall conform to the minimum standards therefor as
established by those state and/or federal agencies having jurisdiction over the
proposed installations. All installations shall also comply with the maximum
extent feasible, to such quasi-official, nationally recognized standards as
those of the American Insurance Association. Service lines to each known or
assumed building location shall be installed in conjunction with the
construction of the mains.
      (2)   Trunk sewers include lift stations, force mains, and oversized or
overly deep systems, which are designed as major collectors.
      (3)   Trunk water systems include towers, hydrants, valves, and necessary
over-sizing.
      (4)   Sanitary sewer lines, up to and including a maximum size of eight
inches, shall be assessed on a front footage basis to the benefitted
properties. The assessable cost shall be the entire improvement cost for such
lateral lines.
      (5)   Water distribution lines, up to and including a maximum size of
eight inches, shall be assessed on a front foot basis. Assessable costs for
lateral water distribution lines shall include valves, hydrants, and
distribution lines.
   (C)   Drainage improvements. Drainage improvements shall include all storm
sewers, ponding areas, ditches, ground water control systems, or other
installations for the control of storm water or ground water. Drainage
improvements shall be made to serve current and projected land use. All
improvements for carrying water shall provide protection based on a design
frequency established by the engineer or higher if requested by the benefitted
owners. Storage sites and ponding areas shall be designed to provide a
frequency of protection designated by the engineer, but in no case shall the
design allow damage to permanent structures at frequencies less than 50 years.
(Prior Code, § 94.04) (Ord. 206, passed 4-14-1997; Ord. 225, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 94.05 RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PAYMENT OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   The apportionment of the cost between benefitted property and the city at
large and the method of levying assessments prescribed in this chapter shall be
as follows:
   (A)   New streets: property owner pays 100%;
   (B)   Reconstructed streets: property owner pays 30% and city pays 70%;
   (C)   New curb and gutter: property owner pays 100%;
   (D)   Reconstructed curb and gutter: property owner pays 30% and city pays
70%;
   (E)   New storm sewer: city pays 100%;
   (F)   Reconstructed storm sewer: city pays 100%;
   (G)   New water main: property owner pays 100%;
   (H)   Reconstructed water main: city pays 70% and property owner pays 30%;
   (I)   New water service: property owner pays 100%;
   (J)   Reconstructed water service: property owner pays 100%;
   (K)   New sanitary sewer: property owner pays 100%;
   (L)   Reconstructed sanitary sewer: city pays 70% and property owner pays
30%;
   (M)   New sanitary service: property owner pays 100%; and
   (N)   Reconstructed sanitary service: property owner pays 100%.
(Prior Code, § 94.05) (Ord. 206, passed 4-14-1997; Ord. 225, passed 10-20-2003)
§ 94.06 DEFERMENT OF ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Deferment of special assessments outside of corporate limits. If the
city installs utility facilities which benefit property which lies outside the
corporate limits, that area and the allocable costs shall be included in the
original public hearing for the improvement. The city may attempt to negotiate
a contract with the property owner of the property lying outside the city which
will provide for payment to the city on the same basis as if the property were
within the city and to be assessed for the improvement as a prepayment upon
completion of the project. If such a contract cannot be executed, the city will
assume the temporary responsibility for payment of the cost allocable to the
property lying outside the city limits. In that event, the original principal
amount of the assessment, if it had been assessed, plus accumulated interest,
shall be increased annually by a percentage to be determined by Council up to a
maximum of 15 years for which no payment is made. At the time of annexation of
the property to the city, a subsequent public hearing may be held for that
property and an assessment roll prepared, adopted, and certified to the County
Auditor, payable at the same rate and terms except for the total amount as were
applicable to other property owners included in the original assessment. The
city shall reserve the right to delay the assessment of benefit for facilities
previously installed and to make such assessment at the same time it causes to
be constructed other public improvements on the property following its
annexation. When property lies outside the city limits, no physical connection
to the city’s utility or drainage system will be permitted until a utility
agreement and contract, including satisfaction of costs or assessments, is
executed.
   (B)   Deferment of special assessment for senior citizens.
      (1)   Criteria. In determining whether or not a senior citizen is
eligible for deferral of special assessment installment payments, the following
criteria are established.
         (a)   Senior citizens special assessment hardship deferral applies to
special assessments levied after the date of the adoption of this chapter.
         (b)   Senior citizens special assessment hardship deferral applies to
qualifying special assessments against all properties classified as homestead
pursuant to M.S. Chapter 273, as it may be amended from time to time, where one
or more of the owners of such property is 65 years of age or older and it would
create a hardship for the owner or owners of the property to pay the special
assessment installments as they become due.
         (c)   It shall be presumed that a hardship exists if:
            1.   The person is at or below the federal poverty level; and
            2.   All owners of the property verify, under oath, that they meet
the criteria for establishing a hardship by completing an application provided
by the city.
         (d)   In cases where exceptional and unusual circumstances exist, the
City Council may determine that a hardship exists despite the fact that the
minimum income requirements of this section are not met; such cases shall be
decided by the Council on a case by case basis.
      (2)   Interest. Interest shall be charged on any assessment deferred
pursuant to this chapter at a rate equal to the rate charged on other
assessments for the particular public improvement project the assessment is
financing.
   (C)   When deferred. The deferment shall be granted upon a certification by
the owner on a form prescribed by the County Assessor supplemented by the
Administrator to establish the qualification of the owner for such a deferment.
The application shall be made within 30 days after the adoption of the
assessment roll by the Council and shall be renewed each following year upon
the filing of a similar application not later than May 31. The Council shall
either grant or deny the deferment and, if it grants the deferment, it may
require the payment of the interest due each year. If the Council grants the
deferment, the Administrator shall notify the County Auditor and the County
Assessor who shall, in accordance with M.S. § 444.23, as it may be amended from
time to time, record a notice of the deferment with the register of deeds
setting forth the amount of the assessment.
   (D)   When deferment ends. The option to defer the payment of special
assessments shall terminate and all amounts accumulated, plus applicable
interest, shall become due upon the occurrence of any one of the following
events:
      (1)   The death of the property owner 65 years of age or older, providing
the surviving owner is otherwise not eligible for deferment;
      (2)   The sale, transfer, or subdivision of all or any part of the
property;
      (3)   Loss of homestead status on the property;
      (4)   Determination by the Council for any reason that there would be no
hardship to require immediate or partial payment;
      (5)   Failure to file a renewal application within the time prescribed by
this section; or
      (6)   At the request of the property owner.
   (E)   Procedure for termination. Upon the occurrence of one of the events
specified in this section, the Council shall terminate the deferment.
Thereupon, the Administrator shall notify the County Assessor and the County
Auditor of the termination, including the amounts accumulated on unpaid
installments plus applicable interest which shall become due and payable as a
result of the termination.
(Prior Code, § 94.06) (Ord. 206, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 94.07 PARTIAL PREPAYMENT.
   After the adoption by the Council of the assessment roll in any local
improvement proceeding, the owner of any property specially assessed in the
proceeding may, prior to the certification of the assessment or the first
installment to the County Auditor, pay to the Administrator any portion of the
assessment. The remaining unpaid balance shall be spread over the period of
time established by the Council for installment payment of the assessment.
(Prior Code, § 94.07) (Ord. 206, passed 4-14-1997)
§ 94.08 CERTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS.
   After the adoption of any special assessment by the Council, the
Administrator shall transmit a certified duplicate of the assessment roll with
each installment, including interest, set forth separately to the County
Auditor to be extended on the proper tax lists of the county.
(Prior Code, § 94.08) (Ord. 206, passed 4-14-1997)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
      
111.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING AND REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Licenses and permits
   
110.02   Fees
   
110.03   Duration of license
   
110.04   Transfers
   
110.05   Inspection
   
110.06   Duties of licensee
   
110.07   Suspension or revocation
Public Dances
   
110.20   Regulation of public dances
Theaters and Entertainment Establishments
   
110.35   Permit required
   
110.36   Application for license and term
   
110.37   Number of licenses
   
110.38   Fire precautions
   
110.39   Indecent show prohibited
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   General rule. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all
licenses and permits granted by the city shall be governed by the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (B)   Acts prohibited. No person shall conduct any activity or use any
property for which a license or permit is required by state or federal law or
this chapter without a currently valid license or permit for such activity or
use.
   (C)   Application. Every application for a license shall be made to the
Administrator on a form provided by the City Administrator. It shall be
accompanied by payment to the Administrator of the prescribed fee. If, after
investigation, the Administrator is satisfied that all requirements of law and
this code have been met, the Administrator shall present the application to the
Council for action, or, if the license or permit does not require Council
approval, the license or permit shall be issued.
   (D)   Bond. Where a bond is required for any license or permit, the bond
shall be a corporate surety bond executed on a form approved by the City
Attorney and shall be filed with the Administrator before the license or permit
is issued. Except where otherwise provided, a bond shall be in the amount of
$500, conditioned that the licensee or permittee shall comply with the
applicable code and laws pertaining to the licensed or permitted activity and
that the licensee or permittee will indemnify the city and save it harmless
from all loss or damage by reason of inadequate work performed by the licensee
or permittee or agent of the same, or by reason of accident caused by the
negligence of the licensee or permittee, agents or employees.
   (E)   Insurance.
      (1)   When a licensee or permittee is required to have in force a policy
of insurance, the policy shall be approved as to substance and form by the City
Attorney. The policy shall provide that it is noncancellable without a 15 days’
notice to the city, and the coverage shall be for the term of the license or
permit. Satisfactory evidence of coverage by insurance shall be filed with the
Administrator before the license or permit is issued. Each license or permit
shall terminate upon termination of the required insurance coverage.
      (2)   Unless otherwise provided, a required policy of liability insurance
shall provide for protection in at least the following amounts:
         (a)   For injuries, including death therefrom, sustained by any one
person: $100,000;
         (b)   For injuries, including death resulting therefrom, sustained by
two or more persons as the result of any one occurrence: $100,000 per
individual; and
         (c)   For property damage: $300,000.
(Prior Code, § 110.01)
§ 110.02 FEES.
   (A)   Fee established. License fees are in the amounts established in the
governing sections of this subchapter or as otherwise provided in this code.
The compilation of all fees is maintained for convenience and reference only.
The license and permit fees as set forth in the various sections of this
chapter are the official and controlling provisions.
   (B)   Prorated fees. License fees shall not be prorated unless otherwise
specified by this chapter or by law.
   (C)   Refunds. License fees shall not be refunded in whole or in part unless
otherwise specified by law.
(Prior Code, § 110.02)
§ 110.03 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise specified, a license shall be valid for a calendar year or
the part of the year for which it is issued and shall expire on December 31.
(Prior Code, § 110.03)
§ 110.04 TRANSFERS.
   No license issued under this code may be transferred to any other person.
Where a license relates to specific premises, the license shall not be changed
to another location without approval of the Council or other licensing
authority.
(Prior Code, § 110.04)
§ 110.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Authorized personnel. Any city official or employee having a duty to
perform with reference to a license under this chapter and any police officer
may inspect and examine any licensee, the business, or premises to enforce
compliance with applicable provisions of this code. Subject to the provisions
of division (B) of this section, enforcement officers may, at any reasonable
time, enter any licensed premises for which a license is required in order to
enforce compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Search warrants. If the licensee objects to the inspection of the
premises, the city official or employee charged with the duty of enforcing the
provisions of this chapter shall procure a valid search warrant before
conducting the inspection.
(Prior Code, § 110.05)
§ 110.06 DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   Compliance required. Every licensee and permittee shall have the
duties set forth in this section.
   (B)   Inspection. Every licensee and permittee shall permit, at reasonable
times, inspections of their business and examination of their books and records
by authorized officers or employees.
   (C)   Compliance with law. Every licensee or permittee shall comply with
laws, codes, and regulations applicable to the licensed business, activity, or
property.
   (D)   Display of license. Every licensee or permittee shall display the
license, permit, or other insignia given as evidence of the license or permit
in a conspicuous place on the premises, vehicle, or device to which the license
relates. If the license is not so related, the license shall be carried on the
licensee’s person whenever the licensee is carrying on the licensed activity.
   (E)   Unlawful disposition. The license or license insignia shall not be
given or lent to any other person by the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 110.06)
§ 110.07 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The Council may suspend for a period not exceeding 60 days or revoke any
license or permit for violation of any provision of law, code, or regulation
applicable to the licensed or permitted activity or property. Except where
mandatory revocation is provided by law without notice and hearing, and except
where suspension may be made without hearing, the holder of the license or
permit shall be granted a hearing upon at least ten days’ notice before
revocation or suspension is ordered. The notice shall state the time and place
of the hearing and the nature of the charges against the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 110.07)
PUBLIC DANCES
§ 110.20 REGULATION OF PUBLIC DANCES.
   (A)   Regulation of public dances. All public dances held in this city shall
be conducted in accordance with the provisions of this section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance where the general public may participate, whether
or not a charge for admission for dancing is made.
      PUBLIC DANCING PLACE. Any room or space or other area, whether indoors or
outside, which is open to the general public for the purpose of participating
in public dancing.
   (C)   Permit. No person shall conduct a public dance in this city unless a
permit has been obtained from the City Administrator prior to the holding of
the dance. The fees for a permit shall be as established by resolution of the
Council as it may be amended from time to time. In addition to this fee, the
applicant shall pay the cost to the city of providing a police officer or
officers to be present at the dance. The City Council shall establish criteria
for determining the number of police officers required to be present at any
dance. No permit shall be issued until the fee and the cost of providing for
the police officer or officers has been paid.
   (D)   Application. Any person desiring a permit to hold a public dance in
this city shall submit an application for a permit on the form provided by the
City Administrator submitted to the City Administrator at least ten days before
the date of the proposed dance. The application shall set forth the name and
address of the applicant who shall be the person responsible for conducting the
public dance and any business, committee, or organization sponsoring the dance,
the place where the dance is to be held, the date of the dance and the time of
its beginning and end. Proof of all insurance required by this ordinance shall
be submitted with the application and no permit shall be issued until proof of
insurance has been received. A request for any use of a city building or other
city property shall be included with the permit application and no permit shall
be issued until the fees for the use of the city building or other city
property have also been paid.
   (E)   Insurance. All insurance policies required for the event, including
any insurance required by law for the sale of alcoholic beverages, shall list
the city as a named insured and provide a provision to defend, indemnify, and
hold harmless the city and any of its employees from any claims arising from
the event.
   (F)   Location. The applicant shall make sure that adequate parking is
available for the persons wishing to attend the dance and make sure that the
location is safe and accessible. This information shall also be provided to the
City Administrator before a permit shall be issued.
   (G)   Permit to be posted. When a permit is issued, the holder of the permit
shall post the permit in a prominent location on the premises on which the
dance is to be held during the time the dance is occurring. The applicant shall
be present at all times while the dance is occurring.
   (H)   Liquor license required. No person shall give, hold, conduct, or
permit any public dance where liquor will be served, as defined in M.S. Chapter
340A, as it may be amended from time to time, without obtaining a license from
the city.
   (I)   Police officer presence. No public dance shall occur without at least
one police officer, or more if more are required under the criteria established
by the City Council, present at the public dancing place during the duration of
the dance and after the dance, until all of the participants have left the
public dancing place.
   (J)   Hours. No public dance shall occur between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
12:00 noon.
   (K)   Minors denied admission. No person under the age of 21 shall be
allowed to be present by the permit holder or any police officer at a public
dance where alcohol is sold or consumed, unless accompanied by a parent or
guardian.
   (L)   Certain behavior prohibited. No person present at any public dance
shall engage in any disorderly conduct as defined by M.S. § 609.72, as it may
be amended from time to time, and any disorderly person shall be immediately
removed from the dance by the police officer present at the public dancing
place. Should a substantial number of persons at the public dance engage in
disorderly conduct, the police officer present shall terminate the dance and
remove all persons from the public dancing place.
   (M)   Lighting. In order to protect the safety of persons attending a public
dance, public dancing places shall be adequately illuminated and dancing
therein while lights are extinguished, dimmed, or turned low so as to give
inadequate or imperfect illumination is hereby prohibited. All exit areas shall
be illuminated at all times during the public dance with light having intensity
of not less than one footcandle at floor level. Illumination of less than 0.5
footcandles in any area where dancing is occurring, permitted, or encouraged is
prohibited.
   (N)   Noise. All public dances shall be subject to the provisions of this
code regulating noise.
(Prior Code, § 110.20) Penalty, see §
110.99
THEATERS AND ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 110.35 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or entity shall operate a moving picture show or theater or show
without a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 110.35) (Ord. 198, passed 9-11-1995) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.36 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE AND TERM.
   (A)   Application for such license shall specify the nature of the
performances, the name of the owner, the location of the building, the number
of exits, seating capacity of building, and nature of fire protection.
   (B)   The license shall be for a term of one year from the date the city
approves the issuance of the license. The fee for such license shall be in an
amount established by Council resolution.
(Prior Code, § 110.36) (Ord. 198, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 110.37 NUMBER OF LICENSES.
   The number of licenses shall be limited and regulated by the number of
inhabitants of the city, as determined by the last state or federal census
thereof, so that there shall not be more than one license granted to every
5,000 inhabitants of the city, or fraction thereof.
(Prior Code, § 110.37) (Ord. 198, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 110.38 FIRE PRECAUTIONS.
   The licensee shall cause all exits to be so constructed as to allow the
doors of same to open outwards. All buildings in which licenses are granted
shall be provided with fire extinguishers, and there shall be maintained over
every exit a red incandescent light as well as a sign marked “Exit”. All rooms
in which moving picture machines are operated shall be so constructed of
incombustible material as to render the same absolutely fireproof.
(Prior Code, § 110.38) (Ord. 198, passed 9-11-1995)
§ 110.39 INDECENT SHOW PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The licensees shall conduct, maintain, and operate their place of
business and performances in an orderly manner and shall not allow the
exhibition of any lewd, immoral, nude, strip bars, strip joints, or any
indecent performances, acts, or moving pictures. No such actions or behavior
shall be contrary to the community standards of decency of the city.
   (B)   No entertainment on a licensed premises shall contain:
      (1)   The performance of acts or simulated acts of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any sexual
acts which are prohibited by law;
      (2)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing, or fondling of the
breasts, buttocks, anus, or genitals;
      (3)   The actual or simulated displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva,
or genitals; or
      (4)   The performance of any nude or erotic dancing or display of nudity
by either employees of the licensed premises or people under the direction of
the licensee, people attending the licensed premises, or patrons or customers
of the licensed premises.
(Prior Code, § 110.39) (Ord. 198, passed 9-11-1995; Ord. 219, passed 11-19-
2001) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any permit holder violating any of the provisions of §
110.20 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and their public dance permit is
suspended immediately at the time of any arrest or citation for violating §
110.20.
(Prior Code, § 110.20)
   (C)   Licensees are responsible for the orderly and proper behavior of
people in the licensee’s establishment. Any licensee who allows any person to
act in such a way as to violate §§
110.35 to
110.39 shall be punished as misdemeanor crime and shall cause his or her
license to be void. Furthermore, any person who engages in any action or
behavior described in §§
110.35 to
110.39 is guilty of a misdemeanor crime. Once a licensee has violated §§
110.35 to
110.39 and continues to operate his or her establishment after the licensee has
been voided, is guilty of a misdemeanor. Each act of violation constitutes a
separate offense. For instance, each day a violation of §§
110.35 to
110.39 occurs constitutes a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 110.40)
(Ord. 198, passed 9-11-1995; Ord. 219, passed 11-19-2001)
CHAPTER 111: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Exceptions to definitions
   
111.03   Licensing; exemptions
   
111.04   License ineligibility
   
111.05   License suspension and revocation
   
111.06   License transferability
   
111.07   Prohibited activities
   
111.08   Exclusion by placard
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of offering for sale, displaying or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise, or other personnel property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
HAWKER.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership, or association. As applied to groups, organizations, corporations,
partnerships, and associations, the term shall include each member, officer,
partner, associate, agent, or employee.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the City Hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as regular business days.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place, for the
purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares, products,
merchandise, other personal property or services of which he or she may be
carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog or by
other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later time.
The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the scope of
this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to obtain or
attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the same as
the term CANVASSER.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for
more than 14 consecutive days.
(Prior Code, § 111.01)
§ 111.02 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of the requirements of this chapter, the terms
peddler, solicitor, and transient merchant shall not apply to any person
selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods, wares, products,
merchandise, or other personal property to a retailer of the items being sold
by the wholesaler. The terms also shall not apply to any person who makes
initial contacts with other people for the purpose of establishing or trying to
establish a regular customer delivery route for the delivery of perishable food
and dairy products such as baked goods and milk, nor shall they apply to any
person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products to the customers
on his or her established regular delivery route.
   (B)   In addition, persons conducting the type of sales commonly known as
garage sales, rummage sales, or estate sales, as well as those persons
participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or flea market, shall be
exempt from the definitions of peddlers, solicitors, and transient merchants,
as shall be anyone conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer, or
any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale. Exemption from the
definitions for the scope of this chapter shall not excuse any person from
complying with any other applicable statutory provision or local ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 111.02)
§ 111.03 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
transient merchant within the city limits without first having obtained the
appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Chapter 329, as it may
be amended from time to time, or any license that the county may issue
licensing peddlers and solicitors.
   (B)   City license required. Except as otherwise provided for by this
chapter, no person shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient
merchant without first having obtained a license from the city.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business. Application for a
license shall be made on a form approved by the City Council and available from
the office of the City Administrator. All applications shall be signed by the
applicant. All applications shall include the following information:
      (1)   Applicant’s full legal name;
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed,
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business (if any);
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city (maximum 14 consecutive days);
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any requested county license;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
      (19)   The applicant’s driver’s license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information, and vehicle
identification number for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business and a description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in an ordinance establishing fees and
charges, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Administrator, within two regular business days, must
determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to be
complete only if all required information is provided. If the City
Administrator determines that the application is incomplete, the City
Administrator must inform the applicant of the required necessary information
that is missing. If the application is complete, the City Administrator must
order any investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the
information provided with the application. Within ten regular business days of
receiving a complete application, the City Administrator must issue the license
unless there exist grounds for denying the license under §
111.04, in which case the Administrator must deny the license. If the City
Administrator denies the license, the applicant must be notified in writing of
the decision, the reason for denial, and of the applicant’s right to appeal the
denial by requesting, within 20 days of receiving notice of rejection, a public
hearing before the City Council. The City Council shall hear the appeal within
20 days of the date of the request. The decision of the City Council following
the public hearing can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of
Appeals for a Writ of Certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted under
this chapter shall be valid only during the time period indicated on the
license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that person’s
state or federal constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech, press,
religion, and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the person’s
exercise of constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
      (3)   Professional fundraisers working on behalf of an otherwise exempt
person or group shall not be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 111.03) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person’s
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in an
honest and legal manner. Those violations shall include, but not be limited to,
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business practices, and
any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another person;
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or
transient merchant; and
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Attorney General’s Office, or other similar business or consumer
rights office or agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints
filed against the applicant within the preceding five years.
(Prior Code, § 111.04)
§ 111.05 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or incorrect statements on the
application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made during the
course of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Conviction of any offense for which granting of a license could
have been denied under §
111.04; and
      (4)   Violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C)
above, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If no
request for a hearing is received by the City Administrator within ten regular
business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed with
the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service shall
be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail. If a
public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall be
scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this chapter, the City Council may
immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) of this section.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
(Prior Code, § 111.05) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
(Prior Code, § 111.06) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant shall conduct business in any
of the following manners:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety, and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person; or
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conduct business in a manner a reasonable person would find obscene,
threatening, intimidating, or abusive.
(Prior Code, § 111.07) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.08 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   No peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant, unless invited to do so by the
property owner or tenant, shall enter the property of another for the purpose
of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant when the
property is marked with a sign or placard at least four inches long and four
inches wide with print of at least 48 point in size stating “No Peddlers,
Solicitors, or Transient Merchants”, or “Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient
Merchants Prohibited”, or other comparable statement. No person other than the
property owner or tenant shall remove, deface, or otherwise tamper with any
sign or placard under this section.
(Prior Code, § 111.08) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
112.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
112.05   Consumption in public places
Licensing
   
112.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
112.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
112.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
112.23   License fees; pro rata
   
122.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
112.25   Application for license
   
112.26   Description of premises
   
112.27   Applications for renewal
   
112.28   Transfer of license
   
112.29   Investigation
   
112.30   Hearing and issuance
   
112.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
112.32   Conditions of license
   
112.33   Hours and days of sale
   
112.34   Minors on premises
   
112.35   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
112.36   Suspension and revocation
 
   
112.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General Offenses, see
Ch. 130
   Health and Safety; Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this Chapter as if set out in full. It is the intention of
the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Chapter 340A, as may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if
they had been in existence at the time this chapter is adopted.
(Prior Code, § 112.01)
§ 112.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 112.02)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter.
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
“intoxicating” or “3.2% malt”, includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt
liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a RESTAURANT as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a “small establishment”, “medium establishment”, or
“large establishment” as defined in M.S. § 157.16, Subd. 3d, as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is
heated and served, shall not be considered to be a RESTAURANT for purposes of
this chapter unless it meets the definitions of “small establishment”, “medium
establishment”, or “large establishment”.
(Prior Code, § 112.03)
§ 112.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non- transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C)   A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2% malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
112.99(B).
(Prior Code, § 112.04) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in a public
park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot or alley, or in any public
place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
chapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, or where
the consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted. Consumption of
intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor is allowed in any of the city parks by
a permit obtained from the city only.
(Prior Code, § 112.05) (Ord. 224, passed 9-8-2003) Penalty, see §
112.99
LICENSING
§ 112.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this chapter is
limited to the number of licenses which were issued as of the effective date of
this chapter, even if a larger number of licenses are authorized by law or
election. The Council, in its sound discretion, may provide by ordinance that a
larger number of licenses may be issued up to the number of licenses authorized
by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a larger
number of licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a referendum
held under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, Subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger number of
licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance determines that
any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not required to issue
the full number of licenses that it has available.
(Prior Code, § 112.20)
§ 112.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 112.21)
§ 112.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council of a city that does not have a municipal liquor store is
authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to the number
specified in §
112.20:
   (A)   3.2% malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be issued only to
restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments used
exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks;
   (B)   3.2% malt liquor off-sale license;
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization;
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued only to
exclusive liquor stores or drug stores that have an off-sale license which was
first issued on or before May 1, 1994. The fee for an off- sale intoxicating
liquor license established by the Council under §
112.23 shall not exceed $100 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S.
§ 340A.408, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time;
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this chapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
clubs or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and exclusive liquor
stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of the Commissioner
of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the Council under §
112.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 2b,
as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may, in its sound
discretion, authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor
off the licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4b, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Council may, in its sound discretion, authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4a, as it may be amended from time to
time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor
to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being
held on the premises;
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, only after authorization
to do so by voter approval at a general or special election as provided by M.S.
§ 340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time. Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant as defined in §
112.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
112.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3b, as it may be amended from time to time;
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses if the city
has a population less than 10,000;
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the Commissioner of Public Safety, which may be issued only in connection with
a social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least three years. No license shall be for
longer than four consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12
days worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year;
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25 guests at
one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may be
amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
112.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.401, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The fee for
an on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of §
112.23 shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on- sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor
with a content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license;
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a
social activity in the city sponsored by the organization; and
   (K)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of §
112.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. §
340A.414, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Prior Code, § 112.22)
§ 112.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time by Council resolution the
fee for any of the liquor licenses it is authorized to issue. The license fee
may not exceed the cost of issuing the license and other costs directly related
to the enforcement of the liquor laws and this chapter. No liquor license fee
shall be increased without providing mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed
increase to all affected licensees at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Prior Code, § 112.23)
§ 112.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council, in its sound discretion, may either grant or deny the
application for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No
applicant has a right to a license under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.24)
§ 112.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility. Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
(Prior Code, § 112.25) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
(Prior Code, § 112.26)
§ 112.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 90 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
(Prior Code, § 112.27)
§ 112.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 112.28) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. 
      (1)   On an initial application for a license, on an application for
transfer of a license and, in the sound discretion of the Council that it is in
the public interest to do so, on an application for renewal of a license, the
city shall conduct a preliminary background and financial investigation of the
applicant or it may contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the
investigation.
      (2)   The applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee
of $500 which shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the
preliminary investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be
returned to the applicant.
      (3)   The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. 
      (1)   If the results of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound
discretion of the Council, a comprehensive background and financial
investigation, the Council may either conduct the investigation itself or
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation.
      (2)   The investigation fee for this comprehensive background and
financial investigation to be paid by the applicant shall be $500, less any
amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation is to be
conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any amount paid for the initial
investigation, if the investigation is required outside the state. The unused
balance of the fee shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the
application is denied. The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation
and the amount actually expended on the investigation shall not be refundable
in the event the application is denied.
      (3)   The results of the comprehensive investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
(Prior Code, § 112.29)
§ 112.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and
not investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license.
   (B)   After the investigation and hearing, the Council shall, in its sound
discretion, grant or deny the application. No license shall become effective
until the proof of financial security has been approved by the Commissioner of
Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 112.30)
§ 112.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. If the applicant is a corporation, all of the shareholders shall be
residents of the state. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to
any license existing on the effective date of this chapter or to the renewal of
an existing license.
   (F)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to the
closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
(Prior Code, § 112.31) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 90 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an “on-sale” license shall receive
training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training
shall be provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training
shall be provided by the licensee.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
(Prior Code, § 112.32) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Prior Code, § 112.33) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing services
in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel, or other multi-purpose
building serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt
liquor are sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor
is not sold.
(Prior Code, § 112.34) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.35 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
(Prior Code, § 112.35) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.36 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as it may be amended from time to time. The Council may
act as the hearing body under that Act, or it may contract with the Office of
Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any
rules promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, or
violation of §
112.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period, at least
one day suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be
imposed;
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period, at least
three consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed;
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period, at least
seven consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed; and
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Administrator, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within ten
days. Any suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the Council
determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this
chapter have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of §
112.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 112.36) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Chapter
340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any rules promulgated under
that chapter as they may be amended from time to time, is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of
this chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in
order for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the
Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as it may be amended
from time to time, is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the
Council shall hold a hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty
and hear any person who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds
for suspension or revocation of the license. The following is the minimum
schedule of presumptive civil penalties which must be imposed in addition to
any suspension unless the license is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any three-year period: $500;
      (2)   For the second violation within any three-year period: $1,000; and
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period: $2,000.
   (C)   The term VIOLATION as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it
may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as
they may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be
determined on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding three-
year period. Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for
which revocation is imposed.
(Prior Code, § 112.99)
CHAPTER 113: TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Business license required
   
113.04   Personal service license
   
113.05   License fee
   
113.06   Investigation fee
   
113.07   Granting of license
   
113.08   Persons ineligible for license
   
113.09   Places ineligible for license
   
113.10   Conditions of license
   
113.11   Health and sanitation requirements
   
113.12   Hindrance
   
113.13   Conflict of provisions
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate the business of tattooing and/or
body piercing in order to protect the general health, safety, and welfare of
the community.
   (A)   The City Council finds that the experience of other cities indicates
that there is a connection between tattooing/body piercing and hepatitis and
other health problems.
   (B)   The City Council finds that stringent regulations governing tattooing
and body piercing can minimize the hepatitis and disease risk, and therefore
protect the general health, safety, and welfare of the community.
   (C)   It is not the intent to prohibit tattoo and/or body piercing
establishments from having a reasonable opportunity to locate in the city.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BODY PIERCING. Penetrating or making a hole in or through the human body to
place jewelry or objects of metal, plastic, wood, bone, or other foreign
material on an area for cosmetic purposes.
   BRANDING. The use of heat, cold, or any chemical compound to imprint
permanent markings on human skin by any means other than tattooing.
   CLEAN. The absence of dirt, grease, rubbish, garbage, and other offensive,
unsightly, or extraneous matter.
   GOOD REPAIR. Free of corrosion, breaks, cracks, chips, pitting, excessive
wear and tear, leaks, obstructions, and similar defects so as to constitute a
sanitary, workable, and sound condition.
   ISSUING AUTHORITY. The City Administrator.
   MINOR. A person under the age of 18.
   OPERATOR. Any person who performs or practices the art of tattooing and/or
body piercing on another person in connection with the operation of a tattoo
and/or body piercing establishment and receives compensation from the owner of
the business or its patrons.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, company, corporation, or association that owns
an establishment where tattooing and/or body piercing is performed.
   SCARIFICATION. The cutting or tearing of human skin for the purpose of
creating a permanent mark or design on the skin.
   TATTOO, TATTOOING. The marking of the skin of a person by insertion of
permanent colors by introducing them through puncture of the skin.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 113.03 BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, partnership, or corporation shall operate any establishment
where tattooing and/or body piercing is practiced, nor engage in the practice
of tattooing and/or body piercing without being licensed under this chapter.
Jewelry stores, beauty shops, and accessory stores that exclusively provide ear
piercing services using piercing guns shall be exempt from this license
agreement.
   (B)   The application for a tattooing and/or body piercing establishment
business license shall be submitted on a form provide by the city and shall
include:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual, the name, residence, phone
number, and birth date of the applicant. If the applicant is a partnership, the
name, residence, phone number, and birth date of each general and limited
partner. If the applicant is a corporation, the names, residences, phone
numbers, and birth dates of all those persons holding more than 5% of the
issued and outstanding stock of the corporation;
      (2)   The name, address, phone number, and birth date of the manager of
such establishment, if different from the owners;
      (3)   The address and legal description of the premises where the tattoo
and/or body piercing establishment is to be located;
      (4)   A statement detailing any conviction relating to tattooing and/or
body piercing or the operation of a tattoo and/or body piercing establishment
by the applicant or manager and whether or not the applicant or manager has
ever applied for or held a license to operate a similar type of business in
other communities. In the case of a corporation, a statement detailing any
felony convictions by the owners of more than five 5% of the issued and
outstanding stock of the corporation and whether or not those owners have ever
applied for or held a license to operate a similar type of business in other
communities;
      (5)   The activities and types of businesses to be conducted;
      (6)   The hours of operation;
      (7)   The provisions made to restrict access by minors;
      (8)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations
and activities;
      (9)   Whether the applicant has previously been denied a license of this
type by any other government unit;
      (10)   The names, street addresses, and business addresses of three
residents of Renville, Yellow Medicine, Chippewa, Kandiyohi, Meeker, McLeod,
Redwood, Nicollet, or Sibley counties who are of good moral character and who
are not related to the applicant and not holding any ownership in the premises
or business, who may be referred to as to the applicant’s character;
      (11)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid,
the years and amounts that are unpaid; and
      (12)   All applications for a license under this chapter shall be signed
and sworn to. If the application is that of a natural person, it shall be
signed and sworn to by such person; if that of a corporation, by an officer
thereof; if that of a partnership, by one of the general partners; and if that
of an unincorporated association, by the manager or managing officer thereof.
Any falsification on a license application shall result in the denial of a
license. All applications shall be referred to the issuing authority for
verification and investigation of facts set forth in the application, including
any necessary criminal background checks to assure compliance with this
chapter. The application shall be issued or denied by the issuing authority in
accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 113.04 PERSONAL SERVICE LICENSE.
   (A)   No operator shall perform tattoo and/or body piercing services within
the city without being licensed as provided in this section. Any person
desiring a personal service license shall file a written application on a form
provided by the city.
   (B)   The application shall include the following information:
      (1)   The business address and all telephone numbers where the service is
to be practiced or based;
      (2)   The name, birth date, complete home address, and telephone number
of the applicant;
      (3)   The tattoo and/or body piercing business history and experience,
including, but not limited to, whether or not the applicant, in previously
operating in this or another city or state under license or permit, has had
such license or permit denied, revoked, or suspended and the reason therefor,
and the business activities or occupations subsequent to such action of denial,
suspension, or revocation;
      (4)   All criminal convictions other than misdemeanor traffic violations,
fully disclosing the jurisdiction in which convicted or arrested and the
circumstances thereof; and
      (5)   All applications for a license under this chapter shall be signed
and sworn to by the applicant. Any falsification on a license application shall
result in the denial of a license.
   (C)   All applications for a license shall be referred to the issuing
authority for verification and investigation of facts set forth in the
application, including any necessary criminal background checks to assure
compliance with this chapter. The application shall be issued or denied by the
issuing authority in accordance with this chapter.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 113.05 LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   The annual license fee is set by City Council resolution.
   (B)   Each application for a license shall be submitted to the City
Administrator and payment made to the city. Each application for a license
shall be accompanied by payment in full of the required license fee. Upon
rejection of any application for a license, the applicant may be refunded a
portion of the license fee in accordance with the fee resolution, except where
rejection is for a willful misstatement in the license application.
   (C)   All licensing shall expire on the last day of December of each year.
Each license shall be issued for a period of one year, except that if a portion
of the license year has elapsed when application is made, a license may be
issued for the remainder of the year for a prorated fee. In computing such fee,
any unexpired fraction of a month shall be counted as one month.
   (D)   Once a license has been granted, no part of the fee paid by any
licensee shall be refunded, except that a prorated portion of the fee shall be
refunded in the event of the complete closure of the business and cessation of
business activities for any of the following reasons and upon application to
the City Administrator within 30 days from the happenings of the event,
provided that such event occurs more than 30 days before the expiration of the
license:
      (1)   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
      (2)   The licensee’s illness;
      (3)   The licensee’s death; or
      (4)   A change in the legal status making it unlawful for licensed
business to continue.
   (E)   Each application shall contain a provision on the application
indicating that any withholding of information or the providing of false or
misleading of information will be grounds for denial or revocation of a
license. Any changes in the information provided on the application or provided
during the investigation shall be brought to the attention of the City
Administrator by the applicant or licensee. If said changes take place during
the investigation, said data shall be provided to the Police Chief or the City
Administrator in writing.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 113.06 INVESTIGATION FEE.
   (A)   At the time of the original application for a license, the applicant
shall deposit the investigation fee set by the City Council resolution.
   (B)   If, after such investigation, it appears that the applicant and the
place proposed for the business are eligible for a license under the criteria
set forth in this section, then the license shall be issued by the City Council
within 30 days after the investigation is completed. Otherwise, the license
shall be denied.
   (C)   Each license shall be issued to the applicant only and shall not be
transferable to another holder. Each license shall be issued only for the
premises described in the application. No license may be transferred to another
premises without the approval of the City Council. If the licensee is a
partnership or a corporation, a change in the identity of any of the principals
of the partnership or corporation shall be deemed a transfer of the license.
Any tattoo and/or body piercing establishment existing at the adoption of this
chapter shall be required to obtain an annual license.
   (D)   If the license is denied, the applicant may request a hearing before
the City Council by filing a written request therefor with the City
Administrator within 15 days after the applicant has received written notice of
denial.
      (1)   If the license application is denied by the City Council after a
hearing, the applicant may appeal the decision to the appropriate court of
competent jurisdiction.
      (2)   If a tattoo and/or body piercing establishment is lawfully in
existence at the time of the adoption of this chapter the tattoo and/or body
piercing establishment may continue in business until the court action is
completed. Otherwise, the applicant may not commence doing business until the
judicial action has been finally resolved.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 113.07 GRANTING OF LICENSE.
   The issuing authority shall complete his or her investigation within 30 days
after the City Administrator received a complete application and all license
and investigation fees.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 113.08 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license under this chapter shall be issued to an applicant who is a
natural person; general or managing partner of a partnership; or manager,
proprietor, or agent of a corporation or other organization if such applicant:
   (A)   Is a minor at the time the application is filed;
   (B)   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 2 and has not shown competent
evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties
of the licensed occupation as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03. Subd. 3;
   (C)   Who is overdue or whose spouse is overdue in his or her payment of
city, county, or state taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against them
or imposed upon them;
   (D)   Who has been denied a license by the city or any other Minnesota
municipal corporation to operate a tattoo and/or body piercing establishment or
whose license has been suspended or revoked within the proceeding 12 months, or
who is residing with any such person;
   (E)   Who has not paid the license and investigation fees required by this
chapter; or
   (F)   Is not of good moral character or repute.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 113.09 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any property
on which taxes, assessments, or other financial claims of the state, county,
school district, or city are due, delinquent, or unpaid. In the event a suit
has been commenced under M.S. §§ 278.01 to 278.03, questioning the amount or
validity of taxes, the City Council may on application waive strict compliance
with this provision; no waiver may be granted, however, for taxes or any
portion thereof which remain unpaid for a period exceeding one year after
becoming due.
   (B)   No license shall be granted or renewed if the property does not comply
with the city zoning ordinance 151 or does not qualify as a legal nonconforming
use for tattooing and/or body piercing establishments.
   (C)   Premises licensed for alcoholic beverages. No license shall be granted
or renewed if the premises is licensed for the furnishing of alcoholic
beverages or is an adult establishment pursuant to ordinance 112.
   (D)   No license shall be granted if the premises is within 300 feet of a
church, school, day care center, hospital, on-sale liquor establishment,
halfway house, currency exchange operation, theatre, residence, pawnshop,
secondhand goods dealer, or massage parlor.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 113.10 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   Every license shall be granted subject to the following conditions and all
other provisions of this chapter and of any applicable sections of the city
code, the city zoning ordinances, the Building Code, the Fire Code, and the
city’s and state’s health ordinance.
   (A)   No person shall tattoo or pierce any person under the age of 18 except
in the presence of, and with the written permission of, the parent or legal
guardian of such minor. The consent must include both the custodial and non-
custodial parents, where applicable. Any person licensed under this chapter
shall conspicuously post a sign in the establishment that a person under the
age of 18 is prohibited without the presence of and written permission of the
parent or legal guardian. Appropriate identification of the parent or guardian
and minor shall be provided.
   (B)   The license granted under this chapter is for the owner and the
premises or operator named on the approved license application. No transfer of
a license shall be permitted from place-to-place or from person-to-person
without first complying with the requirements of an original application,
except in the case in which an existing non-corporate license is incorporated
and incorporation does not affect the ownership, control, and interest of the
existing licensed establishment.
   (C)   All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a conspicuous
place at all times.
   (D)   A license under this chapter shall not open for business for tattooing
and/or body piercing before 7:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m.
   (E)   The tattoo and/or body piercing establishment license is only
effective for the compact and contiguous space specified in the approved
license application. If the licensed premises is enlarged, altered, or
extended, the licensee shall inform the issuing authority. No person shall
engage in the practice of tattooing and/or body piercing at any place other
than the place or location named or described in the application and license. A
separate room shall be required for body piercing and tattooing services. The
applicant shall submit a drawing to scale of the tattooing and/or body piercing
facilities.
   (F)   No person shall solicit business or offer to perform tattooing and/or
body piercing services while under license suspension or revocation by the
city.
   (G)   The licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of the business
being operated and shall at all times maintain conditions of order.
   (H)   The licensee shall provide to the issuing authority a list of
operators who perform tattooing and/or body piercing at the licensed
establishment and shall verify that each operator has received a copy of Health
and Safety Requirements and Sanctions for License Violations as appear in this
chapter.
   (I)   All licensees shall have at all times a valid certificate of insurance
issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota indicating that the licenses is currently covered in the tattoo and/
or body piercing business by a liability insurance policy.
      (1)   The minimum limits of coverage for such insurance shall be:
         (a)   Each claim, at least $200,000; and
         (b)   Each group of claims, at least $500,000.
      (2)   Such insurance shall be kept in force during the term of the
license and shall provide for notification to the city prior to termination or
cancellation. A certificate of insurance shall be filled with the city.
   (J)   Inspection regulations include the following.
      (1)   City initiated. The issuing authority or designated health
professionals shall, at a minimum, conduct one randomly scheduled inspection of
each licensed facility each year to determine compliance with city
requirements.
      (2)   Compliance certification. A health professional who is retained by
the licensed operator acceptable to the issuing authority shall inspect the
licensed premises in the month of November of each calendar year. Said
inspection is to determine compliance with city requirements and a written
report documenting findings shall be submitted to the issuing authority within
15 days from the date on which the inspection took place.
   (K)   Branding and scarification are prohibited in the city.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 113.11 HEALTH AND SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall engage in the practice of tattooing and/or body piercing at
any place in the city without complying with the following regulations.
   (A)   Every place where tattooing and/or body piercing is practiced shall be
equipped with an adequate and conveniently located toilet room and hand
lavatory for the accommodation of employees and patrons. The hand lavatory
shall be supplied with hot and cold running water, under pressure; shall be
maintained in good repair at all times; and shall be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition. Toilet fixtures and seats shall be of a sanitary open front
design and readily cleanable. Easily cleanable, covered receptacles shall be
provided for waste materials. Every lavatory facility shall be provided with an
adequate supply of hand cleansing compound and single service sanitary towels
and hand drying devices.
   (B)   No person having any communicable blood or skin infection or other
communicable diseases of the blood or skin shall practice tattooing and/or body
piercing or shall be tattooed or body pierced.
   (C)   All disposable needles, needle bars, tubes, pigment receptacles,
stencils outline or marking pens, piercing gun parts in contact with skin,
razor blades, sharps, or other equipment utilized for penetrating the skin
shall be individually prepackaged and pre-sterilized and stored in a self-
sealing sterilizing pouch. No such equipment shall be used for more than one
customer. Tools and supplies must be stored in a dust-free container. All bio-
hazardous waste shall be disposed of in accordance with law, and disposal
procedures shall be approved by the issuing authority. Sterilizing solutions
and methods may be used for the purpose of sterilizing instruments other than
needles, razor blades, sharps, or other equipment, utilized for penetrating the
skin when such sterilizing solutions and methods are approved by the issuing
authority.
   (D)   The following procedures shall be used for skin preparation.
      (1)   Each operator shall wash his or her hands thoroughly with soap and
water and then dry them with a clean towel before and after each tattoo or body
piercing. Operators with skin infections of the hand shall not perform a
tattooing or body piercing services. The use of sterile surgical gloves is
mandatory for all procedures performed under the licensure of this chapter. All
jewelry, forceps, piercing equipment, and tattooing equipment not described in
division (C) above, that this part of an invasive procedure shall be sterilized
in a steam pressure autoclave for at least 15 minutes at a minimum of 250°F
(121°C) and at a minimum of 15 pounds of chamber pressure, or a minimum of
240°F (115°C) and at a minimum of ten pounds of chamber pressure before use on
a customer, and after their use shall be again so sterilized.
      (2)   Whenever it is necessary possible to shave the skin, pre-packaged,
pre-sterilized, disposable razor blades shall be used. A new disposable razor
blade must be used for each customer.
      (3)   The skin area to be tattooed or pierced shall be thoroughly cleaned
with germicidal soap, rinsed thoroughly with water, and sterilized with an
antiseptic solution approved by the issuing authority. After tattooing and/or
body piercing, a sterile dressing shall be applied to the affected area.
      (4)   All bandages and surgical dressings used in connection with the
tattooing and/or body piercing of any person shall be individually pre-
packaged, pre-sterilized, and disposable. Every operation shall provide single
service towels or wipes for each customer and such towels or wipes shall be
stored and disposed of in a manner of in a bio-hazard container and picked up
by a certified bio-hazard waste company or contracted with the local hospital
for incineration.
   (E)   All tables, chairs, furniture, or area on which a patron receives a
tattoo or body piercing shall be covered by single service disposable paper or
clean linens, or in the alternative, the table, chair, or furniture on which
the patron receives a tattoo and/or body piercing shall be impervious to
moisture and shall be properly sanitized after each tattoo or body piercing.
Tables and counter tops shall be industrial grade Formica or similar material.
Drop cloths made of two-ply paper and plastic shall be available for use as
needed.
   (F)   Every operator shall provide single service towels or wipes for each
customer or person and such towels and wipes shall be stored and disposed of in
a manner acceptable to the issuing authority.
   (G)   Every operator shall wear clean, washable garments and protective
latex disposable gloves when engaged in the practice of tattooing and/or body
piercing. If garments are contaminated with blood or body fluids, such garments
shall be removed and changed and cleaned or disposed of in a manner acceptable
to the issuing authority.
   (H)   Pigments used in tattooing shall be pre-made and commercially prepared
and free from bacteria and noxious agents and substances including mercury. The
pigments used from stock solutions for each customer shall be placed in a
single service receptacle and such receptacle and remaining solution shall be
discarded after use on each customer in accordance with procedures approved by
the issuing authority.
   (I)   All bandages and surgical dressings used in connection with the
tattooing and body piercing of any person shall be sterile.
   (J)   Jewelry for the other parts of the body shall be made of implant
grade, high quality stainless steel (300 series), solid 14K and 18K gold
niobium, titanium, platinum, or a dense low porosity plastic such as
monofilament nylon, acrylic, or Lucite. Ear studs or other jewelry designed for
earlobe piercing are not appropriate jewelry for other body parts. Jewelry
shall have no nicks, scratches, or irregular surfaces which might endanger the
tissues. Jewelry shall be pre-sterilized and in a sealed package.
   (K)   There shall not be less than 150 square feet of floor space at the
place where the practice of tattooing and/or body piercing is conducted, and
said place shall be so lighted and ventilated as to comply with the standard
approved by the issuing authority.
   (L)   No person shall practice tattooing and/or body piercing while under
the influence of alcoholic beverages or illicit drugs. No customer shall be
tattooed and/or body pierced while under the influence of alcoholic beverages
or illicit drugs.
   (M)   The operator shall provide the person tattooed and/or body pierced
with printed instructions on the approved care of the tattoo and/or body
piercing during the healing process.
   (N)   No smoking shall be allowed in the establishment.
   (O)   No place licensed as a tattoo and/or body piercing establishment shall
be used or occupied as living or sleeping quarters.
   (P)   No animals or pets shall be allowed in the establishment with the
exception of guide dogs or animals to aid handicapped patrons.
   (Q)   All personnel performing these procedures are strongly urged to obtain
an immunization for Hepatitis B.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 113.12 HINDRANCE.
   Any person hindering the efforts of city officials to investigate possible
violations of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 113.13 CONFLICT OF PROVISIONS.
   In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in conflict
with the provision of any zoning, building, fire, safety, or health ordinance
or code in the city, the provision which establishes the higher standard for
the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the people shall
prevail. In any case where a provision of this chapter is found to be in
conflict with a provision of any other ordinance or code of the city existing
on the effective date of this chapter which established a lower standard for
the promotion and protection of the health and safety of the property, the
provision of this chapter shall be deemed to prevail. The determination of the
applicability of this chapter in light of the above rules of interpretation
shall be made by the city and its determination shall be final.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-9-2008)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any persons violating any provision of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be punished not more than the maximum
penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by law.
   (B)   The City Council may, upon ten days’ written notice to the operator
and following a public hearing, revoke the license or suspend the license if
the licensee submitted false information or omitted material information in the
license process required by this chapter. The City Council may also revoke the
license or suspend the license for a violation of:
      (1)   Any provision of this chapter or any other local law governing the
same activity during the license period; and
      (2)   Any criminal law during the license period which adversely affects
the ability to honestly, safely, or lawfully conduct a tattooing and/or body
piercing business.
(Ord. 236, passed 6-9-2008)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Use of weapons
   
130.02   Use of city swimming pool restricted
   
130.03   Use of public parks regulated
   
130.04   Resisting a police officer or a public officer
   
130.05   Curfew
   
130.06   Use of cannabis and cannabis derived products in public places
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Health and Safety; Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
§ 130.01 USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   Restrictions. No person except a police officer in the performance of
duty shall, within the city, discharge any gun, pistol, or firearm of any
description or carry any such weapon unless it is dismounted or broken apart or
carried in a case in such a manner that it cannot be discharged. This division
does not prevent the carrying of a handgun within the city under a permit
subject to the restrictions imposed by law.
   (B)   Air rifles, sling shots. No person shall use or discharge any air
rifle or sling shot within the city.
   (C)   Offense by parents, guardians. It is unlawful for any parent or
guardian of any person under the age of 14 years knowingly to permit such
person to violate any provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 130.01) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 USE OF CITY SWIMMING POOL RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter in or upon the area of the
Hector Municipal Swimming Pool, which is enclosed by a fence or other
structure, after the area has been closed to usage to the public or while there
is no lifeguard, water safety instructor, or other authorized supervisor
present at the area.
(Prior Code, § 130.02) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 USE OF PUBLIC PARKS REGULATED.
   No person or persons shall enter or remain in any public park in the city
between the hours of 11:30 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 130.03) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 RESISTING A POLICE OFFICER OR A PUBLIC OFFICER.
   Every person who, in the city, shall willfully resist, delay, or obstruct a
police officer or a public officer in discharging or attempting to discharge a
duty of his or her respective office shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 130.04) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CURFEW HOURS. 
         (a)   From 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, or
Thursday until 6:00 a.m. of the following day; and
         (b)   From 12:30 a.m. until 6:00 a.m. on any Saturday or Sunday.
      EMERGENCY. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state that calls for immediate action. The term includes, but not limited to, a
fire, a natural disaster, an automobile accident, or any situation requiring
immediate action to prevent serious bodily injury or loss of life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately owned place of business operated for a
profit to which the public is invited, including, but not limited to, any place
of amusement or entertainment.
      GUARDIAN. 
         (a)   A person who, under the court order, is the guardian of the
person of a minor; or
         (b)   A public or private agency with whom a minor has been placed by
a court.
      MINOR. Any person under the age of 17 years of age.
      OPERATOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, or corporation
operating, managing, or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of the
corporation.
      PARENT. A person who is:
         (a)   A natural parent, adoptive parent, or step-parent of another
person; or
         (b)   At least 18 years of age and authorized by the parent or
guardian to have the care and custody of a minor child.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities, and shops.
      REMAIN. 
         (a)   To linger or stay; or
         (b)   To fail to leave premises when requested to do so by a police
officer or the owner, operator, or other person in control of the premises.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement, or protracted loss
or impairment of the function or any bodily member or organ.
   (B)   Restrictions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any minor to remain in any public place or
on the premises of any establishment within the city during curfew hours.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any parent or guardian of a minor to
knowingly permit, or by insufficient control allow, the minor to remain in any
public place or on the premises of any establishment within the city during
curfew hours. The term KNOWINGLY includes knowledge which the parent or
guardian should reasonably be expected to have concerning the whereabouts of a
minor in the legal custody of that parent or guardian.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, or any employee of an
establishment to knowingly allow a minor to remain upon the premises of the
establishment during the curfew hours.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   The following shall constitute valid exceptions to the operation of
the curfew, that the minor was:
         (a)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
         (b)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
         (c)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
         (d)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from employment activity, without any detour or stop;
         (e)   Involved in an emergency;
         (f)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
         (g)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
         (h)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
         (i)   Married or has been married.
      (2)   It is a defense to the prosecution under division (B) that the
owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the Police
Department that a minor was present on the premises of the establishment during
the curfew hours and refused to leave.
   (D)   Enforcement. Before taking any enforcement action under this section,
a police officer shall ask the apparent offender’s age and reason for being in
a public place. The officer shall not issue a citation under this section
unless the officer reasonably believes that an offense has occurred and that,
based on any response and other circumstances, no defense in division (C) is
present.
(Prior Code, § 130.05) (Ord. 216, passed 6-13-2000) Penalty, see §
130.99
  § 130.06 USE OF CANNABIS AND CANNABIS DERIVED PRODUCTS IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   This section is adopted by the City of Hector for the purpose of
protecting public health and safety by regulating/prohibiting the use of
cannabis and cannabis derived products in public places and places of public
accommodation within the city.
      (2)   Minnesota Session Law 2023, Ch. 63, effective in relevant part
August 1, 2023, establishes that the adult use, possession and personal growing
of cannabis is legal subject to the requirements and restrictions of Minnesota
Statutes.
      (3)   M.S. § 342.0263, Subd. 5 authorizes the adoption of a local
ordinance establishing a petty misdemeanor offense for public use of cannabis.
      (4)   The city intends to be proactive in protecting public health and
safety by enacting an ordinance that will mitigate threats presented to the
public and public health by the public use of cannabis.
      (5)   The City of Hector (hereinafter "the city") recognizes the risks
that unintended access and use of cannabis products and exposure to cannabis
and its effects present to the health, welfare, and safety of members of the
public and in particular the youth of the city.
   (B)   Definitions. Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by
context, all terms shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. The
following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this section, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS FLOWER. Cannabis flower that is approved for sale by
the Minnesota Office of Cannabis Management or is substantially similar to a
product approved by the office. ADULT-USE CANNABIS FLOWER does not include
medical cannabis flower, hemp plant parts, or hemp-derived consumer products.
      ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCTS. A cannabis product that is approved for sale
by the office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the office.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCT includes edible cannabis products but does not
include medical cannabinoid products or lower- potency hemp edibles.
      CANNABIS FLOWER. The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a
cannabis plant. CANNABIS FLOWER includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical
cannabis flower. CANNABIS FLOWER does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant
parts, or hemp-derived consumer products.
      CANNABIS PRODUCT. Any of the following:
         (a)   Cannabis concentrate;
         (b)   A product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited
to tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
flower; or
         (c)   Any other product that contains cannabis concentrate.
      HEMP DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS. A product intended for human or animal
consumption, does not contain cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and:
         (a)   Contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or
         (b)   Contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived cannabinoids
in combination with other ingredients.
         (c)   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCTS does not include artificially
derived cannabinoids, lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical
products, hemp fiber products, or hemp grain.
      LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. Any product that:
         (a)   Is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
         (b)   Contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived
cannabinoid; in combination with food ingredients;
         (c)   Is not a drug;
         (d)   Consists of servings that contain no more than five milligrams
of delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabinol, 25 milligrams of
cannabinol, or any combination of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the
identified amounts;
         (e)   Does not contain more than a combined total of 0.5 milligrams of
all other cannabinoids per serving;
         (f)   Does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
         (g)   Does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or
cannabis flower; and
         (h)   Is a type of product approved for sale by the office or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the office, including but not
limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked
goods.
      PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, refreshment, entertainment,
recreation, or transportation facility of any kind, whose goods, services,
facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations are extended, offered,
sold, or otherwise made available to the public.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A public park or trail, public street or sidewalk, any
enclosed, indoor area used by the general public, including, but not limited
to, theaters, restaurants, bars, food establishments, places licensed to sell
intoxicating liquor, wine, or malt beverages, retail businesses, gyms, common
areas in buildings, public shopping areas, auditoriums, arenas, or other places
of public accommodation.
         (a)   Exceptions to the definition of PUBLIC PLACE or PLACE OF PUBLIC
ACCOMMODATION. A PUBLIC PLACE or a PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION does not
include the following:
            1.   A private residence, including the individual's curtilage or
yard.
            2.   A private property, not generally accessible by the public,
unless the individual is explicitly prohibited from consuming cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products on the property by the owner of the property; or
            3.   On the premises of an establishment or event licensed to
permit on- site consumption.
      SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, pipe, or any other lighted or heated product containing
cannabis flower, cannabis products, artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-
derived consumer products. Smoking includes carrying or using an activated
electronic delivery device for human consumption through inhalation of aerosol
or vapor from the product.
   (C)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products in a public place or a
place of public accommodation unless the premises is an establishment or event
licensed to permit on-site consumption of adult-use cannabis flower and adult
use cannabis products. See M.S. § 342.09, Subd. 1(2) and Subd.1(7)(iii) and
M.S. § 152.0263, Subd. 5.
      (2)   No person shall vaporize or smoke cannabis flower, cannabis
products, artificially derived cannabinoids, or hemp-derived consumer products
in any location where the smoke, aerosol, or vapor would be inhaled by a minor.
See M.S. § 342.09, Subd. 1(7)(b)(9).
(Ord. 2024-O-1, passed - -)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Whoever violated any provision of this chapter for which no
other penalty has been established shall be punished as provided in §
10.99.
   (B)   Weapon regulations penalty. Any person who violates §
130.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 130.01)
   (C)   Swimming pool regulations penalty. Any person guilty of a violation of
§
130.02 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 130.02)
   (D)   Park regulations penalty. Any person entering or remaining in a public
park between the hours of 11:30 p.m. and 8:00 a.m., after being requested or
ordered to leave by a law enforcement officer, in violation of §
130.03, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 130.03)
   (E)   Curfew penalties.
      (1)   A person who violates a provision of §
130.05 is guilty of a separate offense for each day or part of a day during
which the violation is committed, continued, or permitted.
      (2)   Any minor who is convicted of a violation of §
130.05 after the case has been referred for prosecution in the trial court
under M.S. § 260.125, as it may be amended from time to time, and any adult
person having the care and custody of such minor is guilty of a petty
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $200.
(Prior Code, § 130.99)
   (F)   Use of cannabis and cannabis derived products in public places
penalty.
      (1)   Criminal penalty. A violation of §
130.06 shall be a petty misdemeanor punishable by a fine of up to $300. Nothing
in §
130.06 shall prohibit the United States, the State of Minnesota, or the city
from investigating or prosecuting any other activity that is a crime under any
other federal or state statute or county ordinance.
      (2)   An alleged violation or violation of §
130.06 may be investigated by a peace officer as defined in M.S. § 626.84,
Subd. 1. Any alleged violation or violation of §
130.06 shall be prosecuted by the city.
(Ord. 216, passed 6-13-2000; Ord. 2024-O-01, passed - -)
 
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   ZONING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Minnesota State Building Code adopted
   
150.02   Unlicensed contractors
   
150.03   Permit fee schedule adopted
Numbering of Houses and Buildings
   
150.15   Duties of owner
   
150.16   Assignment of numbers
   
150.17   Size of numbers
   
150.18   Duties of Street Commissioner
   
150.19   Report of Administrator
Billboards
   
150.30   Purpose
   
150.31   Prohibition
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 MINNESOTA STATE BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Codes adopted by reference. The Minnesota State Building Code, as
adopted by the Commissioner of Administration pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.101 to
326B.194, including all of the amendments, rules, and regulations established,
adopted, and published from time to time by the state’s Commissioner of
Administration, through the Building Codes and Standards Division is hereby
adopted by reference with the exception of the optional chapters, unless
specifically adopted in this section. The Minnesota State Building Code is
hereby incorporated in this section as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   Application, administration, and enforcement.
      (1)   The application, administration, and enforcement of the code shall
be in accordance with the State Building Code. The code shall be enforced
within the extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 326B.121, Subd. 2, when
so established by this section.
      (2)   The code enforcement agency of this municipality is called the City
of Hector.
      (3)   This code shall be enforced by the state’s Certified Building
Official designated by the city to administer the code.
(M.S. § 326B.133, Subd. 1)
   (C)   Permits and fees.
      (1)   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized in M.S. § 326B.62, Subd. 2.
      (2)   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the city in §
150.03. In addition, a surcharge fee shall be collected on all permits issued
for work governed by this code in accordance with M.S. § 326B.148.
   (D)   Violations and penalties. A violation of the code is a misdemeanor.
   (E)   Building Code optional chapters. The State Building Code, established
pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.101 to 326B.194, allows the city to adopt by reference
and enforce certain optional chapters of the most current edition of the State
Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 150.01) (Ord. 227, passed 5-9-2005)
§ 150.02 UNLICENSED CONTRACTORS.
   A building permit shall not be issued to any person who is required to be a
licensed residential contractor under the provisions of M.S. § 326B.84, as it
may be amended from time to time, unless the person has a license. The Building
Official or other person issuing a building permit shall report any unlicensed
person applying for the permit to the state’s Commissioner of Commerce.
(Prior Code, § 150.02)
§ 150.03 PERMIT FEE SCHEDULE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Assignment of fees. Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by
the State Building Code. Those fees, assigned by the city, can be found in the
attached appendixes:
      (1)   Appendix 1: Explanation of Valuation Amounts;
      (2)   Appendix 2: Residential Building Permit Fees; and
      (3)   Appendix 3: Commercial Building Permit Fees.
   (B)   Adjusting of fees. In accordance with the collection of fees, the
forcing agency during the inspections may adjust fees to cover inflation,
mandates by the state, and other factors not expressed in this section without
the requirement of repeated ordinances. Future establishment of fees may be
done by city resolution.
(Prior Code, § 150.03) (Ord. 228, passed 5-9-2005; Ord. 228(A), passed 10-28-
2008)
NUMBERING OF HOUSES AND BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 DUTIES OF OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of the owner, agent, lessor, or occupant of every house
or other building, except barns, garages, and other buildings which are part of
the same property with a numbered house or building, to place on every such
building its property street number so that the same shall be clearly visible
from the sidewalk. Numbers shall be placed on such houses and buildings within
30 days from the time the owner, agents, lessors, or occupants are notified
either by mail, publication, or telephone of the assignment of numbers to the
houses as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.15)
§ 150.16 ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   Numbers shall be assigned to houses and buildings from Main Street and Ash
Avenue as bases, and in the following manner.
   (A)   All houses and buildings situated within the first block north of Ash
Avenue on all intersecting streets shall be given numbers between 101 and 199
inclusive; within the second block numbers between 200 and 299 inclusive shall
be used, and so on in each succeeding block; and all numbers shall be indicated
by adding the word “North” to the name of the street.
   (B)   In like manner, the numbers between 101 and 199 inclusive shall be
used in the first block south of Ash Avenue on intersecting streets, and each
succeeding hundred in each succeeding block, with the addition of “East” or
“West” to the avenue name as the case may be.
   (C)   Starting from the base streets of Main Street and Ash Avenue, odd
numbers shall be on the left and even numbers shall be on the right; that is to
say, going north from the base street, Ash Avenue, even numbers shall be on the
east, odd number shall be on the west; going south from the base street, Ash
Avenue, even numbers shall be on the west, odd numbers shall be on the east;
going west from the base street, Main Street, even numbers shall be on the
north, odd numbers shall be on the south; going east from the base street, Main
Street, even numbers shall be on the south and odd numbers shall be on the
north.
   (D)   Within any block, the houses or buildings nearer the base street shall
use the smaller numbers. In assigning numbers to houses and buildings between
which one or more 25 foot lots be unimproved, sufficient numbers shall be
allowed for later assignments to such vacant lots.
(Prior Code, § 150.16)
§ 150.17 SIZE OF NUMBERS.
   All numbers and all letters as may be used in this subchapter shall be made
of plainly visible material and in a size not less than three and five-eights
inches in height. The numbers or letters shall be reflectorized material or
mounted on contrasting colored background.
(Prior Code, § 150.17)
§ 150.18 DUTIES OF STREET COMMISSIONER.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to assign numbers as herein
before provided to every house or other building in the city and to report the
numbers assigned to the next regular meeting of the Council. The Council shall
at once consider such report and accept and by resolution approve the same with
such revisions and amendments as it may deem necessary. A copy of the report as
approved shall be filed with the resolution in the proceedings of the Council;
a copy of the report and resolution, properly certified, shall be attached to
the plat of the city in the office of the County Register of Deeds and to the
plat of the city in the office of the City Administrator; and the numbers
assigned may be entered upon appropriate blocks and lots indicated on the
plats. It shall be the duty of the City Administrator at once to notify the
owners, agents, lessors, or occupants of such houses or buildings, either by
mail, publication, or telephone, of the numbers so assigned.
(Prior Code, § 150.18)
§ 150.19 REPORT OF ADMINISTRATOR.
   Whenever any house or other building is to be erected hereafter, a number
shall be assigned at the time the building permit is granted therefor. On or
before January 31 of each year hereafter, it shall be the duty of the City
Administrator to prepare certificates stating the new numbers assigned during
the preceding calendar year and send one to the County Register of Deeds for
attaching to the plat of the city as aforesaid, and to attach another to the
plat in the office of the City Administrator. The numbers may be approximately
entered upon the plats.
(Prior Code, § 150.19)
BILLBOARDS
§ 150.30 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the city to prevent, reduce, or eliminate any
interference with airport traffic. The city believes that the prohibiting of
the placing or using of property for billboards and other similar advertising
is necessary to protect the public health and safety.
(Prior Code, § 150.35) (Ord. 189, passed 7-12-1994)
§ 150.31 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to place or construct a billboard or
similar structures on either side of State Highway 4, south of U.S. Highway
212, without first obtaining the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to place or construct a billboard or
other similar structures on any city owned airport property.
(Prior Code, § 150.36) (Ord. 189, passed 7-12-1994) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter for which no other
penalty is provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever shall fail to comply with the provisions of §§
150.15 to
150.19 or whoever shall affix to or display upon any house or building any such
numbers other than those assigned to it shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and,
upon conviction therefor, shall be fined as determined by §
10.99. Each and every day thereafter constitutes a separate and distinct
violation of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 150.20)
   (C)   Violations of §§
150.30 and
150.31 shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by a fine
determined by §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 150.37)
(Ord. 189, passed 7-12-1994)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
151.001   Intent and purpose
   
151.002   Interpretation
   
151.003   Compliance
   
151.004   Definitions
   
151.005   Relief from personal responsibility
Non-Conforming Lots, Uses, and Structures
   
151.020   Intent
   
151.021   Non-conforming lots of record
   
151.022   Non-conforming uses of land
   
151.023   Non-conforming structures
   
151.024   Repairs and maintenance
Zoning Administration
   
151.035   Powers given to the City Council
   
151.036   Enforcement
   
151.037   Enforcement officer
   
151.038   Variances
   
151.039   Ordinance amendments and land rezonings
   
151.040   Site plan review
   
151.041   Conditional uses
   
151.042   Public hearings
   
151.043   Fees, charges, and expenses
General Provisions
   
151.055   Compliance
   
151.056   Building requirements
   
151.057   Area requirements
   
151.058   Minimum requirements
   
151.059   Dwelling on any lot or record
   
151.060   Height limitations not applicable
   
151.061   Yard and frontage limitations not applicable
   
151.062   Yard space, general
   
151.063   Placement of single- and two-family residential structures on large
lots
   
151.064   Yard space encroachments; projections into yards
   
151.065   More than one principal building on a lot
   
151.066   Housing projects utilizing the “zero lot line” concept
   
151.067   Accessory buildings
   
151.068   Fences
   
151.069   Maximum occupancy
Zoning Districts and Zoning Map
   
151.080   Establishment of zoning districts and provisions for official zoning
map
   
151.081   Rules for interpretation of district boundaries
   
151.082   Rules for structures in districts
   
151.083   Manufactured principal dwellings
   
151.084   AG Agricultural District
   
151.085   R-1 One-Family Residential District
   
151.086   R-2 Multiple-Family Residential District
   
151.087   B-1 Central Business District
   
151.088   B-2 Highway Commercial District
   
151.089   M-1 Manufacturing District
   
151.090   Manufactured home parks
   
151.091   R-3 High Density Residential District
Special Provisions
   
151.105   Site plan reviews for multiple-family housing, commercial,
industrial, or manufactured home park developments
   
151.106   Off-street parking and loading facilities
   
151.107   Schedule of off-street parking requirements
   
151.108   Bed and breakfast establishments
   
151.109   Service station and car wash regulations
   
151.110   Filling or removal of soil, sand, or other materials
   
151.111   Anti-blight regulations
   
151.112   Antennas and towers
   
151.113   Relocating structures; house moving
   
151.114   Storage or transfer of flammable liquid
   
151.115   Performance standards
   
151.116   Signs
   
151.117   Opt-out of M.S. § 462.3593
Municipal Airport Zoning
   
151.130   Purpose and authority
   
151.131   Short title
   
151.132   Definitions
   
151.133   Airspace obstruction zoning
   
151.134   Land use safety zoning
   
151.135   Airport zoning map
   
151.136   Non-conforming uses
   
151.137   Permits
   
151.138   Variances
   
151.139   Hazard marking and lighting
   
151.140   Airport Zoning Administrator
   
151.141   Board of Adjustment
   
151.142   Appeals
   
151.143   Judicial review
   
151.144   Conflicts
 
   
151.998   Violations
   
151.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Land affected by municipal airport zoning
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 151.001 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of this chapter shall be:
   (A)   To regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings hereafter to be
erected;
   (B)   To establish, regulate, and limit the building or setback lines on or
along any street, traffic-way, drive, or parkway;
   (C)   To regulate and limit the intensity of use of lot areas and to
regulate and determine the area of open spaces within and surrounding buildings
hereafter to be erected;
   (D)   To classify, regulate, and restrict the location of trades and
industries and the location of buildings designed for specified industries and
the location of buildings designed for specified industrial, business,
residential, and other uses;
   (E)   To divide the entire municipality into districts of such number,
shape, and area, and of such different classes according to use of land and
buildings, height and bulk of buildings, intensity of use of lot areas, area of
open spaces, and other classifications, as may be deemed best suited to
regulate development;
   (F)   To fix standards to which buildings or structures therein shall
conform;
   (G)   To prohibit uses, buildings, or structures incompatible with the
character of established districts;
   (H)   To prevent additions to and alteration or remodeling of existing
buildings or structures in such a way as to avoid the restrictions and
limitations lawfully imposed;
   (I)   To classify, regulate, and restrict the use of property on the basis
of land use relationship;
   (J)   To provide for variations from such regulations, standards,
restrictions, and limitations;
   (K)   To provide for conditional uses, including planned development, within
the established districts;
   (L)   To provide administrative bodies and procedures as shall be necessary
to the implementation and enforcement of the various provisions of this
chapter;
   (M)   To provide for the orderly amendment of this chapter; and
   (N)   To provide regulations pertaining to pre-existing lots, structures,
and uses which do not conform to the regulations, standards, restrictions, and
limitations established by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.001) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.002 INTERPRETATION.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public
health, safety, comfort, morals, and general welfare of the city. Where the
provisions of this chapter impose greater restriction than those of any
statute, other ordinance, or regulation, the provisions of this chapter shall
be controlling. Where the provisions of any statute, other ordinance, or
regulation impose greater restrictions than this chapter, the provisions of
such statute, other ordinance, or regulations shall be controlling.
(Prior Code, § 151.002) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.003 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All buildings erected hereafter, all uses of land or buildings
established hereafter, all structural alteration or relocation of existing
buildings occurring hereafter, and all enlargements of or additions to existing
uses occurring hereafter, shall be subject to all regulations of this chapter
which are applicable to the zoning district in which such buildings, uses, or
land shall be located.
   (B)   However, where a zoning permit for a building or structure has been
issued in accordance with law prior to the effective date of this chapter,
which has not by its terms expired prior to such effective date and provided
that construction is begun before the permit’s expiration and within one year
of its effective date and diligently pursued to completion, the building or
structure may be completed in accordance with the approved plans on the basis
of which the zoning permit was issued, subject thereafter to the provisions of
this chapter relating to non-conformities.
(Prior Code, § 151.003) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.004 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. When used
in this chapter, the following terms shall be deemed to have the meanings
herein ascribed to them in addition to the definitions given in the Uniform
Building and Fire Codes.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building or portion of the main building
which is located on the same lot as the main building and the use of which is
clearly incidental to the use of the main building.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use or structure subordinate to the principal use of the
land or a building on the same lot and serving a purpose customarily incidental
to the use of the main building.
   ALLEY. A public or private thoroughfare which affords only a secondary means
of access to abutting property and is not intended for general traffic
circulation.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multi-use building arranged and
intended as a place of residence for a single family or a group of individuals
living together as a single housekeeping unit.
   APARTMENT BUILDING. Any building or portion thereof which is designed,
built, rented, leased, let, or hired out to be occupied, or which is occupied
as the home or residence of three or more families living independently of each
other and doing their own cooking in the building, and shall include flats or
apartments.
   ARTERIAL STREET, MINOR. County State Aid highways and major local streets.
   ARTERIAL STREET, PRINCIPAL. State Highway 4 and U.S. Highway 212.
   AUTOMOBILE OR TRAILER SALES LOT. An open area other than a street, used for
the display, sale, or rental of new or used motor vehicles or trailers in
operable condition and where no repair work is done.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. Any building or premises, or portion thereof,
used or intended to be used for the retail dispensing or sale of automobile
fuels, which activity may be accompanied by accessory uses such as sale of
lubricants, tires, accessories or supplies, or minor repairing of automobiles.
   AUTOMOBILE WASH (CAR WASH). Any building or premises, or portion thereof,
the use of which is devoted to the business of washing automobiles for a fee,
whether by automated cleaning devices or otherwise.
   AUTOMOBILE WRECKING, SALVAGE YARD. The dismantling or disassembling of used
motor vehicles or trailers, or the storage, sale, or dumping of dismantled,
partially dismantled, obsolete, or wrecked vehicles or their parts.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base sub-grade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of the
depth of excavation below ground level.
   BED-AND-BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT. A structure designed and used as a
residence in which one or more bedrooms are rented to transient guests on a
day-to-day basis and in which meals are served to these overnight guests.
   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling where meals or lodging, or both, are provided for
compensation to three or more persons, who are not transients, by pre-
arrangement for definite periods, in contradiction to hotels and motels as
herein defined.
   BUFFER. The use of land, topography (differences in elevation), space,
fences, or landscape plantings to screen or partially screen a tract of
property from another tract or property and thus reduce undesirable influences
such as sight, noise, dust, and other external effects which a land use may
have upon other adjacent or nearby land uses.
   BUILDING. Any structure designed or intended for the support, enclosure,
shelter, or protection of persons, animals, or property. When a structure is
completely divided into parts by an unpierced wall or walls extending from the
ground to the top of such structure, each such part shall be deemed a separate
BUILDING.
   BUILDING LINE. An imaginary line on a development site corresponding with
the series of points where an exterior building wall meets the grade of the
earth.
   BUSINESS. Any occupation, employment, or enterprise wherein merchandise is
exhibited or sold or rented, or which occupies time, attention, labor, or
materials, or where services are offered for compensation.
   CELLAR. A portion of a building located partly or wholly underground and
having half or more than half its clear floor to ceiling height below grade.
   CLINIC. An establishment where patients, who are not lodged overnight, are
admitted for examination and treatment by one or more of a group of physicians
or dentists, or both, practicing together.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Unless otherwise stated, it is the general plan for land
use, transportation, and community facilities prepared and maintained by the
city.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use of land not normally allowed in a particular zoning
district but which may be allowed under certain conditions.
   CORNER LOT. A lot situated at the junction of and fronting on two or more
streets.
   DAY CARE CENTER. A business in which not more than ten children receive
adult supervision and meals in the temporary daily absence of their parents. A
similar business with fewer than ten children is considered a home occupation.
   DOG KENNEL. Any place where four or more dogs over six months of age are
owned, kept, boarded, bred, and/or offered for sale.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor private way used by vehicles and pedestrians on an
individual lot or parcel of land.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A dwelling which is joined to another dwelling.
   DWELLING, CLUSTER OR GROUP. A group of two or more detached dwellings
located on a parcel of land and having any yard or court in common.
   DWELLING, DETACHED. A dwelling, including its attached garage, if any, which
is entirely surrounded by open space on the same lot.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building designed for or occupied by more than
two families.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A detached building designed for and occupied by
not more than one family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed for and occupied by two families.
   DWELLING UNIT. A residential accommodation including complete kitchen
facilities permanently installed which are arranged, designed, used, or
intended for use as living quarters for one household and not more than one
roomer or boarder. Where a private garage is structurally attached, it shall be
considered as part of the building in which the DWELLING UNIT is located.
   EARTH SHELTER. Constructed so that more than 50% of the exterior surface
area of the building, excluding garages or other accessory buildings, is
covered with earth and the State Building Code standards are satisfied.
Partially completed buildings shall not be considered EARTH SHELTERED.
   EASEMENT. A right held by others to use one’s land for a specified purpose
or purposes.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Overhead or underground electrical, telephone, gas,
steam, or water transmission or distribution systems and structures, or
collection, communication, supply, or disposal systems and structures, operated
by utilities.
   FAMILY. One or more persons related by blood, marriage, or adoption, or
state licensed family, or not more than five persons, including owner occupant,
not so related, occupying a dwelling and living as a single housekeeping unit,
as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding house, private club, or
hotel as herein defined.
   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. A single-family home, duplex, or apartment unit
providing day care for no more than ten children including the day care
operator’s children under five years of age.
   FLOOR AREA. The floor area of a building is the sum of the gross horizontal
areas of the several floors of the building, measured from the exterior faces
of the exterior walls, or from the centerline of a wall separating two
buildings. The FLOOR AREA of a building shall include basement floor area, but
shall not include cellar floor area.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR). The floor area ratio of the building or buildings on
any lot or site area is the gross floor area of the building or buildings on
that lot or site divided by the area of such lot. When used in this chapter,
the FLOOR AREA RATIO multiplied by the lot or site area in questions produces
the maximum amount of floor that may be constructed on such lot or site area.
   FOSTER FAMILY HOME. A family home where children out of their own homes are
cared for 24 hours a day for a period of 30 days or more.
   FRONTAGE. All the property fronting on one side of a street, measured along
such street, between an intersecting street and another intersecting street, a
right-of-way, waterway, end of a dead-end street, or municipal boundary.
   GARAGE. An accessory building, or part of a principal building, used
primarily for the parking of automobiles owned or operated by the residents of
dwellings located on the lot on which it is located. GARAGES are accessed by
dust-free driveways.
   GRADE. 
      (1)   For buildings more than five feet from any street line, the average
level of the finished surface adjacent to the exterior walls of the building.
      (2)   For buildings having one or more exterior walls within five feet of
a street line or lines, the average of the elevations of the sidewalk or
sidewalks, or their equivalent established ground surface, adjacent to such
street line or lines.
   GREEN SPACE. Those portions of a site landscaped with ground cover such as
grass and, possibly, trees and/or shrubs.
   GROUP HOME. A specialized residential facility that provides care on a 24-
hour basis for a selected group and providing specialized care and a planned
treatment program under the direction and control of an agency, institution, or
independent operator. Children of the group home parents under the age of 21
years of age present in the home are included in the total number of children
permitted to live in the home.
   HALF STORY. The portion of a building under a sloping gable, hip, or gambrel
roof, the wall plates of which on at least two opposite exterior walls are not
more than three feet above the floor of such story. No such HALF STORY shall be
used for occupancy except in conjunction with and by the occupants of the floor
immediately below it.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance measured from the sidewalk level,
or its equivalent established ground surface, opposite the middle of the front
of the building to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs, to the deck
line for mansard roofs, and to the mean height level (between eaves and ridge)
for gable and hip roofs.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any occupation which is clearly incidental to the principal
use of the premises, is conducted by a resident occupant, and does not change
the character of the principal use.
   HOSPITAL. An institution providing health services and medical or surgical
care, primarily for in- patients, to three or more non-related individuals
suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity, or other abnormal physical
or mental conditions, and including as an integral part of the institution
related facilities such as laboratories, out-patient facilities, or training
facilities.
   HOTEL. A building in which lodging is provided and offered to the public for
compensation and which is open to transient guests, in contradiction to a
boarding house as herein defined. A HOTEL has more than six guest rooms.
   HOUSEHOLD. Any number of individuals living together on the premises as a
single housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a boarding
house, lodging house, or hotel as defined herein.
   LABORATORY. A place devoted to experimental study such as testing and
analyzing materials, not including manufacturing or packaging of such
materials, except incidentally.
   LAUNDROMAT. An establishment providing washing, drying, or dry cleaning
machines on the premises for rental use to the general public for family
laundering purposes.
   LIGHT INDUSTRY. The processing or fabrication of certain materials or
products where no process involved will produce noise, vibration, air
pollution, fire hazard, or noxious emission which will disturb or endanger
neighboring properties.
   LINTEL SIGN SPACE. A horizontal space on the front facade of a building
immediately above and adjacent to a window or door. In older buildings, this
space was previously occupied by windows.
   LIVABLE FLOOR AREA. The square footage of floor area of a dwelling measured
from the outside of the exterior walls, but not including attics, cellars,
unfinished basements, open porches, breezeways, and garages. Only that floor
area having a ceiling height of seven feet-six inches or more shall be
considered as LIVABLE FLOOR AREA. An unfinished floor may be included as
LIVABLE FLOOR AREA provided plans are submitted to the Zoning Administrator
indicating in detail the layout of the rooms and, provided further, rough
plumbing, heating ducts, and electric circuits are installed during
construction of the building.
   LOADING BERTH. An open, hard-surfaced area, (same as required for parking
lots) other than the street or public right-of-way, the principal use of which
is for the standing, loading, and unloading of trucks and trailers. A minimum
of 780 square feet, excluding access drives, is required.
   LOCAL STREET. A street of limited continuity used primarily for access to
the abutting properties and the local needs of a neighborhood.
   LOT. Land occupied or to be occupied by a building and its accessory
buildings, or a principal use, together with such open spaces as are required
under this chapter, and having its principal frontage upon a street or right-
of-way or easement shown on a plat or survey which has been submitted to and
approved by the Planning Commission and City Council.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting upon two or more streets at their intersection
or junction or a lot bounded on two sides by a curving street where it is
possible to draw two intersecting chords, one each commencing at each of the
two points of intersection of the lot lines and street line, which intersect
with each other to form an interior angle of less than 120 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a lot occupied by the principal and accessory
buildings.
   LOT, DEPTH OF. The mean horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two nonintersecting streets,
as distinguished from a corner lot.
   LOT, FRONT. The portion of a lot abutting a public street. If a lot abuts
two public streets, the LOT FRONT is the narrower of the two lot edges.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land that is recorded as a lot in a subdivision
that has been recorded on the records of the Renville County Recorder,
Minnesota.
   LOT, REAR. The portion of a lot directly parallel with the front property
line, but on irregular lots.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or
more in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
contained in it, and which complies with the Manufactured Home Building Code
established by M.S. § 327.31, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
Wherever the term SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING or SINGLE- FAMILY RESIDENTIAL
STRUCTURE or a similar term is used in this chapter, that term shall include a
MANUFACTURED HOME as defined herein.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A manufactured home park licensed by the State
Department of Health under M.S. § 327.15, as it may be amended from time to
time, and Minn. Rules parts 4630.0200 to 4630.2210, as may be amended from time
to time.
   MOTEL. A series of sleeping or living units, for the lodging of transient
guests, offered to the public for compensation, and with convenient access to
off-street parking spaces for the exclusive use of the guests of occupants.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any building or structure lawfully
existing at the time of the approval of this chapter, or any amendment to it
rendering such building or structure non-conforming, which:
      (1)   Does not comply with all of the regulations of this chapter, or any
amendment hereto, governing bulk, height, and yard requirements for the zoning
district in which such building or structure is located; or
      (2)   Is designed or intended for a non-conforming use.
   NON-CONFORMING LOT OF RECORD. An unimproved lot which was legally recorded
on or before the effective date of this chapter which does not comply with the
lot size requirements for any permitted use in the district in which it is
located. Such lot is considered buildable only as stipulated in §
151.021.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any building or land lawfully occupied by a use at the
time of the approval of this chapter, or any amendment to it rendering such use
non-conforming, which does not comply with all of the regulations of this
chapter, or any amendment hereto, governing use for the zoning districts in
which such use is located.
   NURSING HOME.
      (1)   An establishment which provides full-time convalescent or chronic
care, or both, for three or more individuals who are not related by blood or
marriage to the operator and who, by reason of advanced age, chronic illness,
or infirmity, are unable to care for themselves.
      (2)   No care for the acutely ill, or surgical or obstetrical services,
shall be provided in such an establishment; a hospital shall be construed to be
included in this definition.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill, structure, or matter in, along, across, or projecting
into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory floodplain which may impede,
retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by
catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
   ODOROUS MATTER. Any material that produces an olfactory response among human
beings.
   OFFICE-SHOWROOM BUILDING. A building in which at least 20% of the floor
space is devoted to office activities, the remainder being used for either
warehousing, display, fight manufacturing, or research and testing. Floor-to-
ceiling joist heights in the warehouse portion would be not more than 14 feet.
   OPEN SPACE. The portion of a land parcel not occupied by buildings, other
structures, or parking areas.
   PARKING LOT. A parcel of land containing one or more unenclosed parking
spaces whose use is principal to the lot as differentiated from an accessory
use, as a residential lot.
   PARKING SPACE. A surface area, enclosed or unenclosed, sufficient in size to
store one motor vehicle, together with a street or alley and permitting ingress
and egress of an automobile. A minimum of 170 square feet, excluding access
drives, is required.
   PARKING STRUCTURE. A deck or building, or part thereof, used or intended to
be used for the parking and storage of motor vehicles at one or more levels.
   PARTICULATE MATTER. Material other than water which is suspended or
discharged into the atmosphere in a finely divided form as a liquid or solid.
   POLE BARN. A building with a frame made of wooden or metal parts, with metal
panels covering three or more sides, and without a full foundation.
   PORTABLE RECYCLING UNIT. A mobile facility designed and used to collect
cans, bottles, paper, cardboard, plastics, or other recyclable materials; may
be moveable either under its own power or the power of separate device.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is situated.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The purpose for which land or a building or structure thereon
is designed, arranged, intended, or maintained or for which it is or may be
used or occupied.
   PRIVATE CLUB or LODGE. A building and related facilities owned or operated
by a corporation, association, or group of persons for social, educational, or
recreational purposes of members regularly paying dues, but not primarily for
profit or to render a service which is customarily carried on as a business.
   QUASI-PUBLIC. Essentially public as in services rendered, although under
private ownership or control.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream, or river influenced by a natural or human-made obstruction. In an urban
area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge crossings
would trot typically constitute a REACH.
   RECREATION ESTABLISHMENT. A facility used by a business or non-profit
organization for play, amusement, or relaxation, not including the sale or
consumption of alcohol.
   RECYCLE. To process (as glass or cans) in order to regain material.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment where food is available to the general public
for consumption on the premises.
   RESTAURANT, CARRY-OUT. An establishment which by design of physical
facilities, or by service or packaging procedures, permits or encourages the
purchase of prepared, ready-to-eat foods intended to be consumed off the
premises.
   SALVAGE AND WRECKING YARD. An outdoor facility used by a business engaged in
the reclamation of parts or materials from machinery or buildings.
   SATELLITE ANTENNA. A device for the reception of signals from communication
satellites.
   SCHOOL, PRIMARY, SECONDARY, COLLEGE, OR UNIVERSITY. Any accredited school
having regular sessions with regularly employed instructors teaching subjects
which are fundamental and essential for a general academic education, under the
supervision of, and in accordance with, the applicable statutes of the State of
Minnesota.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between any improvement and a lot
line. A lot line is defined as the location where the lot line meets the city
right-of-way. The rights-of-way may vary from street to street.
   SIGN. A name, identification, description, display, or illustration which is
affixed to, painted, or represented directly or indirectly upon a building,
structure, or piece of land and which directs attention to an object, product,
place, activity, institution, organization, idea, or business.
      (1)   However, a SIGN shall not include any display of official court,
public office notices, or traffic signs, nor shall it include the flag,
separate emblem, or insignia of a nation, political unit of school or religious
group, or lettering built into the wall of a building or other structure.
      (2)   A SIGN inside a building is not included unless its face is visible
only from the exterior of a building. Each display surface of a sign shall be
considered a SIGN.
   SIGN, BUSINESS. A sign which directs attention to a business or profession
conducted or to a commodity, service, or entertainment sold or offered upon the
premises where such sign is located or to which it is affixed.
   SIGN, FLASHING. Any illuminated sign including any sign illuminated by
reflected or refracted light on which the artificial light is not maintained
stationary and/or constant in intensity and color at all times when such sign
is in use. For the purpose of this chapter, any revolving illuminated sign
shall be considered a FLASHING SIGN.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign which is not attached to a building.
   SIGN, GROUND. A freestanding sign which is not over five feet in height and
has its longest edge abutting the ground.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign designed to be moved from place to place.
   SIGN, PROJECTED. A projected sign shall consist of any sign which is
attached to or represented on the surface of a building wall whose leading edge
extends greater than 15 inches.
   SIGN, REPLACEMENT. The removal and replacement of the frame of a sign; does
not include merely changing the message panel or repainting the face of the
sign.
   SIGN, SURFACE AREA. The surface area of a sign is the total area that will
contain the sign. For signs which are not rectangular in shape, the AREA shall
be calculated upon the area of the smallest polygon which completely encloses
the sign. For multi-faced signs, each display face shall be measured, except in
the case of two-sided signs that are identical on both sides. Any material or
color framing used to differentiate such sign from the background of the
building or structure shall be included in measurement of the SURFACE AREA. In
no case shall the supports, uprights by which the sign is supported, be
included in determining the surface area of the sign unless such items are an
integral part of the display. The Zoning Administrator may interpret the
measurement of the sign area with a liberal, consistent interpretation. In no
case shall temporary paper, water color, chalk, and the like, signs that are
displayed in windows be counted as SIGN SURFACE AREA.
   SIGN, WALL. A wall sign shall consist of any sign which is attached flat
against or represented on the surface of a building wall. A WALL SIGN may have
a depth of up to 15 inches.
   SMOKE. Small gas-borne particles other than water that form a visible plume
in the air.
   SOLAR STRUCTURE. A structure designed for use of passive or active solar
energy as part of its heating system.
   SPA. A structure which is not completely enclosed within a building,
designed for therapeutic use which is not drained, cleaned, or refilled for
each individual, equipped, but not by way of limitation, with hydro jet
circulation, hot water, cold water mineral baths, air induction bubbles, or any
combination. Industry terminology for a space includes, but is not limited to,
THERAPEUTIC POOL, HYDROTHERAPY POOL, WHIRLPOOL, HOT SPACE, and HOT TUB.
   SPOT ZONING. A colloquial term describing the geographic definition of a
zoning district in such a manner that the resulting district is very small in
relation to surrounding districts and is not compatible with surrounding
districts.
   STACKING SPACE. A portion of a driveway used for automobiles or trucks in a
queue. The length of a STACKING SPACE is defined as 18 feet.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor above it, or, if there be no floor above it, then
the space between the floor and ceiling above it. A basement designed or used
for dwelling purposes for other than a janitor, maintenance person, or
watchman, or for commercial purposes other than storage, shall be counted as
one-half story. A cellar used for commercial purposes other than storage shall
be counted as one-half story. No other basement or cellar shall be counted as a
STORY. Any level or deck used exclusively for parking purposes shall be counted
as one-half story.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare which affords principal means of access to
abutting property.
   STREET WALL. The main wall nearest to and facing on a street, including sun
parlors and bays, but not including bay windows.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls or partitions, columns, beams, or girders, or any
substantial changes in the roof.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires more
or less permanent location on the ground, or attached to something having a
permanent location on the ground, including manufactured houses and trailers
not meeting exemption criteria in the Floodplain Management District.
   SUPERVISED LIVING FACILITY. A residential structure in which non-family
occupants receive room and board and guidance in daily personal activities.
   SWIMMING POOL or POOL. A permanent or portable structure which is not
completely enclosed within a building, whether below ground level, above ground
level, or partially above and partially below ground level, intended for non-
commercial use as a swimming pool and which exceeds 24 inches in depth capacity
and has a surface area exceeding ten square feet.
   TERRACE. A level plane or surfaced patio, directly adjacent to the principal
building on the surface of the land or on the roof of a building.
   TODDLER. All persons five years of age and younger.
   TOWNHOUSES. A group of attached single-family dwelling units on a common
lot.
   TRUCK TERMINAL. A warehouse and distribution business specializing in the
shipment of goods or materials and which generates significant numbers of semi-
trailer trucks.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use incidental or accessory to the principal use of a lot
or a building located on the same lot as the accessory use.
   USE, PERMITTED. A use which is lawfully established in a particular zoning
district or districts and which conforms with all requirements, regulations,
and performance standards of such district.
   UTILITY BUILDING. A detached accessory building used by the residents of a
residential structure for storing tools and other personal property but not for
the storage of motor vehicles.
   VARIANCE. A modification or variation on the provisions of this chapter as
applied to a specific piece of property, except that modification in the
allowable uses within a zoning district shall not be permitted through the
VARIANCE process.
   WAREHOUSING. The storage of materials, goods, or equipment within an
enclosed building as a principal use.
   WHOLESALING. The selling of goods, equipment, or materials to another
business that in turn sells to other customers.
   YARD. An open space between a building and any lot line which is open to the
sky unobstructed by any permanent or temporary uses or structures.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the entire front of the lot and
measured between the front line of the lot and the front line of the building,
or any projection thereof other than steps, balconies, paved terraces, open
decks, or bay windows.
   YARD, OPEN. A yard in addition to front, side, and rear setbacks in which no
structure, driveway, or parking space shall be located.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the entire rear of a lot and measured
between the rear lot line and the rear of the building, or any projection
thereof, other than steps, balconies, paved terraces, porches, or bay windows.
On corner lots, the REAR shall be considered as parallel to the street upon
which the lot has its least dimension. On both corner lots and interior lots,
the REAR YARD shall in all cases be at the opposite end of the lot from the
front yard.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the building and the side line of the lot
extending from the front yard to the rear yard and measured between the
sideline of the lot and the side of the building, or any projection thereof
other than steps, balconies, paved terraces, open decks, or bay windows.
(Prior Code, § 151.004) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998; Ord. 217, passed 9-10-2001)
§ 151.005 RELIEF FROM PERSONAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   Any claim based upon act or omission of an officer or employee exercising
due care in the execution of any valid or invalid portions of this chapter and
any claim based upon the performance or the failure to exercise or perform a
discretionary function or duty whether or not the discretion is abused, are
hereby enumerated as exceptions to M.S. § 466.02, as it may be amended from
time to time, and the section does not apply. The city shall defend, save
harmless, and indemnify any of its officers or employees, whether elective or
appointed, against any tort claim or demand whether groundless or otherwise
arising out of an alleged act or omission occurring in the performance of duty
in the enforcement and administration of this chapter, except as provided by
M.S. § 466.07, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 151.005)
NON-CONFORMING LOTS, USES, AND STRUCTURES
§ 151.020 INTENT.
   (A)   Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments that
may later be adopted, there exist lots, structures, and uses of land and
structures which were lawful before this chapter was passed or amended, but
which would be prohibited under the terms of this chapter or future amendment.
   (B)   It is the intent of this chapter to phase out such non-conforming uses
within a reasonable time period while retaining full economic value. Such uses
are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with permitted uses in the
district involved. It is further the intent of this chapter that non-
conformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended, or be used as
grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same
district.
   (C)   However, in the case that the structure itself is now non-conforming
as to the special setback requirements, but was built in accordance with the
1979 city zoning ordinance, that structure might be granted a conditional use
permit to expand, providing that expansion would not be violating the
provisions of the 1979 ordinance and it appears that such issuance of a
conditional use permit is in the best interest of the city and the public.
   (D)   A non-conforming use of a structure, a non-conforming use of land or a
non-conforming use of a structure and land shall not be extended or enlarged
after passage of this chapter by attachment of additional signs to a building,
or the placement of additional signs to a building, or the placement of
additional signs or display devices on the land outside the building, or by the
addition of other uses, if such additions are of a nature which would be
prohibited generally in the district involved.
   (E)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction, or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun by the obtaining a zoning
permit and upon which actual building construction has been diligently carried
on. Actual construction is hereby defined to include the placing of
construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner, and demolition, elimination, and removal of an existing structure in
connection with such construction, provided that actual construction work shall
be diligently carried on until the completion of the building involved.
(Prior Code, § 151.015) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.021 NON-CONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory building may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter. This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the
requirements for area, width, or depth that are generally applicable in the
zoning district, provided that other requirements not involving lot dimensions
or area of lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such
lot is located. Variance of yard dimensions and other requirements shall be
obtained only through action of the City Planning Commission and City Council.
Existing platted lots and lot splits prior to the effective date of this
chapter do not need a variance for compliance with dimensional tabulations.
(Prior Code, § 151.016) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.022 NON-CONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter,
lawful use of land exists that is no longer permissible under the terms of this
chapter as enacted or amended, such use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   No such non-conforming use shall be enlarged or increased nor extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   No such non-conforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (C)   If any such non-conforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than one year, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land
is located.
(Prior Code, § 151.017) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.023 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   If a lawful use of a structure, or of structure and premises in combination,
exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter that
would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this chapter, the
lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions.
   (A)   No such structure may be enlarged, extended, converted, reconstructed,
or structurally altered unless the use of the structure is changed to one
permitted within the district in which such building is located. The non-
conforming use shall thereafter be resumed.
   (B)   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than 50% of its fair market value at time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
   (D)   When a non-conforming use of a structure, or structure and premises in
combination, is discontinued or abandoned for more than one year, the
structure, or structure and premises in combination, shall not thereafter be
used except in conformance with the regulations of the district in which it is
located.
   (E)   When a non-conforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
non-conforming status of the land.
(Prior Code, § 151.018) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.024 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any non-conforming use,
normal repair and maintenance may be done provided that the cubic space content
of the building as it existed at the time of passage or amendment of this
chapter shall not be increased.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any city official charged with protecting the public safety, upon
order of such official or the reconditioning required by updated building
codes, fire codes, or energy codes.
(Prior Code, § 151.019) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
ZONING ADMINISTRATION
§ 151.035 POWERS GIVEN TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council may on its own motion, or the on request of the Planning
Commission, or on petition of affected property owners:
   (A)   Change the zoning of a parcel of land from one classification to
another;
   (B)   Change any of the regulations of this chapter as to the use of land in
any district or as to the restrictions upon buildings or structures therein, by
amendment to this chapter;
   (C)   Review and approve conditional use permits;
   (D)   Review site plans for multiple-family buildings (three or more units),
commercial development, or industrial development and mandate the inclusion or
alteration or elements of the plans to protect adjacent properties. When a
variance, conditional use, or rezoning is requested, the site plan must be
reviewed by the Planning Commission and City Council;
   (E)   Hear and decide requests for variances from the literal provision of
this code; and/or
   (F)   Hear and decide appeals by any person affected any alleged error in
any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by any administrative
officer in the enforcement of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.030) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.036 ENFORCEMENT.
   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning Administrator.
The Zoning Administrator may institute, in the name of the city, any
appropriate actions or proceedings against a violator as provided by law.
(Prior Code, § 151.031) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.037 ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   (A)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Zoning
Administrator, who shall be the Building Official, unless the City Council
specifically appoints someone else. The Zoning Administrator shall be
responsible for the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The duties of the Zoning Administrator shall be as follows:
      (1)   Examine all applications pertaining to the use of land, buildings,
or structures, and take other appropriate action on such applications when in
conformance with the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Periodically inspect buildings, structures, and uses of land to
determine compliance with the terms of this chapter;
      (3)   Notify, in writing, any person responsible for violating a
provision of this chapter, indicating the nature of the violation and ordering
the action necessary to correct it;
      (4)   Order discontinuance of illegal use of land, buildings, or
structures; order removal of illegal buildings, structures, additions, or
alterations; order discontinuance of illegal work being done; or take any other
action authorized by this chapter to ensure compliance with or to prevent
violation of its provisions;
      (5)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including
maps, amendments, conditional uses, and variances; and
      (6)   Maintain a current file of all permits and notices of violation,
discontinuance or removal for such time as necessary to ensure continuous
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and, on request, provide
information to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest in any
specific property.
(Prior Code, § 151.032) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.038 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Authority and conditions.
      (1)   The City Planning Commission shall be the Board of Appeals and
Adjustments and may allow a departure from the terms of the zoning regulations
pertaining to height or width of structures, the size of setbacks, the number
of parking spaces, and the size or location of signs where such departure would
not be contrary to the public interest. A variance may be granted only in
instances where their strict enforcement would cause undue hardship because of
circumstances unique to the individual property under consideration, and to
grant such variances only when it is demonstrated that such actions will be in
keeping with the spirit and intent of the chapter.
      (2)   UNDUE HARDSHIP, as used in connection with the granting of a
variance, means the property in question cannot be put to a reasonable use if
used under conditions allowed by the official controls, the plight of the
landowner is due to circumstances unique to the property not created by the
landowner, and the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of the locality. Economic considerations alone shall not constitute an undue
hardship if reasonable use for the property exists under the terms of the
chapter. Undue hardship also includes, but is not limited to, inadequate access
to direct sunlight for solar energy systems. Variances shall be granted for
earth sheltered construction as defined in M.S. § 216C.06, Subd. 14, as it may
be amended from time to time, when in harmony with the chapter. The Board of
Appeals and Adjustments or the governing body, as the case may be, may not
permit as a variance any use that is not permitted under the chapter for
property in the zone where the affected person’s land is located. The board or
governing body, as the case may be, may permit as a variance the temporary use
of a one-family dwelling as a two-family dwelling. The board or governing body,
as the case may be, may impose conditions in the granting of variances to
ensure compliance and to protect adjacent properties.
      (3)   Specific conditions and safeguards may be imposed upon the premises
benefitted by a variance as considered necessary to prevent injurious effects
upon property in the neighborhood or upon public facilities and services.
Violation of such conditions and safeguards shall be a violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   An application for a variance shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator. A nonrefundable application fee, established from time to time
by the City Council by ordinance to cover administrative costs and costs of the
hearing, shall accompany each application. The application shall contain the
following information as well as such additional information as may be required
by the Zoning Administrator:
         (a)   A site plan showing the property dimensions, existing and
proposed buildings and other structures, existing and proposed grading,
landscaping, easement, and location of utilities, as applicable. The Zoning
Administrator may require the applicant to obtain a certified survey at the
time of application;
         (b)   The particular requirements of this chapter which prevent the
proposed use or construction;
         (c)   The characteristics of the subject property which prevent
compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
         (d)   The minimum reduction of the requirements of this chapter which
would be necessary to permit the proposed use or construction;
         (e)   The particular hardship which would result if the particular
requirements of this chapter were applied to the subject property; and
         (f)   If the variance is part of an application for commercial,
industrial, or multiple-family residential site plan approval, all of the
submittal requirements for a site plan, §
151.040(B) shall also apply.
      (2)   A public hearing shall be set, advertised, and conducted by the
City Planning Commission in accordance with §
151.042.
      (3)   Within the time period established by M.S. § 15.99, as it may be
amended from time to time, the City Planning Commission shall render its
decision recommending granting or denying the variance. Such decision shall be
accompanied by findings of fact and shall refer to any exhibits containing
plans and specifications for the proposed variance. Such plans and
specifications shall remain a part of the permanent records of the City
Planning Commission. The findings of fact shall specify the reason or reasons
for granting or denying the variance. The terms of relief granted shall be
specifically set forth in a conclusion or statement separate from the findings
of fact.
   (C)   Appeals. A decision of the Planning Commission acting as the Board of
Appeals and Adjustments is final subject to appeal to the City Council and the
right of a later judicial review. Appeals to the Council of a decision of the
Planning Commission acting as the Board of Appeals and Adjustments shall be
decided within the time period established by M.S. § 15.99, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (D)   Simple majority required. Motions on variances require a simple
majority of the City Council for passage based upon the recommendation Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 151.033) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.039 ORDINANCE AMENDMENTS AND LAND REZONINGS.
   (A)   Authority. This chapter and the zoning district map may be amended
from time to time by ordinance duly enacted by the City Council; provided,
however, that no such amendment shall be enacted except in accordance with the
procedures of §
151.042 Public Hearings.
   (B)   Initiation. Proposed amendments or rezonings may be initiated by the
City Council, by the Planning Commission, or by any one or more owners of real
estate in the area to be affected by the amendment or rezoning or by the owner
of an enforceable option to purchase property in the area affected by the
amendment or rezoning.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   When any proposed amendment or rezoning is initiated by the City
Council, the Council shall transmit its proposal to the Planning Commission for
a public hearing and report thereon.
      (2)   When any proposed amendment or rezoning is initiated by an owner or
owners of real estate in the city, an application for such amendment or
rezoning, addressed to the City Council, shall be filed with the City
Administrator. A nonrefundable application fee, established from time to time
by the City Council by ordinance to cover administrative costs, shall accompany
the application. The application shall be in such form and contain such
information as shall be prescribed from time to time by the Planning
Commission, but shall in all instances contain the following information:
         (a)   The applicant’s name and address;
         (b)   The precise wording of any proposed amendment to the text of
this chapter; and
         (c)   In the case of a rezoning:
            1.   A legal description and street address of the property
proposed to be reclassified;
            2.   The name and address of the property owner or owners of the
property;
            3.   The present zoning classification and existing uses of the
property to be reclassified;
            4.   The area of the property proposed to be reclassified, stated
in square feet or acres, or fraction thereof; and
            5.   A map clearly showing the property proposed to be rezoned, its
present zoning classification, existing uses, and its initial use under the
proposed zoning and, if deemed necessary by the Zoning Administrator, a land
survey will be required.
      (3)   A public hearing shall be set, advertised, and conducted by the
Planning Commission in accordance with §
151.042.
      (4)   Following the conclusion of the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall transmit to the City Council its recommendation in the form of
a written report. Such report shall be accompanied by the findings of fact
specifying the reasons for the recommendation.
      (5)   The City Council shall make a decision on the amendment within the
time period established by M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (6)   The chapter may be amended by a simple majority of the Council,
except that the adoption or amendment of any portion of this chapter which
changes all or part of the existing classification of a zoning district from
residential to either commercial or industrial requires a two-thirds majority
vote of all members of the Council.
      (7)   The City Council may apply a condition to a rezoning that would
revert the site to the previous zoning classification if substantial
development activity has not commenced on the site within two years of the date
of rezoning approval.
(Prior Code, § 151.034) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.040 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Generally. The City Council declares it necessary and appropriate to
require site plan approval of development in certain zoning districts to
preserve and promote attractive, well-planned stable urban conditions. This
includes all proposed multiple-family buildings (three or more units),
commercial developments, and industrial developments. Site plan approval by the
Zoning Administrator and/or the City Engineer must be obtained before a zoning
permit is issued. True and accurate representation of the following
requirements are the responsibility of the applicant.
   (B)   Application for site plan approval.
      (1)   Applications for site plan approval shall be on a form provided by
the Zoning Administrator and shall include the established processing fee
established by the Council by ordinance. In all cases, the site plan shall
contain:
         (a)   Name of project;
         (b)   Location of project, including a vicinity map;
         (c)   Name and mailing address of developer/owner;
         (d)   Name, telephone number, and mailing address of the project
engineer and/or architect;
         (e)   Date of plan preparation;
         (f)   North point and graphic scale;
         (g)   Boundary line of project site with dimensions. All site plans
shall be drawn at an engineering scale (such as 1 inch = 40 feet); and
         (h)   A registered land survey if deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (2)   The site plan shall also contain the following features, both
existing and proposed, drawn by a registered engineer, architect, landscape
architect, and/or land surveyor:
         (a)   Topographic contours at a minimum interval of two feet;
         (b)   Adjacent and on-site streets and street rights-of-way;
         (c)   Utilities and utility right-of-way easements, man-hole rim
elevations, and pipe elevations and sizes;
         (d)   Buildings, signs, and light poles;
         (e)   Parking and loading facilities;
         (f)   Surface water collection and conveyance features including
arrows indicating the direction of surface water flow over the map of proposed
contours;
         (g)   Surface water ponds, ditches, and wetlands;
         (h)   Sidewalks and bicycle paths;
         (i)   The location of tree cover, including the designation of trees
of 15 inches in diameter or more;
         (j)   Fences and retaining walls;
         (k)   Shielded exterior refuse collection areas;
         (l)   Landscaping, including species and minimum size (refer to §
151.105 Special Provisions—Landscaping);
         (m)   Traffic flow on- and off-site;
         (n)   Height above mean sea level of buildings;
         (o)   Project data including square footage of buildings and number of
parking spaces;
         (p)   A description of proposed exterior finish materials; and
         (q)   The current zoning of the property and a listing of all required
federal, state, and city permits and the status of such applications.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator may require the developer to submit the
following items if he or she feels that they are important for adequate
understanding of the project by the Planning Commission, City Council, and/or
public:
         (a)   Aerial photograph(s) of the site;
         (b)   Cross-section drawings;
         (c)   Perspective sketch(es); and/or
         (d)   A professional analysis of traffic impact or other
infrastructure impact (such as storm sewer, water, and sanitary sewer).
   (C)   Review and recommendation by the Planning Commission. In considering
applications for site plan approval under this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator shall consider the following: how the site plan relates to
conditions both on and off the site, conformance with the city’s comprehensive
plan, the impact of the site plan on the existing and anticipated traffic and
parking conditions, building location and height, sanitary sewer, water,
signage, setbacks, and related matters. Applications for site plan approval
shall be either granted or denied within the time period established by M.S. §
15.99, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   Developer’s/builder’s agreement. Prior to issuing a zoning permit, the
Zoning Administrator may require the developer/builder to sign an agreement
with the city which assures that particular elements of the site plan approval
application, either proposed by the applicant or imposed by the Zoning
Administrator, City Engineer, or City Planning Commission, shall be carried
out. The Planning Commission may require the applicant to post a performance
bond or irrevocable letter of credit to ensure that certain improvements are
implemented.
(Prior Code, § 151.035) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.041 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Authority. The City Council may, after review and recommendation by
the Planning Commission, grant or deny a conditional use permit with a simple
majority vote.
   (B)   Standards and conditions for conditional uses.
      (1)   A conditional use permit may be granted for the following uses
only:
         (a)   Any use specifically listed as a conditional use in the
regulations applicable to the district in which it is specifically located;
         (b)   Planned development in accordance with the provisions of §§
151.080 et seq. of this chapter in any district; and
         (c)   Any of the following uses in any residential or commercial
district:
            1.   Schools;
            2.   Community recreation buildings and fields;
            3.   Elderly high rise;
            4.   Relocation of any structure larger than ten feet by 12 feet.
         (d)   Any of the following uses in any district: buildings,
facilities, or premises of public service corporations to be used for public
utility purposes necessary to the public convenience or welfare.
      (2)   A conditional use permit for the uses listed in  §§
151.080 through
151.091  shall be granted only if evidence is presented to establish:
         (a)   That the proposed building or use at the particular location
requested is necessary or desirable to provide a service or a facility which is
in the interest of the public convenience and will contribute to the general
welfare of the neighborhood or community;
         (b)   That the proposed building or use will not have a substantial or
undue adverse effect upon adjacent property, the character of the neighborhood,
traffic conditions, utility facilities, and other matters affecting the public
health, safety, and general welfare; and
         (c)   That the proposed building or use will be designed, arranged,
and operated so as to permit the development and use of neighboring property in
accordance with the applicable district regulations.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   (a)   An application for a conditional use permit shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator. A nonrefundable application fee, as
established from time to time by the City Council by ordinance, to cover
administrative costs and costs of the hearing shall accompany each application.
         (b)   Except as specifically excused by the Planning Commission, the
application shall contain the following information and be accompanied by the
following submissions, as well as such additional information and submissions
as may be prescribed by rule of the Planning Commission:
            1.   Legal description of the tract of land;
            2.   Evidence that the applicant has sufficient control over the
tract to effectuate the proposed plan, including a statement of all the
ownership and beneficial interests in the tract of land and the proposed
development;
            3.   Evidence of the financial capability of the applicant to
complete the proposed development;
            4.   Plans drawn to convenient scale, showing the current zoning
classification and existing land use of the tract, and those tracts directly
adjacent to it, and any significant topographical or physical features and all
easements of the tract, and adjacent tracts. The Zoning Administrator may
require a certified survey at his or her discretion at the time of application;
locating lot corners is the applicant’s responsibility;
            5.   Three copies of preliminary plans, drawn to a convenient
scale, showing the same information as is required for site plan approval;
            6.   When the proposed development includes provisions for common
open space or recreational facilities, a statement describing the provision
that is to be made for the care and maintenance of such open space or
recreational facilities. If it is proposed that such open space be owned and/or
maintained by any entity other than a governmental authority, copies of the
proposed articles of incorporation and by-laws of such entity shall be
submitted;
            7.   Copies of any restrictive covenants that are to be recorded
with respect to property included in the proposed development;
            8.   When the development is to be constructed in stages or units,
a schedule for the development of such stages or units shall be submitted
stating the approximate beginning and completion date for each such stage or
unit. No such stage or unit shall have a residential density that exceeds by
more than 25% of the proposed residential density of the entire development.
When a development provides for common open space, the total area of common
open space provided at any stage of development shall, at a minimum, bear the
same relationship to the total open space to be provided in the entire
development as the stages or units completed or under development bear to the
entire development.
            9.   When it deems it to be necessary, the Planning Commission may
require a traffic survey (conducted at the expense of the applicant) setting
out and analyzing the effect that the development will have upon traffic in the
streets and thoroughfares adjacent to and in the proposed development;
            10.   A statement showing the relationship of the proposed
development to the comprehensive plan and future land use plan of the city; and
            11.   A statement as to why the proposed development is to be
designed, arranged, and operated in order to permit the development and use of
neighboring property in accordance with the applicable district regulations.
      (2)   A public hearing shall be set, advertised, and conducted by the
Planning Commission in accordance with §
151.042.
      (3)   (a)   After the conclusion of the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall transmit to the City Council a written report containing its
recommendations concerning the proposed conditional use. Such report shall be
accompanied by findings of fact specifying the reasons for the recommendation.
         (b)   The City Council may table the matter for up to 60 days to
obtain more information on which to base its decision. Conditional use
applications not acted upon within that time shall be considered to be
approved.
         (c)   In any case where a conditional use permit is sought for the
purpose of establishing a planned development district, the report of the
Planning Commission shall contain specific findings as to the degree of
compliance of the proposed development with the standards made applicable to
planned developments by §§
151.080 et seq. of this chapter and as to the degree to which the proposed
development advances the purposes for which planned developments may be
approved.
      (4)   (a)   Except in the case of an application for a conditional use
permit to establish a planned development district, which shall be governed by
§§
151.075 et seq., the City Council shall, within the time established by M.S. §
15.99, as it may be amended from time to time, of the receipt of the report of
the Planning Commission, grant or deny the conditional use or refer the matter
back to the Planning Commission for further consideration.
         (b)   The City Council shall not grant a conditional use unless it
finds that the standards of §§
151.075 et seq. of this chapter have been satisfied.
      (5)   One of the conditions of a conditional use permit is that it shall
be valid only for a period of six months, (except when issued specifically for
a planned development, in which case the period of validity shall extend to 18
months), after which the same shall be revoked in the event that any proposed
construction, alteration, or operation has not been started in accordance with
the terms of such permit.
      (6)   A certified copy of each conditional use permit shall be filed with
the County Recorder. The conditional use permit shall include the legal
description of the property included. A conditional use permit shall remain in
effect as long as the conditions agreed upon are observed, but the Council may
in the future enact or amend this chapter to change the status of conditional
uses.
(Prior Code, § 151.036) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.042 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Setting of hearings. For all requests brought before the City Council
or the Planning Commission for which a public hearing is required by this
chapter, the body in charge of conducting the hearing shall select a reasonable
time and place for the public hearing on the request, or delegate such
authority to the City Administrator.
   (B)   Notice of hearings.
      (1)   Notice of public hearings shall be given not more than 30 days and
not less than ten days before the hearing by publication at least once in one
or more official newspaper of the city. Such notice shall include the time and
place of the hearing and a description of the contents of the request to be
heard to which the request applies.
      (2)   In addition to the general notice of the public, separate notice by
letter shall be required for all property owners residing within the area, and
for a distance of 350 feet from the boundaries of such area, where a request
concerning property will be the subject of the hearing. Such notices shall be
sent by the City Council, and addresses taken from current city records shall
be deemed sufficient for such notification.
   (C)   Conduct of hearing. Any person may appear and testify at a public
hearing, either in person or by a duly authorized agent or attorney, or by
written, signed letter.
(Prior Code, § 151.037) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.043 FEES, CHARGES, AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and
expenses and a collection procedure for zoning permits, conditional use
permits, appeal application, and other matters pertaining to this chapter. This
schedule of fees is as follows.
      (1)   Zoning permits.
 
Cost of Improvement Fee
$0 to $1,000        $15
$1,001 and over     $1 for each $1,000 increment
 
      (2)   Variance applications. Application fee: $200.
      (3)   Conditional use permit applications. Application fee: $75.
      (4)   Rezoning applications. Application fee: $75.
      (5)   Site plan reviews. $50.
   (B)   No application, permit, certificate, or variance shall be issued
unless or until such costs, charges, fees, or expenses have been paid in full,
nor shall any action be taken on proceedings before the Planning Commission
unless or until preliminary charges and fees have been paid in full.
   (C)   If a dispute arises over a specific fee, the amount of the fee must be
deposited and held in escrow, and the person aggrieved by the fee may appeal to
district court. The process for reviewing the application, permit, certificate,
or variance shall proceed as if the fee were paid. An approved application,
permit, certificate, or variance shall be effective even though the fee is
being held in escrow. After the district court’s determination of the
appropriate fee, the fee shall be paid out of the amount held in escrow and the
balance, if any, returned to the appellant.
(Prior Code, § 151.038) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.055 COMPLIANCE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no building, structure, or land shall
hereafter be used or occupied, and no building or structure or part thereof
shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally
altered for the district in which it is located without complying with the
provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.050) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.056 BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No building or other structure shall hereafter be erected or altered
to exceed in height, to accommodate or house a greater number of families, to
occupy a greater percentage of lot area, to have narrower or smaller rear
yards, side yards, or other open spaces, than herein required, or in any other
manner be contrary to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Premises identification: approved numbers or addresses shall be
provided for all new buildings in such a position as to be plainly visible and
legible from the street or road fronting the property. All buildings require a
minimum height of four-inch numbers.
(Prior Code, § 151.051) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.057 AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No part of a yard, or other open space, or of street parking or
loading space required about or in connection with any building for the purpose
of complying with this chapter shall be included as part of a yard, open space,
or off-street parking or loading space similarly required for any other
building, except as modified hereinafter.
   (B)   No yard or lot existing at the time of passage of this chapter shall
be reduced in size or area below the minimum requirements set forth herein.
Yards or lots created after the effective date of this chapter shall meet at
least the minimum requirements established by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.052) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.058 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements, adopted for the promotion of the
public health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, or general welfare.
Wherever the requirements of this chapter are in variance with the requirements
of this chapter or are in variance with the requirements of any lawfully
adopted rules, regulations, ordinances, deed restrictions, or covenants, the
most restrictive or that imposing the higher standards shall govern.
(Prior Code, § 151.053) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.059 DWELLING ON ANY LOT OR RECORD.
   In any district where single-family dwellings are permitted, a one-family
detached dwelling may be erected on any lot of official record at the effective
date of this chapter irrespective of its area or width, provided the applicable
yard and other open space requirements are satisfied or modified by the City
Council as set forth in §
151.039.
(Prior Code, § 151.054) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.060 HEIGHT LIMITATIONS NOT APPLICABLE.
   The height limitations stipulated in this chapter shall not apply to the
following.
   (A)   Essential service structures, architectural features, and the like.
Church spires, belfries, cupolas and domes, monuments, water towers, fire and
hose towers, observation towers, transmission towers, chimneys, smoke stacks,
flag poles, radio and television towers, masts and aerials and parapet walls
extending not more than four feet above the limiting height of the building.
   (B)   Places of public assembly. Places of public assembly in churches,
schools, and other permitted public and semi-public buildings, provided that
they are located on the first floor of such buildings; provided, that for each
two feet by which the height of such building exceeds the maximum height
otherwise permitted in the district, its side and rear yards shall be increased
in width or depth by an additional foot over the side and rear yards required
for the highest building otherwise permitted in the district and further
provided that the Planning Commission shall find that such additional height
will not be materially detrimental to surrounding property.
   (C)   Elevator penthouse and the like. Elevator penthouses (elevator
machinery loft), monitors, and scenery lofts, provided no linear dimension of
any such structure exceeds 50% of the corresponding street lot line frontage.
Fire towers, hose towers, cooling towers, grain elevators, industrial process
towers, gas holders, or other structures, where a manufacturing process
requires a greater height shall be excepted.
(Prior Code, § 151.055) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.061 YARD AND FRONTAGE LIMITATIONS NOT APPLICABLE.
   In any district where front yards are required and where 40% or more of the
frontage on one side of a street between two intersecting streets or around the
circumference of a cul-de-sac is developed with buildings that have a front
yard that is greater or less than the required front yard in the district, no
building shall project beyond the average yard so established.
(Prior Code, § 151.056) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.062 YARD SPACE, GENERAL.
   (A)   Any building, structure, or use hereafter erected altered or
established shall comply with the yard space requirements of the district in
which it is located, except as specified below. The required yard space for any
building, structure, or use shall be contained on the same lot as the building,
structure, or use and such required yard space shall fall entirely upon land in
a district or districts in which the principal use is permitted.
   (B)   Any required yard space shall be open from 30 inches above the ground
to the sky except as specified elsewhere in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.057) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.063 PLACEMENT OF SINGLE- AND TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES ON LARGE
LOTS.
   In any Residence District where a single- or two-family residential
structure is to be developed on large lots which could later be re-subdivided
and still meet the dimensional and area requirements for another lot of the
district in which it is situated, such structure must be placed in a manner
which would permit such re-subdivision. Accessory uses shall be exempted from
this requirement.
(Prior Code, § 151.058) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.064 YARD SPACE ENCROACHMENTS; PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS.
   The following projections may be permitted into any front, rear, or exterior
side yard adjoining a street lot line:
   (A)   Cornices, sills, eaves, and other ornamental features to a distance of
not more than two feet six inches;
   (B)   Fire escapes to a distance of not more than four feet six inches;
   (C)   Decks, in residential districts, to a distance of not more than one-
half the distance into yards. No easement encroachments permitted;
   (D)   Bay windows and chimneys and fireplaces to a distance of not more than
three feet, provided that such features do not occupy, in the aggregate, more
than one-third the length of the building wall on which they are located; and
   (E)   Retaining walls and landscaping timbers within easements by
conditional use permit.
(Prior Code, § 151.059) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.065 MORE THAN ONE PRINCIPAL BUILDING ON A LOT.
   Not more than one principal building shall be located on a lot in Residence
Districts R-1 and R-2 except as provided in §§
151.075 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 151.060) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.066 HOUSING PROJECTS UTILIZING THE “ZERO LOT LINE” CONCEPT.
   Every development proposal which is designed or later modified so as to
place the principal structure abutting a side property line in order to have
only one open side yard or less, must file with the Zoning Administrator a
signed copy of the recorded covenant with filing information assuring access
through the adjacent yard for purposes of repairs and general maintenance and/
or common wall construction. In some cases, the side yard could be the rear
yard.
(Prior Code, § 151.061) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.067 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No accessory buildings shall be erected or located within any required
side yard setback, except as provided in §§
151.083 and
151.084  for R-1 and R-2 Districts.
   (B)   Utility buildings in residential districts shall not exceed 192 square
feet (such as 12 feet by 16 feet) and shall be six feet or more from all lot
lines of adjoining lots, and shall not be located within a utility easement.
   (C)   No accessory building or garage per single-family homes shall occupy
more than 25% of a rear yard, nor exceed 1,000 square feet of floor area.
Garages which exceed the aforesaid maximum may be allowed with a conditional
use permit.
   (D)   No more than one utility building/structure shall be permitted on each
lot.
   (E)   No accessory building or use shall be constructed or developed on a
lot prior to the time of the principal building to which it is accessory,
except by conditional use permit.
   (F)   Accessory buildings in all districts shall be located to the rear of
the principal building.
   (G)   No accessory building in a commercial or industrial district shall
exceed the height of the principal building except by conditional use permit.
   (H)   Utility sheds in residential districts which have floor areas greater
than 120 square feet (such as ten feet by 12 feet) shall have a floating
concrete slab.
   (I)   Pole buildings are allowed only by conditional use permit. Pole
buildings shall be permitted only if siding and roofing in building materials
are similar to the principal structure.
   (J)   Unattached garages require direct access by public-way or, in cases of
interior lots, a side yard drive setback dimension no less than six feet
between the property line and the principal structure.
   (K)   No accessory building shall be used for dwelling purposes.
   (L)   Swimming pools or game courts designed for private use shall be
allowed if compliance with other zoning provisions is met.
   (M)   An accessory building, including, but not limited to, garages,
carports, and breezeways attached to the principal building on a lot shall be
made structurally a part thereof and shall comply in all respects with the
height, yard, and area requirements of this chapter applicable to the principal
building.
   (N)   Buildings that are constructed with flexible temporary material (i.e.,
canvass and the like), and are in place for a period over 12 months are
required to obtain a conditional use permit.
   (O)   PLAYHOUSES, defined as a small model of a house, or a structure used
as a small model house, that children can play inside of, are considered an
accessory building.
(Prior Code, § 151.062) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998; Ord. 226, passed 5-9-2005;
Ord. 235, passed - -2007)
§ 151.068 FENCES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish and to promote
the public health, safety, and welfare, encourage an aesthetic environment, and
allow for privacy, while maintaining access to light and air by regulating the
location, height, type, and maintenance of all fences.
   (B)   Permit required. No person, firm, or corporation shall construct or
cause to be constructed or erected within the city any fence without first
securing a zoning permit.
   (C)   Prohibited fences. The following fences are prohibited:
      (1)   Barbed wire fences (with the exception of the agriculture
district);
      (2)   Electric fences (with the exception of the agriculture district);
      (3)   Chicken wire;
      (4)   Fences with broken glass or other sharp points imbedded;
      (5)   Spiked fences; and
      (6)   Any other type of fence that could result in injuries to persons
climbing over.
   (D)   Exceptions for hazardous fencing. Hazardous or dangerous fences, such
as those listed in division (C) above, shall only be permitted in the city for
the following uses:
      (1)   Public utility structures (at least eight feet above grade level);
and
      (2)   Communication support structures (at least eight feet above grade
level).
   (E)   Fence requirements in residential districts.
      (1)   Front yard. Fences located in the front yard shall not exceed four
feet in height. Opaque fences shall not exceed three feet in height.
      (2)   Corner side yard. Fences located in the corner side yard shall not
exceed four feet in height. Opaque fences shall not exceed three feet in
height. In addition, the maximum height may be increased to six feet beginning
at the point of intersection of the corner sidewall and the rear wall of the
principal structure to the rear lot line. For the purpose of this section, open
decks and porches shall not be considered part of the principal structure.
      (3)   Interior side yard. Fences located in the interior side yard shall
not exceed six feet in height.
      (4)   Rear yard. Fences located in the rear yard shall not exceed six
feet in height.
   (F)   Fence requirements for nonresidential districts. No fence shall exceed
eight feet in height along any side of the yard.
   (G)   General requirements.
      (1)   No fence shall be constructed in a manner that would block the view
of vehicular traffic or restrict snow plowing of streets.
      (2)   No fence shall create problems with right-of-way maintenance or
snow accumulation.
      (3)   All fences must be placed no less than two feet inside the property
line. It is the owner’s responsibility to verify the location of the property
lines.
      (4)   It is suggested to have a surveyor locate property lines before
installing fences. The city does not have surveyors on staff to perform this
service.
      (5)   The side of the fence considered to be the face (the finished side)
shall face adjoining property.
      (6)   Every fence shall be maintained in a condition of reasonable repair
and shall not be allowed to become and remain in a condition of disrepair or
danger, or constitute a public or private nuisance. Any such fence, which is,
or has become dangerous to the public safety, health, or welfare, is a public
nuisance.
      (7)   If the fence is in an easement, the city or utility company is not
responsible for repair or replacement of any fence that is removed for purpose
of work or maintenance of the easement.
      (8)   No fence shall obstruct free access to any fire hydrant, water
meter, electric meter, natural gas meter, or public sidewalk.
      (9)   Link fences shall be erected in such a manner that the barbed end
is at the bottom of the fence.
      (10)   No fence shall be constructed in such a manner as to impede or
alter the natural surface water drainage of the property upon which the fence
is constructed or any adjoining property.
      (11)   Any fence erected around a recreational activity, such as a tennis
court or a baseball backstop, may exceed the height requirements set forth in
this section.
      (12)   Permanent swimming pools must be protected by a fence at least
four feet high, with a self-closing, self-latching lockable gate, built so that
a four-inch sphere cannot pass through.
      (13)   Snow fences are permitted only between October 15 and April 15.
   (H)   Non-conforming fences. No existing fence not permitted by this section
in the district within which it is located, except when required to do so by
law or ordinance, shall be enlarged, extended, reconstructed, or structurally
altered unless such fence is changed to one permitted in that district.
Maintenance of a non-conforming fence will be allowed, however, when this
includes necessary repairs and incidental alternations which do not expand or
intensify the non-conforming fence.
   (I)   Variance requests. Should an applicant request a permit for a fence
that does not meet the requirements listed in division (G), they may request a
variance. As part of the variance, the applicant shall explain in writing how
the proposed fence does not meet the general requirements of division (G), and
why those requirements cannot be met.
(Prior Code, § 151.063) (Ord. 223, passed 4-14-2003)
§ 151.069 MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Maximum occupancy. The maximum occupancy of any dwelling unit shall
not exceed the requirements of this section. For the first occupancy, there
shall be at least 150 square feet of floor space and there shall be at least
100 square feet of floor space for each additional occupancy thereof, with said
floor space to be calculated on the basis of total habitable room area.
Bathrooms, water closet compartments, laundries, furnace rooms, pantries,
kitchenettes, utility rooms of less than 50 square feet of floor space, foyers,
communicating corridors, stairways, closets, storage spaces, workshops, and
hobby and recreational areas shall be excluded from the calculation of total
habitable room area.
   (B)   Nuisance. The following shall be defined as a nuisance: exceeding the
maximum occupancy in any dwelling unit.
   (C)   Ordinance adopted. City code ordinance 222 entitled “General
provisions and definitions applicable to the entire city code including penalty
for violation” are hereby adopted in their entirety, by reference, as though
repeated verbatim herein.
(Ord. 151.064, passed 4-9-2012)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND ZONING MAP
§ 151.080 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS AND PROVISIONS FOR OFFICIAL ZONING
MAP.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the city is hereby divided into
districts, as shown on the official zoning map, which, together with all
explanatory matter thereof, is hereby adopted by reference and declared to be
part of this chapter. The districts shall be known as:
      (1)   AG Agricultural District;
      (2)   R-1 One-Family Residential District;
      (3)   R-2 Multiple-Family Residential District;
      (4)   B-1 Central Business District;
      (5)   B-2 Highway Commercial District; and
      (6)   M-1 Industrial District.
   (B)   The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
Mayor, attested to by the City Administrator and bearing the seal of the city
under the following words: “This is to certify that this is the official zoning
map referred to in §§
151.075 et seq. of chapter number 151 of the City of Hector”, together with the
date of adoption of this chapter. The zoning ordinance and official zoning map
shall be kept on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Any unauthorized change of the official zoning map of whatever kind by
person or persons shall be considered a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   All territories which may hereafter be annexed to the city shall be
considered as being in the R-1, One-Family Residential District, until an
amendment to this chapter shall place annexed land in a different zoning
district. The Planning Commission shall review the zoning classification of any
annexed land and shall report thereon to the City Council giving their
recommendations as to the proper classification.
   (E)   Whenever any, street, alley, or other public way is vacated by
official action of the City Council, the zoning district adjoining each side of
such street, alley, or public way shall be automatically extended to the center
of such vacation and all area included in the vacation shall then and
henceforth be subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
   (F)   (1)   Establishment of service districts. Pursuant to the authority
granted by M.S. § 272.67, the city hereby divides the area within its municipal
limits into an urban service district and a rural service district constituting
separate taxing districts for the purpose of all municipal property taxes
except those levied for the payment of bonds and judgments and interest
thereon.
      (2)   Urban service district. The urban service district shall include
all land within the boundaries of the city which are not included in the rural
service district established by under this ordinance.
      (3)   Rural service district.
         (a)   The rural service district shall include only such unplatted
lands, which need not be contiguous to one another, as in the judgment of the
City Council at the time of adoption of this ordinance are: rural in character;
are not developed for commercial, industrial, or urban residential purposes;
are more than two and one-half acres in area; abut the township boundary on at
least one side; and, are not benefitted to the same degree as other lands by
municipal services financed by general taxation.
         (b)   The City Council may in the future, by amendment to this
chapter, designate other lands (including lands outside the city which, if
annexed) shall be included within the rural service district.
      (4)   Lands included within the rural service district. The following
lands are designated to be included in the rural service district of the city.
      (5)   Transfer from rural service district to urban service district.
Whenever any parcel of land, owned by one person or by two or more persons
jointly or in common at the time of its inclusion in the rural service
district, is platted, in whole or in part, and whenever application is made for
a permit for the construction of a commercial, industrial, or urban residential
development or improvement to be situated on such parcel or any part thereof,
the board or officer approving such plat or building permit shall report this
to the City Council, which shall make and enter a resolution transferring such
parcel from the rural service district to the urban service district. The term
“improvement” shall include the provision of municipal services such as sewer,
water, streets, or the like. Grading of land shall not be considered as an
improvement, providing that such grading is limited to that required to
minimize water drainage problems, and further provided such graded areas are
placed into agricultural use or reseeded within one year.
      (6)   Benefit ratio; tax rate.
         (a)   It is the judgment of the City Council that the approximate
ratio that exists between the benefits resulting from the tax supported
municipal services to parcels of land of like market value, situated in the
rural service district and in the urban service district, respectively, is one
to four and a benefit ratio of one to four is hereby established.
         (b)   Taxes levied for payments of bonds and judgments and interest
thereon shall be in addition to such tax.
         (c)   The benefit ratio may be changed by amendment to this chapter;
however, in no event shall the tax rate for the rural service district be less
than what the tax rate for such parcel would be if taxed by the adjacent
township to which the parcel is located.
      (7)   Annual review. Each year the City Council shall:
         (a)   Review the status of all lands in the rural service district to
determine whether such lands continue to qualify for inclusion in said rural
service district; and
         (b)   Review the tax ratio applicable to such lands as determined
under division (F)(6) above.
      (8)   Services provided. Except for fire, police, and planning services,
the city will provide no other services to the lands in the rural service
district beyond those customarily provided by the adjacent township to which
the lands are located.
(Prior Code, § 151.075) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998; Ord. passed 6-9-2014)
§ 151.081 RULES FOR INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts, as shown on the
official zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
right-of-way lines of streets, highways, or alleys shall be construed to follow
such centerlines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following such lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated approximately following city limits shall be
construed as following the city limits.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as following railroad lines shall be construed to
be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Boundaries indicated as following rivers and streams should be
construed to follow the approximate centerline of such river or stream, and
should be construed as moving with the actual centerline.
   (F)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following section lines, quarter
section lines, or quarter- quarter section lines shall be construed as
following such lines.
   (G)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to, or extensions of, features
indicated in divisions (A) through (F) above shall be so construed. Distances
not specifically indicated on the official zoning map shall be determined by
the scale of the map.
   (H)   Where the street or property layout existing on the ground is at
variance with that shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (A) through (F) above, the City Council shall
interpret the district boundaries in accordance with  §§
151.080 through
151.091 .
   (I)   Where a district boundary line divides a lot which was in single
ownership at the time of passage of this chapter, the Planning Commission may
permit as a special consideration, the extension of the regulations for either
portion of the lot not to exceed 50 feet beyond the district line into the
remaining portion of the lot.
(Prior Code, § 151.076) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.082 RULES FOR STRUCTURES IN DISTRICTS.
   For all principal structures, including manufactured homes, permitted in the
R-1 and R-2 Districts, the following shall apply.
   (A)   The minimum width of the main portion of all principal dwellings,
including manufactured homes, shall be not less than 24 feet, as measured
across the narrowest portion. Width measurement shall not take into account
overhang or other projections.
   (B)   All principal dwellings, including manufactured homes, shall have at
least 836 square feet of habitable interior room excluding garage and basement.
   (C)   All principal dwellings, including manufactured homes, and principal
structures shall be placed on a permanent continuous perimeter masonry,
concrete, or wood foundation that meets the requirements of the State Building
Code and should be insulated in accordance with the State of Minnesota Energy
Codes. Siding must be attached to the home for the entire circumference of the
structure and shall lap over the foundation by a minimum of one inch with eves/
sofit 12-inch overhang and shall have a roof pitch or angle of at least 4/12 or
greater with shingles or tile.
   (D)   Principal dwellings, including manufactured homes, shall have a roof
of gable or hip design and be covered with a city approved roofing material.
(Prior Code, § 151.077) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998; Ord. 232, passed 6-18-2007)
§ 151.083 MANUFACTURED PRINCIPAL DWELLINGS.
   (A)   Manufactured homes must provide the manufacturer’s approved foundation
drawings as approved by the Commissioner of Administration. Homes are not
permitted to remove the frames permitted by the State Building Code.
      (1)   Manufactured homes must be those constructed after June 15, 1976,
and must bear the HUD certification seal.
      (2)   Tongues on all manufactured homes shall be removed.
      (3)   Data plate and other information for the following are required for
manufactured homes:
         (a)   Thirty pound roof load design;
         (b)   Zone 2 heating design;
         (c)   Adequate furnace and water heater design to include the
substructure. Option - separate heating supply for substructure;
         (d)   Approved tap-in locations for substructure water service;
         (e)   Three inch vent through roof location for substructure per the
state’s Department of Health;
         (f)   Electric interlocked smoke detector schematic; and
         (g)   Manufacturer’s design drawings for stairway location.
      (4)   The following alterations of manufactured homes requires
manufacturer’s approval and the alterations must be consistent with the
provisions of the State Building Code and the Manufactured Home Building Code:
         (a)   Relocation of furnace and/or water heater; and
         (b)   Alteration of any structural components including roof, walls,
and floor system, attaching garages, and the like.
   (B)   A written statement from the applicant clarifying the above is
required.
(Prior Code, § 151.078) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.084 AG AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The AG Agricultural District is intended to provide farming
areas for the development of one- and two-family homes and complementary uses
on larger parcels of land.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses. The following uses are permitted, as
regulated herein, without special application requirements or conditions
attached:
      (1)   One- and two-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   General farming;
      (3)   Truck gardens and nurseries;
      (4)   Forest preserves and game refuge areas;
      (5)   Churches, schools (private and public), and community buildings;
      (6)   Parks and playgrounds;
      (7)   Family daycare;
      (8)   Home occupations; and
      (9)   Temporary buildings or structures and use customarily incidental to
any of the above listed uses when located on the same property.
   (C)   Conditional uses. 
      (1)   Stables and riding academies;
      (2)   Office of a veterinary and animal clinic;
      (3)   Foster homes or group homes not licensed as Class “B” supervised
living facilities;
      (4)   Hospitals, sanitariums, and rest homes;
      (5)   Gun clubs, golf courses, golf driving ranges, race tracks, and
campgrounds;
      (6)   Cemeteries, including animal cemeteries;
      (7)   Raising of furbearing animals or kennels provided no cage or pen
housing such animals is located nearer than 200 feet to any lot lines except
that kennels may be within 100 feet of the lot lines;
      (8)   Airports, landing fields, hangers, masts, and other facilities for
the operation of aircraft;
      (9)   Commercial radio and television towers and transmitters;
      (10)   Sanitary landfills;
      (11)   Migratory labor camps;
      (12)   Utility buildings such as substations, transformer stations, and
relay stations without service or storage yards.
   (D)   Dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum required lot area and dimensions.
 
Minimum Lot Area per Dwelling Minimum Lot Width Minimum Lot Depth
30,000 Sq. Feet               150 feet          200 feet
 
      (2)   Minimum required setbacks, yards, and heights.
 
Front Yard Setback Side Yard Setback Rear Yard Setback Build Height
                                                       35 feet for residential
                                                       buildings
25 feet            25 feet           50 feet           55 feet for any
                                                       nonresidential building
                                                       listed as a permitted
                                                       use
 
(Prior Code, § 151.079) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.085 R-1 ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-1 Residential District is intended to provide
residential areas for development of one-family homes and complementary uses on
larger parcels of land.
   (B)   Permitted principal uses. The following uses are permitted, as
regulated herein, without special application requirements or conditions
attached:
      (1)   One-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Parks and playgrounds;
      (3)   Family daycare;
      (4)   Home occupations;
      (5)   Temporary buildings or structures and use customarily incidental to
any of the above listed uses when located on the same property.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Two-family and three-family houses on a lot of record prior to
January 1, 1993;
      (2)   Golf courses and related facilities;
      (3)   Churches and houses of worship and related facilities;
      (4)   Schools;
      (5)   Seasonal on-site sales (such as Christmas trees);
      (6)   Foster homes or group homes not licensed as Class “B” supervised
living facilities;
      (7)   Licensed day care centers;
      (8)   Hospitals, sanitariums, and rest homes; and
      (9)   Utility buildings such as substations, transformer stations, and
relay stations without service or storage yards.
   (D)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Detached garages not exceeding 1,000 square feet;
      (2)   Utility sheds not exceeding 192 square feet;
      (3)   Gazebo or summer lawn-house; and
      (4)   Permanent pools or game courts designed for private use.
   (E)   Dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Required lot area.
 
Use                  Minimum Lot Area
One-family residence 13,000
                     Corner lot: 10,400 square feet
 
      (2)   Required lot dimensions (feet).
 
Use                  Minimum Lot Width Minimum Lot Depth
One-family residence 100               130
                     Corner lot: 80
 
      (3)   Setbacks, yards, and heights.
         (a)   The above listed setback and yard requirements are subject to
the following additional requirements.
 
Use                  Front Corner Side Interior Side Rear Height
Single-family        25    25          6             25   35
Accessory Structures N/A   N/A         6             6    16
 
         (b)   There shall be a setback of six feet from an alley for all
structures.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage. Lot coverage shall not exceed 30%.
(Prior Code, § 151.080) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.086 R-2 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-2 Multiple-Family Residential District allows single-
family homes and complementary uses on land parcels that are smaller than those
required in the R-1 District. Is also intended to provide areas offering a
broad development range in housing units, yet retain the environment and
character of less intensive residence areas through carefully established bulk
and lot area requirements.
   (B)   Principal uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings, three, four, five, and six-unit buildings,
duplexes, and double bungalows;
      (3)   Parks and playgrounds;
      (4)   Family daycare serving ten or fewer persons; and
(5)   Class “B” supervised living facilities serving six or fewer persons.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   All conditional uses of the R-1 District;
      (2)   Seven-unit to 12-unit buildings;
      (3)   Neighborhood medical/dental clinics and offices, subject to maximum
gross floor area of 5,000 square feet;
      (4)   Business and professional offices, subject to a maximum gross floor
area of 5,000 square feet;
      (5)   Group home facility serving from seven to 16 mentally retarded or
physically handicapped persons, provided there is a lot area of 800 square feet
for each person accommodated;
      (6)   Licensed nursing homes;
      (7)   Private clubs, lodges, and fraternal organizations;
      (8)   Public or quasi-public accredited educational institutions;
      (9)   Mortuaries or funeral homes;
      (10)   Licensed boarding houses for the elderly;
      (11)   Bed and breakfasts; and
      (12)   State licensed manufactured home parks.
   (D)   Accessory uses. All accessory uses of the R-1 District.
   (E)   Dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area and dimensions.
 
Use                  Minimum Lot Area per Minimum Lot Width Minimum Lot Depth
                     Dwelling Unit
Single-family        13,000               100               130
residence            Corner lot: 10,400   Corner lot: 80
Two-family residence 13,000               100               130
                     Corner lot: 10,400   Corner lot: 80
Three or more family 4,000*               None              None
residence
* Does not count area set aside for surface water ponding or wetland
protection.
 
      (2)   Setbacks and heights.
 
Use                        Front Corner Side Interior Side Rear Height
Single-Family Residence    25    25          6             25   35
Two-Family Residence       25    25          10            25   35
4-,6-, or 8-Unit Residence 30    25          15*           35   35
Accessory Buildings        N/A   N/A         6             6    16
Notes:
*Add 6 inches for each foot the average height of the building exceeds 20
feet.
-There shall be a setback of six feet from an alley for all structures.
-The minimum distance between townhouse or four- to eight-family buildings
when the exterior walls are parallel shall be equal to the height of the
exterior wall or 15 feet, whichever is greater. Four- to eight-unit
buildings shall be no closer to one another at any point than 15 feet.
 
   (F)   Parking requirements. Parking shall be provided according to the
regulations of §§
151.105 et seq. Parking areas or circulation drives shall be set back at least
six feet from any lot line.
   (G)   Common wall dwellings. Notwithstanding other provisions of §
151.084, one developer may construct two single-family dwellings with a common
wall and boundary line on which there may be no building setback from the
common boundary, provided:
      (1)   Each lot shall meet all other setback requirements for a multiple-
family dwelling; and
      (2)   Separate services shall be furnished and provided to each dwelling
for sanitary sewer and water.
   (H)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall observe the same
setback requirements established for the multiple residence building. The City
Planning Commission may require common walls for accessory buildings where
common walls will eliminate unsightly and hazardous areas.
(Prior Code, § 151.081) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.087 B-1 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The B-1 Central Business District is intended to allow retail
and service business sites within the central “downtown” of the city.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted, as regulated herein,
without special application requirements or conditions attached. Highly similar
uses not listed may be allowed at the discretion and review of the Planning
Commission and approval of the City Council:
      (1)   Automobile repair and service shops;
      (2)   Bakeries;
      (3)   Banks;
      (4)   Barber shops;
      (5)   Candy and ice cream shops;
      (6)   Convenience food stores;
      (7)   Gas stations;
      (8)   Offices;
      (9)   Postal stations;
      (10)   Drug stores;
      (11)   Book stores;
      (12)   Flower shops;
      (13)   Laundromats and dry cleaning establishments;
      (14)   Shoe repair and sales shops;
      (15)   Food services including grocery stores, fruit, vegetable and meat
markets, supermarkets, restaurants, and delicatessens;
      (16)   Hardware stores;
      (17)   Medical services including clinics, hospitals, rest homes, and
animal clinics;
      (18)   Hair salons;
      (19)   Photographic shops;
      (20)   Funeral homes;
      (21)   Apparel shops;
      (22)   Commercial greenhouses;
      (23)   Public utility buildings;
      (24)   Any similar commercial establishment or professional service or
commercial service not specifically stated or implied elsewhere in this
section;
      (25)   Residence when included as an integral part of the principal
building to be occupied by the owner or his or her employee;
      (26)   Buildings and uses customarily necessary to any of the above uses
which may include the repair, alteration, finishing, assembly, fabrication, or
storage of goods; and
      (27)   Such uses shall not be detrimental either by reason of odor,
smoke, noise, dust, or vibration to the surrounding neighborhood.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Automobile service that includes auto equipment sales, car wash
service, new and used car sales lot, and trailer sales areas;
      (2)   Recreation services including theaters, bowling alleys, pool and
billiard rooms, dance halls, and roller and ice skating rinks;
      (3)   Hotels, motels, private clubs and lodges, wholesale establishments,
taverns, night clubs, on-off liquor stores, trade schools, commercial parking
garages, and ramps;
      (4)   Drive-in restaurants, drive-in banks, and other drive-in services;
and
      (5)   Buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the uses listed
in this section when located on the same property and which will not be
detrimental either by reason of odor, smoke, noise, dust, or vibration to the
surrounding neighborhood.
   (D)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Any accessory use, building, or structure customarily incidental to
a principal use permitted above, and located on the same lot; and
      (2)   Parking and loading facilities, as regulated in §§
151.105 et seq.
   (E)   Dimensional regulations. For uses permitted in B-1 Districts, there
will be no requirements for lot area, height, frontage, lot coverage, yard
sizes, or loading space. For uses requiring conditional uses permits - lot
area, height, frontage, lot coverage, yard size, and loading space shall be
specified by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Other requirements. Refer to §§
151.105 et seq., Special Provisions, for additional regulations pertaining to
the following:
      (1)   Site plan review;
      (2)   Access, parking, and loading;
      (3)   Landscaping and lighting;
      (4)   Fences;
      (5)   Outdoor storage and displays; and
      (6)   Building facade materials.
(Prior Code, § 151.082) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.088 B-2 HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The B-2 Highway Commercial District is intended to allow
wholesale, retail, and service business sites that border near U. S. Highway
212.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted, as regulated herein,
without special application requirements or conditions attached. Highly similar
uses not listed may be allowed at the discretion and review of the Planning
Commission and approval of the City Council:
      (1)   Automobile repair and service shops;
      (2)   Bakeries;
      (3)   Banks;
      (4)   Barber shops;
      (5)   Candy and ice cream shops;
      (6)   Convenience food stores;
      (7)   Gas stations;
      (8)   Offices;
      (9)   Postal stations;
      (10)   Drug stores;
      (11)   Book stores;
      (12)   Medical services including clinics, hospitals, rest homes, and
animal clinics;
      (13)   Flower shops;
      (14)   Laundromats and dry cleaning establishments;
      (15)   Shoe repair and sales shops;
      (16)   Food services including grocery stores, fruit, vegetable and meat
markets, supermarkets, restaurants, and delicatessens;
      (17)   Hardware stores;
      (18)   Hair salons;
      (19)   Photographic shops;
      (20)   Funeral homes;
      (21)   Apparel shops;
      (22)   Commercial greenhouses;
      (23)   Recreation services including theaters, bowling alleys, pool and
billiard rooms, dance halls, and roller and ice skating rinks;
      (24)   Hotels, motels, private clubs and lodges, wholesale
establishments, taverns, night clubs, on-off liquor stores, trade schools, and
commercial parking garages and ramps;
      (25)   Drive-in restaurants, drive-in banks, and other drive-in services;
      (26)   Buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the uses
listed in this section when located on the same property and which will not be
detrimental either by reason of odor, smoke, noise, dust, or vibration to the
surrounding neighborhoods;
      (27)   Lumber yards;
      (28)   Storage buildings;
      (29)   Public utility buildings;
      (30)   Residence when included as an integral part of the principal
building to be occupied by the owner or his or her employees;
      (31)   Automobile service including auto equipment sales, car wash
service, new and used car sales lot, trailer sales areas, gasoline service
stations, and auto repair garages;
      (32)   Recreation services including theaters, bowling alleys, pool and
billiard rooms, dance halls, and roller and ice skating rinks;
      (33)   Hotels, motels, private clubs and lodges, wholesale
establishments, taverns, night clubs, on-off liquor stores, trade schools, and
commercial parking garages and ramps;
      (34)   Drive-in restaurants, drive-in banks, and other drive-in services;
and
      (35)   Buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the uses
listed in this section when located on the same property and which will not be
detrimental either by reason of odor, smoke, noise, dust, or vibration to the
surrounding neighborhood.
   (C)   Conditional use permits.
      (1)   Recreational camping areas; and
      (2)   Truck or bus terminals.
   (D)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Any accessory use, building, or structure customarily incidental to
a principal use permitted above, and located on the same lot;
      (2)   Parking and loading facilities, as regulated in §§
151.105 et seq.; and
      (3)   Signs as regulated in §§
151.105 et seq.
   (E)   Dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Setbacks (feet).
Building Setback From:
Street right-of-way         25
Interior lot line           20
Residential zoning boundary 50
Parking Lot or Circulation Drive Front:
Street right-of-way         10
Interior lot line           6
Residential zoning boundary 10
Accessory Building Setback:
Street right-of-way         20
Interior lot line           6
Residential zoning boundary 50
 
      (2)   Minimum lot requirements (feet).
         (a)   Lot area: 15,000 sq. feet;
         (b)   Minimum lot width: 100; and
         (c)   Minimum lot depth: 150.
   (F)   Other requirements. Refer to §§
151.105 through
151.117 Special Provisions, for additional regulations pertaining to the
following:
      (1)   Site plan review;
      (2)   Access, parking, and loading;
      (3)   Landscaping and lighting;
      (4)   Fences;
      (5)   Outdoor storage and displays; and
      (6)   Building facade materials.
(Prior Code, § 151.083) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.089 M-1 MANUFACTURING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The M-1 Manufacturing District is intended to allow for
development of areas where there is a transition in use occurring, but sites
are not available which would allow for compliance with other district
requirements. Industrial development will be allowed only as a conditional
permitted use to ease land use transition, control development so that it is
compatible with surrounding property, and establish dimensional requirements on
an individual basis.
   (B)   Permitted uses. There are no permitted principal residential uses in
the M-1 District:
      (1)   Any accessory use, building, or structure customarily incidental to
a permitted conditional use listed below and located on the same lot therewith
are not to exceed 320 square feet; and
      (2)   Parking and loading facilities, as regulated in §§
151.095 et seq.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Buildings or land may be used for the following if granted a
conditional use permit, and provided further that any objectionable features
normally associated with these uses, such as those deemed to be hazardous,
offensive, or objectionable by reason of odor, dust, cinders, gas, fumes,
noise, vibration, radiation, refuse matter, or water-carried waste, shall be
ameliorated, controlled, or limited through design, mechanical devices, screen
planting, and/or walls or other measures as specified by the Planning
Commission, and authorized that the use and its day to day activity will not be
unreasonably hazardous, noxious, or offensive.
      (2)   Trade and services.
         (a)   Any retail store, personal service, or business service
establishments, subject to all regulations and such permits and licenses as may
be required by law, including the following and other similar uses;
         (b)   Automobile or trailer sales and service establishments;
         (c)   Building materials and hardware, retail sales/repairs;
         (d)   Business and professional offices;
         (e)   Cultural, entertainment, and recreational establishments;
         (f)   General merchandising, apparel and accessories, and
establishments;
         (g)   Car wash operations, including automated lanes;
         (h)   Catering establishments;
         (i)   Churches and houses of worship and related facilities;
         (j)   Convenience/food goods subject to a maximum of 5,000 square feet
of sales area;
         (k)   Dog kennels;
         (l)   Drive-in or drive-up restaurants, banking facilities, and the
like;
         (m)   Furniture, home furnishing and equipment, sales, and display;
         (n)   Hotels and motels;
         (o)   Any light manufacturing or process including repairs,
assembling, fabricating, altering, converting, finishing, processing, treating,
testing, packaging, or bottling, except any use or process herein after
specifically excluded or which would not be in keeping with the purpose of the
district as stated above. Such determination shall be made by the Zoning
Administrator upon review of the zoning permit application;
         (p)   Motor vehicle body shops;
         (q)   Post offices and other public service operations;
         (r)   Publishing, job printing, and blue printing;
         (s)   Nurseries, garden supply centers;
         (t)   Restaurants;
         (u)   Service stations; automobile repair shops (see §
151.109);
         (v)   Taverns;
         (w)   Trade and business schools;
         (x)   Theaters; and
         (y)   Warehousing, storage, and wholesaling. The storage, handling,
assembly, and distribution of goods and materials for retail, wholesale, or on-
site use.
   (D)   Dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Setbacks (feet).
Principal or Accessory Building Setback From:
Street right-of-way         30
Interior lot line           6
Residential zoning boundary 50
Parking Lot or Circulation Drive From:
Street right-of-way         10
Interior lot line           6
Residential zoning boundary 20
 
      (2)   Minimum lot requirements.
         (a)   No specific limits or requirements.
         (b)   Subject to the approval of the Planning Commission and the City
Council under the conditions of the conditional use.
   (E)   Other requirements. Refer to §§
151.095 et seq., Special Provisions, for additional regulations pertaining to
the following:
      (1)   Site plan review;
      (2)   Access, parking, and loading;
      (3)   Landscaping and lighting;
      (4)   Fences;
      (5)   Outdoor storage and displays; and
      (6)   Building facade materials.
(Prior Code, § 151.084) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.090 MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS.
   (A)   Manufactured home parks.
      (1)   No manufactured home park shall be established except as a
conditional use. The conditional use permit for such shall not be issued except
after a public hearing. Only manufactured home parks licensed by the State
Department of Health under M.S. § 327.15 and Minn. Rules parts 4630.0200 to
4630.2210, as they may be amended from time to time, shall be permitted in the
city and granted a conditional use permit.
      (2)   No application for a conditional use permit for a manufactured home
park shall be complete and no public hearing shall be held until the following
information is submitted:
         (a)   Location and size of the manufactured home park;
         (b)   Location and size of each trailer site, dead storage area,
recreation area, roadways, parking sites, and all setback dimensions;
         (c)   Detailed landscaping plans and specifications, indicating that
the park shall be screened and buffered in accordance with §
151.105;
         (d)   Plans for sanitary sewer disposal, surface drainage, water
systems, electrical services, and fuel systems; and
         (e)   Such other information as is necessary to ensure conformance
with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Overall minimum park requirements.
      (1)   Each manufactured home park shall be of sufficient size to contain
at least 12 fully developed manufactured home sites and required accessory
areas.
      (2)   Each manufactured home park shall have access to a private street
which is deemed adequate to service the anticipated traffic generated by the
park.
      (3)   Each manufactured home park shall provide public water and sewer
facilities in accordance with standards determined by the city.
      (4)   Each manufactured home park shall provide a common central TV
antenna.
      (5)   All fuel systems shall be maintained from a common central source
metered to each individual coach site.
      (6)   At least 10% of the land area within each manufactured park shall
be designed for development for recreational purposes. Such spaces shall be
developed and maintained by the owner of the manufactured home park.
      (7)   Each manufactured home park shall have one or more central
community buildings.
      (8)   No manufactured home site, off-street parking space, building, or
street shall be located within 30 feet of the boundary of any manufactured home
park. This boundary area shall be landscaped and screening may be required by
the city.
      (9)   Identification signs for the park shall be limited to one sign not
exceeding six square feet for each outside street frontage. Such signs may be
illuminated but not flashing. The maximum height of such signs shall be 20
feet.
      (10)   Each manufactured home park shall have an office which is
distinctly marked and illuminated. Provisions shall be made for an adult
caretaker to be on duty at the park at all times. The manufactured home park
office shall maintain a registry showing the names and addresses of each
resident and the make, type, and license of each manufactured home and
automobile belonging to occupants of the coach sites.
      (11)   Provisions shall be made in the plans for every manufactured home
park to provide for a street fronting on each manufactured home site. Such
streets may be either public or private as agreed upon between the manufactured
home park developer and the city.
      (12)   Each manufactured home park shall have a storm shelter of adequate
size for all its residents on site.
      (13)   All manufactured home park streets shall be constructed of either
asphalt or concrete, shall meet the standards specified by the City Engineer,
and shall have concrete curb and gutter.
      (14)   The minimum street width shall be 36 feet (measured between the
backs of curbs).
      (15)   Streets interior to a manufactured home park shall be privately
owned.
      (16)   No cul-de-sac street may be more than 250 feet in length.
      (17)   Accessory structures shall be limited to one, ten foot by 12 foot
utility building, the siding and color of which matches the manufactured home.
      (18)   Portions of each site not occupied by buildings or parking spaces
shall be landscaped.
      (19)   Parking shall be located within the park’s boundaries.
   (C)   Zoning permit requirements. Initial permits for the construction of
manufactured home parks will not be issued for the development of less than 12
manufactured home sites. No permit will be issued until the developer provides
site and construction plans indicating the following:
      (1)   Location and size of the manufactured home park;
      (2)   Location and size of each manufactured home site, dead storage
areas, recreation area, roadways parking sites, and all setback dimensions;
      (3)   Detailed landscaping plans and specifications with appropriate
buffering;
      (4)   Plans for sanitary sewer disposal, surface drainage, water systems
electrical services, fuel systems, and trash disposal;
      (5)   Location and specifications for all streets abutting the
manufactured home park and proposed driveways from such streets into the park;
      (6)   All road construction plans and specifications;
      (7)   Complete construction plans for all proposed structures; and
      (8)   Such other information as is necessary to ensure conformance with
the requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot dimensions (feet):
 
Type of Manufactured Home     Depth Width
Single-wide manufactured home 100   50
Double-wide manufactured home 115   65
Depth shall be measured from edge of the road unless the lots are platted
 
      (2)   Minimum building setbacks (feet):
 
Use          Front Rear Main Entry Secondary Entry Interior Side Corner Side
                        Side       Side
Manufactured 25    10   25         10              -             -
Home
Accessory    50    0    -          -               5             20
Building
 
      (3)   No manufactured house, parking space, or accessory building may be
located within 30 feet of the exterior boundary of a manufactured home park.
      (4)   The developer shall provide five copies of the above required plans
and shall submit a detailed description of construction plans indicating the
time involved, cost estimates, stage developments, if any, and a detailed
description of maintenance procedures and ground supervision and methods
proposed for disposal of garbage and refuse.
      (5)   The city may require performance bonds in amounts adequate to
insure that development proposed in the plan submitted is actually completed.
      (6)   All developers of manufactured home parks shall provide evidence
that the plans therefor have been approved by the state’s Department of Health
and that the developer will comply with all recommendations, suggestions, and
regulations specified by that Department relative to manufactured home park
regulations.
      (7)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored in accordance with Minn.
Rules parts 1350.2500 to 1350.3200, Stabilizing System for Manufactured Home
Installation, as they may be amended from time to time.
      (8)   Any newly installed manufactured home older than 15 years from time
of the zoning permit will require a conditional use permit.
      (9)   All relocated manufactured homes older than 15 years from the time
of permit request require a conditional use permit. Approval may be granted,
provided the following criteria are met:
         (a)   Interlocked smoke detectors are required in each bedroom and in
the corridor;
         (b)   The windows must be double glaze;
         (c)   One egress window is required from each bedroom;
         (d)   Gas piping installation must be re-tested, re-inspected, and
approved by the city;
         (e)   The electrical service must be a minimum of 100 amp circuit
breaker type with ground fault interruption; and
         (f)   The manufactured home complies with the Manufactured Home
Building Code established by M.S. § 327.31, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from
time to time, and has not been altered to not comply.
(Prior Code, § 151.085) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.091 R-3 HIGH DENSITY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The R-3 High Density Residential District defines areas for
the development of medium to high density, multiple-family dwelling structures
and directly related complementary uses.
   (B)   Permitted uses. None.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Conditional uses and special provisions of the R-1 and R-2 District
except for single-family houses;
      (2)   Multiple-family buildings, including apartments, townhouses, four-,
six-, and eight-family buildings, and other residential structures containing
three or more dwelling units;
      (3)   Apartment buildings designed and marketed exclusively for the
elderly;
      (4)   Private parks and playgrounds/tot lots;
      (5)   A state licensed residential facility serving from seven through 16
persons;
      (6)   Group home/crisis shelters up to 5,000 square feet;
      (7)   Licensed day care facilities that are not permitted principal uses
under state law;
      (8)   Conditions for “residential facilities”, group homes, crisis
shelters, and licensed day care facilities shall not be imposed which are more
restrictive than those imposed on conditional uses or other multi-family
residential property in the same district, unless the additional conditions are
necessary to protect the health and safety of the residents of the residential
facility; and
      (9)   The requirements of §
151.105 shall apply to the conditional uses described in §
151.086.
   (D)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Any accessory use building or structure customarily incidental to a
use permitted above and located on the same lot therewith; and
      (2)   All accessory uses of the R-1 District.
   (E)   Dimensional regulations.
      (1)   Minimum lot area, width, and depth:
 
Use                  Minimum Lot Area per Minimum Lot Width Minimum Lot Depth
                     Dwelling Unit
Three or more family 4,000*               None              None
residence
                     Bedrooms per unit:
                     0: 2,500 sf/unit*
Apartment building   1: 3,000 sf/unit*    None              None
                     2: 3,000 sf/unit*
                     3: 3,500 sf/unit*
                     Bedrooms per unit:
Apartments for the   0: 1,000 sf/unit*    None              None
elderly              l: 1,500 sf/unit*
                     2: 2,000 sf/unit*
* Does not count area set aside for surface water ponding or wetland
protection.
 
      (2)   The minimum lot area requirements listed above may be adjusted as
follows:
         (a)   For each garage (parking unit) within or under an apartment
building, subtract 400 square feet from the total minimum lot area; and
         (b)   For each private dwelling unit entrance, subtract 400 square
feet form the total minimum lot area.
      (3)   Setbacks and heights:
 
Use                            Front Corner Side Interior Side Rear Height
Three or more family residence 30    25          15*           35   35
Apartments                     35**  35**        35**          35** 35
Accessory structures           30    25          6             6    16
* Add 6 inches for each foot the average height of the building exceeds 15
feet.
** No less than 35 feet or the average height of the building, whichever
is greater.
 
      (4)   There shall be a setback of six feet from an alley for all
structures.
      (5)   The minimum distance between buildings when the exterior walls are
parallel shall be equal to the height of the exterior wall or 15 feet,
whichever is greater. Buildings shall be no closer to one another at any point
than 15 feet.
   (F)   Parking requirements. Parking shall be provided according to the
regulations of §§
151.105 et seq.
   (G)   Common wall dwellings. Notwithstanding other provisions of §
151.084, one developer may construct two single-family dwellings with a common
wall and boundary line on which there may be no building setback from the
common boundary, provided:
      (1)   Each lot shall meet all other setback requirements for a multiple-
family dwelling; and
      (2)   Separate services shall be furnished and provided to each dwelling
for sanitary sewer and water.
   (H)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings shall observe the same
setback requirements established for the multiple residence building. The City
Planning Commission may require common walls for accessory buildings were
common walls will eliminate unsightly and hazardous areas.
   (I)   Required play area. Any multiple-family housing development of 24 or
more dwelling units (except housing for the elderly) shall plan for and provide
“tot lot” play facilities for pre-school children. The City Parks Department
and the City Council shall review and approve such play facilities.
Developments immediately adjacent to (not across the street from) public parks
having “tot lot” facilities shall be counted as a single project.
   (J)   Condominiums. Condominiums, as defined and regulated by M.S. Chapter
515, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be considered as “multiple-
family dwelling structures” in this chapter and shall be subject to all R-
3 District requirements, except as modified by the following.
      (1)   Approval of condominiums floor plan. The condominium “floor plan”
required by M.S. § 515.13, as it may be amended from time to time, shall not be
filed with the Registrar of Deeds until the same has been tendered to and
approved by the city. A transparency of the “floor plan” shall be given to the
city along with a copy of declaration required by M.S. § 515.11, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (2)   Converting existing structure to condominium use. Where any
existing multiple-family dwelling is proposed for conversion to a condominium
use:
         (a)   The proposed condominium use shall comply with all present
zoning and building requirements.
         (b)   A certificate of occupancy for each unit shall be at completion
of construction.
(Prior Code, § 151.086) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.105 SITE PLAN REVIEWS FOR MULTIPLE-FAMILY HOUSING, COMMERCIAL,
INDUSTRIAL, OR MANUFACTURED HOME PARK DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Screening.
      (1)   All commercial or industrial principal and accessory buildings
which are situated within and adjacent to a residential zoning district shall
be screened from such district by a wooden wall or fence of not less than 100%
opacity and not less than eight feet in height above the level of the
residential district property at its boundary. Such wall or fence shall be set
back from the property line at least five feet. In the setback area shall be
planted a combination of coniferous and deciduous plants and, possibly, vines
in order to soften the appearance of the fence or wall from the affected
residential area.
      (2)   Walls or fences of lesser heights or planting screens may be
permitted by the Planning Commission if there is a finding that the nature or
extent of the use being screened is such that a lesser degree of screening will
adequately promote and protect the use and enjoyment of the properties within
the adjacent residential district, or there is a finding that a screening of
the type required by this code would interfere with the provision of adequate
amounts of light and air to the residential properties.
      (3)   All required screening devices shall be designed so that they are
architecturally harmonious with the principal structures on the site and they
shall be properly maintained so as to not become unsightly, hazardous, or less
opaque than when originally constructed.
   (B)   Landscaping.
      (1)   All exposed ground areas surrounding or within a principal or
accessory use including street boulevards which are not devoted to drives,
sidewalks, patios, or other such uses shall be landscaped. All landscaped areas
shall be kept neat, clean, and uncluttered. No landscaped area shall be used
for the parking of vehicles or of the storage or display of materials,
supplies, or merchandise.
      (2)   Landscaping shall include:
         (a)   Tree planting at the rate of at least one tree per 800 square
feet of landscaping area;
         (b)   A combination of berming and tree planting; and
         (c)   Berming with low ground cover (slopes shall be no greater than
one foot in elevation per three horizontal feet).
      (3)   The minimum size of planted trees shall be two inches caliper for
deciduous trees and six feet in height for coniferous trees.
   (C)   Outdoor storage and displays.
      (1)   Open storage in industrial or commercial district buildings shall
be allowed only with a conditional use permit. All other storage shall be
maintained within an enclosed building or structure.
      (2)   All materials, by-products, supplies, merchandise, or other similar
matter not on display for direct sale, rental, or lease to the consumer or user
shall be stored within a completely enclosed building or within the confines of
a 100% opaque wall or fence no less than five feet tall or other buffering
approved by the Planning Commission. Merchandise which is offered for sale as
described heretofore may be displayed beyond the confines of a building only
upon application to the City Council for special temporary permission and only
following agreement to all conditions which may be attached to such
authorization.
(Prior Code, § 151.095) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.106 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Minimum size requirement.
      (1)   Each space shall contain a minimum area of not less than 300 square
feet including access drives, a width of not less than eight and one-half feet,
and a depth of not less than 20 feet. Spaces for the physically handicapped
shall be 12 by 20 feet, plus off loading zone.
      (2)   Each space shall be adequately served by access drives. All loading
spaces shall be sufficient to meet the requirements of each issue and shall
provide adequate space for storage and maneuvering of the vehicles it is
designed to serve. The minimum dimensions allowable for a loading space or
truck berth shall be 12 feet in width and 65 feet in depth.
   (B)   Reduction and use of parking and loading space. Off-street parking
facilities existing at the effective date of this chapter shall not
subsequently be reduced to an amount less than that required under this chapter
for a similar new building or use. Off-street parking facilities provided to
comply with the provisions of this chapter shall not subsequently be reduced
below the requirements of this chapter, except as provided in §
151.038 (Variances). Such required parking or loading space shall not be used
for storage of goods or for storage of vehicles that are inoperable or for sale
or rent.
   (C)   How to calculate required parking. In calculating the number of
parking spaces required, the following rules shall govern.
      (1)   FLOOR SPACE shall mean the gross floor area of the specific use.
      (2)   Where fractional spaces result, the parking spaces required shall
be construed to be the nearest whole number.
      (3)   For uses not specifically listed in this chapter, uses for which a
specific number of spaces have not been defined or for joint parking facilities
serving two or more different uses, the Zoning Enforcement Officer shall
determine the number of spaces to be required by utilizing the requirements of
the most similar use listed in §
151.107. Issuance of zoning permits for the above situations shall be subject
to approval of all site plans.
   (D)   Loading docks and berths. Placement of loading docks and berths shall
be limited to side and rear yards, except that where a dock or berth is so
designed as to be fully enclosed and incorporated within a principal structure,
including any vehicle being loaded or unloaded, such dock or berth may be
placed in a front area.
   (E)   Buffer fences and planting screens. Off-street parking and loading
areas near or adjoining residential districts shall be screened by a fence not
less than eight feet in height and 100% opaque. On the residential side of such
fence shall be a five-foot wide area which is landscaped with coniferous and
deciduous plantings and approved by the Planning Commission. Plans of such
screen or fence shall be submitted for approval as a part of the required site
plan and such fence and landscaping shall be installed as part of the initial
construction.
   (F)   Access.
      (1)   Parking and loading space shall have proper access from a public
right-of-way.
      (2)   The number and width of access drives shall be so located as to
minimize traffic congestion and abnormal traffic hazard, and no driveway in the
industrial district shall be closer than 50 feet from any right-of-way line of
a street intersection. In R-1 and R-2 Residence Districts and the Commercial
District, the minimum distance shall be 20 feet.
   (G)   Location of parking facilities. Off-street parking of trucks or buses
with a gross weight of over four and one-half tons, except for deliveries and
unloading, in all residential districts shall be prohibited
   (H)   Lighting. Lighting shall not be directed upon the public right-of-way
and nearby or adjacent properties. Such illumination must be indirect or
diffused.
   (I)   Required site plan. Any application for a zoning permit shall include
a site plan or plot plan drawn to scale and dimensions showing off-street
parking and loading space to be provided in compliance with this chapter. All
new principal buildings shall be drawn to scale on a registered land survey
(refer to § 151.040).
   (J)   Application of parking and loading requirements. Off-street parking
and loading regulations shall apply to all buildings and uses of land
established after the effective date of this chapter.
   (K)   Required number of off-street spaces. Off-street parking areas of
sufficient size to provide parking for patrons, customers, suppliers, visitors,
and employees shall be provided on the premises of each use. Section 151.107
designates the minimum number of parking and loading spaces that are required
to be provided and maintained at the time any new use or structure is occupied
or any existing use or structure is enlarged or increased in capacity.
(Prior Code, § 151.096) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.107 SCHEDULE OF OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
Land Use Number of Spaces Per Unit
Land Use                   Number of Spaces          Per Unit
All other commercial       5.5                       1,000 sq. feet
Apartment building         1 plus 0.5 in common for  Bedroom
                           visitors
Apartment building for the .5                        Dwelling unit
elderly
Auto body shop             4                         Service stall
Automobile service station 4                         Service stall
Bed and breakfast inn      1 plus 1 for the owner    Sleeping unit
Bowling alley              5                         Alley
Churches, auditoriums, and 1                         4 seats
other places of assembly
Convalescence of nursing   0.35                      Bed
homes
Convenience food store     1                         1,000 sq. feet
Elementary and nursery     1.6                       Classroom
schools
Funeral home               1                         5 seats
Grocery store              7                         1,000 sq. feet
Hospitals                  3                         Bed
Junior high schools        1.6                       Classroom
Manufactured homes         2                         Manufactured home lot
                           1                         Employee on principal
Manufacturing              or                        shift
                           2                          
                                                     1,000 sq. feet
Medical and dental clinics 5                         Doctor or dentist
Motels, hotels             1                         Sleeping unit
Museums and libraries      3                         1,000 sq. feet
Office building (less than 5                         1,000 sq. feet
20,000 sq. feet)
Office building (more than 4                         1,000 sq. feet
20,000 sq. feet)
One- and two-family house  2                         Dwelling unit
One- and two-family rental 1 per adult tenant        Dwelling unit (min. of 2
dwelling                                             spaces)
                           1                         4 seats
Recreation center          or                        or
                           5.5                       1,000 sq. feet
                           1                         Table
Restaurants and taverns    or                        or
                           1                         2 stools
Retail business            5.5                       1,000 sq. feet
Self-service car washes    4                         Lane (3 on entrance side,
                                                     1 on exit side)
Senior high schools        4.5                       Classroom
Townhouses, 4-, 6-, or 8-  2* plus 0.5 in common for Dwelling unit
family buildings           visitors
                           1                         Employee on principal
Warehouse                  or                        shift
                           1                          
                                                     2,000 sq. feet
Drive through service - provide 80 feet of vehicle stacking.
* Does not include the driveway in front of the garage door.
 
(Prior Code, § 151.097) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.108 BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Bed and breakfast establishments (“establishment”) may be allowed as a
conditional use in the city by permit as provided by the zoning and land use
regulations established by the city if the following conditions are met.
   (A)   The owner or resident manager of the establishment shall operate and
reside at the facility.
   (B)   The establishment shall conform to State Health and Building Code
requirements.
   (C)   The establishment’s owner must furnish evidence that licenses required
by the state either have been issued or will be issued before commencing
operation.
   (D)   The establishment shall be limited to five guest rooms.
   (E)   Guests shall not stay at the establishment for more than 30 days
within any 90-day period.
   (F)   The establishment shall provide a minimum of one off-street automobile
parking space for each guest room and one off-street automobile parking space
for the owner of the establishment.
   (G)   Identifying signs for the establishment to be no more than 20 square
feet in total, located on the building and consistent with the character of the
building.
   (H)   No cooking or cooking facilities shall be allowed or provided in the
establishment’s guest rooms.
   (I)   Meals shall be provided only to overnight guests of the establishment.
The City Council may approve, at its sole discretion, the provision of meals
for non-guests for special events, such as banquets or family gatherings, but
only if adequate parking is provided and no increase in traffic volume will
occur as a result of the special event. Approval may be limited to a single
event or on an annual basis.
   (J)   The City Council may, at its sole discretion, waive parking and other
non-health and safety requirements of land use and zoning ordinances of the
city for facilities listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
(Prior Code, § 151.098) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.109 SERVICE STATION AND CAR WASH REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Automotive service stations. Motor fuel stations are subject to
submission of a site plan conforming to the following design standards and a
statement agreeing to performance of those standards.
      (1)   The parcel of land shall not be less than 150 feet wide and 125
feet deep with one side facing on an arterial, minor arterial, or collector
street.
      (2)   No curb cut on an arterial or collector street shall be within 75
feet and no curb cut on a local street shall be within 25 feet of the
intersection of the project curb lines; no curb cut shall exceed 32 feet at the
sidewalk line; the driveway installed with a curb cut shall not cause the
public sidewalk to slope greater then one-fourth inch per foot; no more than
three curb cuts shall be permitted.
      (3)   The pump islands shall observe the required front yard setback, 15
feet or more of which shall be landscaped and protected by a curb at least six
inches high except for approved driveway crossings.
      (4)   All of the area of the parcel except that covered by buildings and
landscaping shall be hard surfaced to control dust and drainage. Drainage and
surfacing plans to be approved by City Engineer.
      (5)   An eight-foot tall, 100% opaque fence shall be installed and
maintained along the property line where the line abuts a residentially zoned
parcel. There shall be a five-foot wide strip of land on the residential side
on the fence landscaped with a combination of deciduous and conifers plant
approved by the City Planning Commission. Should the abutting area be zoned
residential, a 50-foot setback is to be provided between the property line and
any principal or accessory structure.
      (6)   A minimum of four parking spaces for each service stall shall be
provided, none of which are within the service drives for the pumps nor within
the required front yard; also, should the motor fuel station be a combined
business, the portion of the site and structure devoted to such other business
shall be calculated independently for determining parking to be provided.
      (7)   All lights shall be so located and/or shielded that the resulting
light pattern does not extend into abutting residential lots or the public
right-of-way beyond the intensity of one foot-candle.
      (8)   The sale or rental of trailers, autos, campers, boats, or other
merchandise requiring outside storage shall be considered a separate business,
shall be approved as a separate business, and shall not occupy the minimum area
required to conduct a motor fuel station.
      (9)   No obstructions shall be placed in the public right-of-way,
handicapped ramps, parking stalls, or access drives.
      (10)   A perspective drawing, including elevations, shall be submitted
for approval which indicates an architectural style compatible with adjacent
existing or proposed developments.
      (11)   Provisions shall be made for on lot receptacles for the storage of
trash in areas which are screened from the public view.
      (12)   Where vending machines are proposed as an accessory use, they
shall be incorporated into the design of the structure.
      (13)   All fuel storage tanks shall be placed in conformance with state
fire codes and so located that they may be serviced without the truck extending
beyond the property line.
   (B)   Car washes. Car washes are subject to the submission of a site plan
conforming to the following design standards and a statement agreeing to the
performance of those standards.
      (1)   The minimum lot width shall be 125 feet at the front yard building
setback line.
      (2)   No curb cut on an arterial or collector street shall be within 75
feet and no curb cut on a non-major thoroughfare shall be within 25 feet of the
intersection of the project curb lines; no curb cut shall exceed 28 feet at the
sidewalk line; the driveway installed with a curb cut shall not cause the
public sidewalk to slope grater than one-fourth inch per foot; nor more than
two curb cuts shall be permitted on any one public street.
      (3)   A side and rear yard setback of five feet shall be maintained
between the parking area and any lot line adjacent to commercial or industrial
districts. A side and rear setback of 50 feet shall be maintained between any
parking area and any lot line adjacent to all Residential Zoning (R-1 and R-2)
Districts.
      (4)   An eight-foot decorative fence, or a 15-foot wide planting strip
and three-foot decorative fence shall be installed and maintained along the
property line where the line abuts a residentially zoned parcel. Should the
planting strip and fence combination be selected, the proposed planting plan
shall be approved by the Planning Commission. Should the abutting area be zoned
residential, a 50-foot setback is to be provided between the property line and
any principal or accessory structure.
      (5)   Parking shall be provided in accordance with §
151.107.
      (6)   Interior curbs shall be constructed within the property lines to
separate driving and parking surfaces from landscaped areas. Interior curbs
required by this section shall be a normal six inches in height.
      (7)   All lights shall be so located and/or shielded that the resulting
light pattern does not extend into abutting residential lots or the public
right-of-way beyond the intensity of one foot-candle.
      (8)   Selling or storage of commodities or services (including gasoline
sales), other than as defined in this section, shall be conducted in
conformance with the requirements of the zoning district in which the car wash
in located.
      (9)   All washing facilities shall be completely within an enclosed
building.
      (10)   A perspective drawing, including elevations, shall be submitted
for approval which indicates an architectural style compatible with adjacent
existing or proposed developments.
      (11)   Provisions shall be made for one lot receptacle for the storage of
trash in areas which are screened from the public view.
      (12)   Vacuuming facilities shall not be located along public streets and
shall be completely screened from public streets and adjacent property.
      (13)   Where vending machines are proposed as an accessory use, they
shall be incorporated into the design of the structure.
      (14)   Where gasoline sales are involved, all fuel storage tanks shall be
placed in compliance with the State Fire Code underground and so located that
they may be serviced without the tank trunk extending beyond the property line.
Where gasoline sales are also involved, compliance with service station
requirements must be met.
      (15)   All wash water disposal facilities, including sludge, grit
removal, and disposal equipment, shall be subject to the approval of the City
Engineer and shall conform with all city ordinances regarding sewage and health
provisions, and shall be designed so as not to affect detrimentally the city
sewer system. A flammable waste trap is required.
(Prior Code, § 151.099) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.110 FILLING OR REMOVAL OF SOIL, SAND, OR OTHER MATERIALS.
   The dumping of dirt, rock, or other earthen material is permitted in any
district not part of a drainage channel, provided the surface of such material
is graded within a reasonable period of time and in a manner preventing the
collection of stagnant water and that the ground surface is left in a condition
suitable for the growing of turf or for other land uses permitted in the
district.
(Prior Code, § 151.100) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.111 ANTI-BLIGHT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to control, through zoning
regulations, certain land uses that have a direct and detrimental effect on the
character of the city’s residential and commercial neighborhoods. The City
Council specifically recognizes the sanctity and fundamental nature of free
speech and does not intend to regulate or ban speech based on content.
   (B)   Findings. The City Council makes the following findings regarding the
effect sexually-oriented businesses have on the character of the city’s
neighborhoods. In making these findings, the City Council accepts the
recommendations of the “Report of the Attorney General’s Working Group on the
Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses”, dated June 6, 1989.
      (1)   Sexually-oriented businesses have an impact on the neighborhoods
surrounding them which is distinct from the impact caused by other uses.
      (2)   Residential and commercial neighborhoods located within close
proximity to sexually-oriented businesses experience the following negative
impacts:
         (a)   Increased crime rates, particularly in sex-related crimes such
as rapes, prostitution, indecent exposure, and other lewd and lascivious
behavior;
         (b)   Property values which are either diminished or fail to
appreciate at the rate of other comparable properties not located in proximity
to sexually-oriented businesses;
         (c)   Increased transiency and decreased stability of ownership;
         (d)   Deteriorated neighborhood appearance from litter and graffiti;
         (e)   Sex-related harassment of residents and customers by motorists
and pedestrians;
         (f)   A perception that the area is “unsafe”; and
         (g)   Difficulty in attracting and retaining customers, employees, and
desirable tenants.
      (3)   The adverse impacts which sexually-oriented businesses have on
surrounding areas diminish as the distance from the sexually-oriented business
increases.
      (4)   The adverse impacts of sexually-oriented businesses are exacerbated
when the uses are located near each other.
      (5)   The presence of liquor establishments in the immediate vicinity of
sexually-oriented businesses also compounds the adverse impacts on the
neighborhood.
      (6)   Sexually-oriented businesses can exert a dehumanizing influence on
persons attending places of worship, children attending day care centers or
schools, and people using public parks and libraries.
      (7)   Sexually-oriented businesses can significantly contribute to the
deterioration of residential neighborhoods and can impair the character and
quality of the residential housing in the area where they are located, thereby
exacerbating the shortage of affordable and habitable housing for city
residents.
      (8)   The concentration of sexually-oriented businesses in one area can
have a substantially detrimental effect on that area and on the overall quality
of urban life. A cycle of decay can result from the influx and concentration of
sexually-oriented businesses. The presence of such businesses is perceived by
others as an indication that the area is deteriorating and the result can be
devastating: other businesses move out of the vicinity and residents flee from
the area. The resulting decline in real estate values erodes the city’s tax
base and contributes to overall urban blight.
      (9)   Land-use regulations are appropriate to minimize the detrimental
effects that sexually- oriented businesses have on adjacent land uses.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning. The following words and terms shall have the following
meanings when used in this section, except as provided otherwise in division
(D) below.
      SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. 
         (a)   A business that meets any of the following criteria, measured on
a daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly basis:
            1.   Has more than 25% of its inventory, stock in trade, or
publicly displayed merchandise in sexually-oriented materials;
            2.   Devotes more than 25% of its floor area (not including
storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements, or any portion of the business
not open to the public) to sexually-oriented materials; or
            3.   Derives more than 25% of its gross revenues from sexually-
oriented materials; or
         (b)   A business that engages for any length of time in a sexually-
oriented use as defined below or any other use that has an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      SEXUALLY-ORIENTED MATERIALS. Visual, printed, or aural materials, and
other objects or devices which:
         (a)   Contain, depict, simulate, or describe specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas;
         (b)   Are marketed for use in conjunction with, or are primarily used
only with or during, specified sexual activities; or
         (c)   Are designed for sexual stimulation.
      SEXUALLY-ORIENTED USE. Any of the following activities and businesses,
even if the activity exists for only a short-time.
         (a)   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business that
provides the service of applying paint, ink, or other substance, whether
transparent or non-transparent, to the body of a patron when the person is
nude.
         (b)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment or business used for the
barter, rental, or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures,
slides, records, audio tape, videotape, movies, or motion picture film if it
meets the criteria established in the definition of SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS
above.
         (c)   ADULT CABARET. A business or establishment that provides dancing
or other live entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
the depiction of nudity, specified sexual activities, or specified anatomical
areas, or the presentation, display, or depiction of matter that seeks to
evoke, arouse, or excite sexual or erotic feelings or desire.
         (d)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. A business or establishment
that provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
         (e)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR. A business or establishment that
provides the services of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
         (f)   ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A health/sport club that is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
         (g)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel that presents material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing,
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         (h)   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR/HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health
club that provides massage services distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         (i)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business or establishment
with a capacity of less than 50 persons that as a prevailing practice presents
on-premises viewing of movies, motion pictures, or other material distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
         (j)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. A business or establishment that provides
live models who, with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual
gratification, engage in specified sexual activities or display specified
anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted.
         (k)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are used to show images
to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
         (l)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A motion picture theater with a
capacity of 50 or more persons that as a prevailing practice presents material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
         (m)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. An establishment or business that has a
variety of items for sale if it meets the criteria established in the
definition of SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS above.
         (n)   ADULT SAUNA. A sauna that excludes minors by reason of age, and
that provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation, or reducing, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
         (o)   ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY. A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, if the building or
portion of a building restricts minors by reason of age and if the service
provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. 
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
area, buttock, anus, or female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola; and
         (b)   Human male genitals in a state of sexual arousal, whether or not
completely and opaquely covered.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. 
         (a)   Actual or simulated: sexual intercourse; oral copulation; anal
intercourse; oral-anal copulation; bestiality; direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals; flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship; the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship; anilingus; coprophagy; coprophilia; cunnilingus; fellatio;
necrophilia; pedophilia; piquerism; or zooerastia;
         (b)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual
stimulation, arousal, or tumescence;
         (c)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation,
coitus, or masturbation;
         (d)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks, or female breasts;
         (e)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
who are clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and engaged in
the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding, or other physical restraint of
any person;
         (f)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling, or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
         (g)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, or vaginal or anal
irrigation.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section does not regulate the following:
      (1)   Any material with significant literary content or social
commentary;
      (2)   A business where sexually-oriented materials are sold, bartered,
distributed, leased, furnished, or otherwise provided for off-site use or
entertainment, if the sexually-oriented material on each item is blocked from
view by an opaque cover as required under M.S. § 617.293, as it may be amended
from time to time, and each item is in an area accessible only by an employee
of the business;
      (3)   Any person or organization exempted under M.S. § 617.295, as it may
be amended from time to time;
      (4)   Any activity regulated under M.S. § 617.202, as it may be amended
from time to time;
      (5)   Displaying works of art showing specified anatomical areas, so long
as no sexually-oriented materials are for sale, and the business does not have
a liquor license; and
       (6)   Movies rated G, PG, PG-13, NC-17, or R.
   (E)   Location of a sexually-oriented business.
      (1)   A sexually-oriented business may locate only in the B-1 District.
      (2)   No person may operate a sexually-oriented business on property, any
part of which is within the area circumscribed by a circle that has a radius of
250 feet from any of the uses listed below. Distances must be measured by
following a straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects,
between the closest points on the boundary lines of the property parcels where
the two uses are located. This distance requirement applies to the following
uses:
         (a)   Property used or zoned for residential uses;
         (b)   A day care facility, school, library, park, playground, state or
federal wildlife area or preserve, religious institution, or other public
recreational facility;
         (c)   Premises licensed under the city code under the provisions
relating to liquor, beer, 3.2% malt liquor, and wine licensing; and
         (d)   Another sexually-oriented business.
   (F)   Sign restrictions for sexually-oriented businesses. In order to
protect children from exposure to lurid signs and materials, to avoid the
appearance that the windows are boarded-up and that the property is
deteriorating, and to preserve the value of property surrounding sexually-
oriented businesses, the following sign regulations apply to all sexually-
oriented businesses, in addition to other sign regulations in the code.
      (1)   All signs must be flat wall signs. No signs may be freestanding,
located on the roof, or contain any flashing lights, moving elements, or
electronically or mechanically changing messages.
      (2)   No merchandise, photos, or pictures of the products or
entertainment on the premises may be displayed in, or immediately behind,
window areas or any other area, if they can be viewed from outside the portion
of the building in which the business is located.
      (3)   Window areas must not be covered or made opaque in any way. No
signs may be placed in a window. A sign no larger than one-square-foot must be
placed on the main entrance door and must state, “adults only”. The letters of
this message must be a minimum of two inches high. The only other information
on this sign may be the hours of operation.
(Prior Code, § 151.101) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.112 ANTENNAS AND TOWERS.
   (A)   Antennas and dish-type antennas having a diameter no greater than 30
inches. Antennas and towers having over-all heights of 75 feet or less are a
permitted use in all districts and are permitted encroachments on height
requirements of this code. This includes towers of all types and antennas of
all types and sizes except dish-shaped antennas having a diameter greater than
30 inches. Antennas and dish- shaped antennas having a diameter of 30 inches or
less are exempt from any requirement for a building permit, but are subject to
excavation permit requirements when applicable. Antennas and towers higher than
75 feet require a conditional use permit.
      (1)   Vertical antennas. The bottom of the base of a mast- or tower-
mounted vertical antennas may be at a height of 75 feet or less with no over-
all height limit for the top of the antenna. The highest point of any ground
mounted vertical antenna, however, may be no more than 75 feet.
      (2)   Directional satellite communications antennas. The point at which
the main boom of a directional, non-dish-type satellite communications antenna
or antenna array is attached to its support structure (tower, mast, rotator,
and the like) can be no more than 75 feet high. The uppermost part(s) of such
antenna(s) can be at 100 feet.
      (3)   Height. The height of an antenna, dish antenna, or tower shall be
measured from the adjacent ground elevation at the base of the antenna, dish,
or tower to the highest point of the antenna or tower. If the antenna or tower
is mounted on a building, height is measured from the average grade level on
which the building is constructed.
      (4)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ANTENNA. A wire or other device that receives or transmits radio
waves.
         DIRECTIONAL SATELLITE COMMUNICATIONS ANTENNA. Any directional antenna
or antenna array designed to provide radio communications using satellites,
manned or unmanned spacecraft, moonbounce, troposcatter, meteor-trail
ionization, or similar vehicles or propagation modes.
         TOWER. A structure to which an antenna is attached.
   (B)   Installation requirements. An excavation or building permit is
required for all towers and antennas for which excavation is required. All
antennas and towers must conform to the Uniform Building Code, the National
Electric Code, the city/county airport zoning ordinance, and the regulations of
the Federal Airways Administration (FAA) and Federal Communications Commission
(FCC). Antennas or towers may be installed in utility casements if a waiver is
obtained from the City Engineer and the City Council.
   (C)   Tower locations. Antennas and towers shall not be allowed nearer the
street than the principal building on the lot; and nearer the rear or side lot
lines than the minimum rear or side yard setback. Wire antennas are exempt from
this requirement.
   (D)   Encroachment. No part of an antenna may extend beyond the lot line
over an adjoining lot without written permission from the owner or lessee of
that adjoining lot.
   (E)   Reservations. The city reserves the right to permit antennas, in its
sole discretion, on the top of water towers, high rise buildings, and other
structures.
(Prior Code, § 151.102) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.113 RELOCATING STRUCTURES; HOUSE MOVING.
   A building, including an accessory building, which is proposed to be moved
from one land parcel to another land parcel within the city shall require a
conditional use permit and a building permit. Any relocated building not
exceeding ten feet in width or 12 feet in length and being not over ten feet in
height require only a building permit.
(Prior Code, § 151.103) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.114 STORAGE OR TRANSFER OF FLAMMABLE LIQUID.
   There shall be no storage or transfer of Class I or Class II flammable
liquid, including filling of underground storage tanks, within 50 feet of any
dwelling.
(Prior Code, § 151.104) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.115 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   Compliance required. No land or building in any district shall be used
or occupied in any manner so as to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious, or
otherwise objectionable fire, explosive, or other hazard; noise or vibration;
smoke, dust, odor, or other form of air pollution; heat, cold, dampness,
electrical, or other substance, condition, or element in such a manner, or in
such amount, as to adversely affect the surrounding area of adjoining premises,
provided that any use permitted or not expressly prohibited by this chapter may
be undertaken and maintained if it conforms to the regulations of this section
limited objectionable elements at the point of the determination of their
existence.
   (B)   Points of measurement. The determination of the existence of any
objectionable elements shall be made at the location of the use creating the
same and at any points where the existence of such elements may be more
apparent; provided, however, that the measurement necessary for enforcement of
performance standards set forth in this section shall be taken at property line
boundaries.
(Prior Code, § 151.105) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.116 SIGNS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of this section is to provide standards for the use and
display of signs. It is recognized that signs serve an important function and,
therefore, reasonable and adequate display of signs is permitted under the
provisions of this section. At the same time, this section recognizes that
there is a definite need to regulate the display of signs as signs utilize the
visual element of the public right-of-way to bring messages to the public.
Limitations and standards are established herein consistent with the type of
the district and the uses and activities in the district.
      (2)   Any sign placed on land or on a building for the purposes of
identification or protection of the same or for advertising a use conducted
thereon or therein shall be deemed to be accessory and incidental to such land,
building, or use. It is the purpose of this section to place such limitations
on the display of all signs as will assure that they will be appropriate to the
land, building, or use to which they are appurtenant and be adequate, but not
excessive, for the intended purpose of identification, protection, or
advertisement.
   (B)   General requirements. Except as otherwise provided by this section,
signs as defined in §
151.004, where permitted, shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   Location. No sign shall be placed in or extended over any public
right-of-way in any district except the B-l Central Business District. Pre-
existing signs which violate required setbacks and/or encroachment of rights-
of-way shall be considered as non-conforming structures. Signs in street right-
of- way shall be eight feet above grade line. In no case shall signs create any
traffic sight hazards.
         (a)   Pre-existing signs which violate required setbacks and/or
encroachment or rights-of- way shall be considered as non-conforming
structures.
         (b)   No sign shall be erected to project above the roof or parapet
wall line of any building except by conditional use permit.
         (c)   Wall signs integral with, painted on, or attached flat against
the face of the building and/or structure shall not extend more than 24 inches
from such a structure.
         (d)   No temporary sign shall be attached to a light standard or the
supporting pylon of a freestanding sign.
      (2)   Measuring. For multi-faced signs. Each display face shall be
measured except in the case of two-sided signs that are identical on both
sides.
      (3)   Traffic hazard. No sign shall be erected near or at any
intersection of any streets in such manner as to obstruct free and clear
vision, or at any location where by reason of position, shape, or color, it may
interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any authorized
traffic sign, signal, or device.
      (4)    Marquees, canopies, and awnings. Signs attached to a marquee shall
not extend beyond the face or vertical surface of such marquee. No sign or sign
structure, except as mentioned above, shall be placed on the roof of a marquee.
No advertising shall be placed on any awning or canopy except the name of the
owner and/or business conducted on the premises.
      (5)   Freestanding signs. Freestanding signs shall not exceed 27 feet in
height above the ground on which they rest. No part of any sign may be within
five feet of any property line.
      (6)   Roof sign. Roof-mounted signs are not permitted.
      (7)   Wall signs. Wall signs placed or painted on the exterior walls of
buildings shall not extend beyond 24 inches of the wall surface. Wall signs
attached to and projecting from the exterior walls of buildings shall not
extend beyond 24 inches of the wall surface and shall not cover more than 15%
of that business’ wall.
      (8)   Illumination. The light from any illuminated sign or from any light
source, including interior of a building, shall be so shaded, shielded, or
directed that the light intensity of brightness shall not adversely affect
surrounding or facing residential districts, or adversely affect safe vision of
operators of vehicles moving on public or private roads, highways, or parking
areas. Light shall not shine or reflect on or into residential structures.
      (9)   Maintenance of signs. All signs shall be kept in good repair.
      (10)   Other identification signs in business centers.
         (a)   If a canopy or other building overhang is used, each business
may have an under- canopy identification sign not exceeding four square feet.
         (b)   Each business may have an identification sign on its door not
exceeding three square feet.
   (C)   Sign standards by zoning districts.
      (1)   General. The following sign standards by zoning district shall
apply to every existing zoning district and new zoning district hereafter
created unless otherwise expressly provided in such zoning districts. Only
signs as described herein shall be permitted. Municipal signs are exempt.
      (2)   Signs permitted in all zoning districts. Subject to the other
conditions of this chapter, the following signs shall be permitted in any
zoning district within the city. Signs in divisions (C)(2)(a) to (C)(2)(d)
shall be considered temporary. These signs and those described in division (C)
(2)(g) shall be allowed to be placed in any required yard setback, not
including boulevards or public right-of-way.
         (a)   Construction signs. One non-illuminated temporary sign facing
each bordering street, identifying all parties engaged in the construction of a
building, provided that the sign shall not exceed 35 square feet in area, does
not obstruct the vision in the public right-of-way, and is removed within 30
days following occupancy of the building.
         (b)   Real estate signs. One non-illuminated real estate sign not over
5% of the wall to which it is attached advertising the sale, rental, or lease
of only the building or premises on which it is located, or 12 square feet per
side if freestanding.
         (c)   Political signs. All non-commercial signs of any size may be
posted from August 1 in a state general election year until ten days following
the state general election, and in the case of a special election, from 30 days
before the special election to ten days after a special election.
         (d)   Portable signs. Portable signs are not permitted on highway
frontage per M.S. §§ 173.01 and 173.02, as they may be amended from time to
time. Portable signs may not be erected or placed for more than 30 days at a
time.
         (e)   Owner-occupant sign. One residential name sign not to exceed two
square feet per sign side in area, identifying only the name of the owner or
occupant of a residential building.
         (f)   Home occupation sign. One non-illuminated identification sign,
not to exceed four square per sign side in area, for the following permitted
uses: residential professional offices, home occupations, and boarding-lodging
houses.
         (g)   Billboards. Billboards are not permitted in any district, except
billboards may be permitted only by conditional use permit in AG and B-
2 Districts. Billboards are any permanent nongovernmental sign with not more
than two sides advertising product services, commodities, entertainment, or
other activity not offered at the location of the sign, or not exclusively
related to the premises on which the sign is located. A billboard is a
freestanding sign having an area of up to 200 square feet.
            1.   Billboards are not permitted within 500 feet of residential
districts.
            2.   No permit shall be granted for any proposed billboard if it is
within 1,500 feet of any existing billboard. Existing billboards shall be
defined as any billboard located within or outside the city’s municipal
boundaries.
            3.   No billboard shall be erected on any roof of a building.
            4.   Billboards must be landscaped around the base of the sign.
            5.   A billboard may not be a principal use.
            6.   No billboard structure shall contain more than two signs per
facing.
            7.   The maximum height of any portion of the sign, including trim
and extensions, shall be not more than 30 feet.
         (h)   Off-premises signs. Off-premises signs are not permitted except
with special permission of the City Council.
      (3)   Signs permitted in residential districts. Subject to the other
conditions of this chapter, the following signs shall be permitted in
residential districts.
         (a)   Subdivision plat signs. Temporary signs advertising a new
subdivision plat, provided such signs do not exceed 48 square feet in aggregate
surface area per sign side, identifying only the plat in which they are
located, are nonilluminated, and are erected only at dedicated street entrances
to the plat. Such signs shall be removed if construction of subdivision
improvements is not in progress on the plat within 60 days following the date
of the sign erection or as soon as 80% of the lots are developed and sold.
         (b)   Club, lodge, and office signs. One illuminated or non-
illuminated identification sign not to exceed 40 square feet per sign side in
area for the following uses: clubs, lodges, fraternities, and professional
offices where permitted.
         (c)   Civic/religious organizations and other permitted nonresidential
uses. One illuminated or non-illuminated identification sign or bulletin board
not to exceed a total of 40 square feet in area for the following uses: public
schools, parochial schools, colleges, public libraries, museums, social and
recreational buildings, parks, playgrounds, hospitals, sanitariums, charitable
and religious institutions, churches, cemeteries, and governmental office
buildings.
         (d)   Vacancy signs. Vacancy signs within residential districts are
limited to four square feet.
      (4)   Signs permitted in highway commercial, agricultural, and industrial
districts. The following signs shall be permitted in the B-2, AG, and CI
Districts.
         (a)   Signs as permitted in residential districts. Signs as permitted
and regulated for the uses in the residence districts.
         (b)   Business signs.
            1.   Name plate signs and business signs are permitted, provided
the aggregate square footage of sign space per lot shall not exceed the sum of
four square feet per front foot of such lots. The maximum allowable being 200
square feet.
            2.   The maximum height of a freestanding sign shall not exceed 27
feet.
      (5)   Signs permitted in the B-1 Central Business District. Name and
business signs are permitted, provided the aggregate square footage of sign per
lot shall not exceed the sum of two square feet per front lineal foot of
building. On corner lots, two front foot calculations are allowable provided
such side contains a major building entrance. Signage shall be designed to
enhance and complement the character of buildings within the district. All new
signs, the replacement, alteration, painting, and so forth of an existing sign,
requires a design review application.
   (D)   Prohibited signs. The following described signs are hereby declared a
nuisance and shall be prohibited in all districts of the city.
      (1)   Revolving and flashing signs. Signs which revolve or flash or
consist of lights which revolve or flash are prohibited with the exception of
devices which inform the public of time and/or temperature. Moving message type
signs shall be permitted as an exception when their messages consist primarily
of news, public announcements and the like, or a non-advertising nature.
      (2)   Signs imitating official signs. Signs which imitate an official
traffic sign or signal or which contain the words “stop”, “go slow”, “caution”,
“danger”, “warning”, or similar words.
      (3)   Confusing signs. Signs which are of a size, location, movement,
content, coloring, or manner of illumination which may be confused with or
construed as a traffic control device; or which hide from view any traffic or
street sign or signal: or which obstruct the view in any direction view at a
street or road intersection. Any sign that does or would interfere with the
ability of drivers or pedestrians to see any traffic sign or signal or any
crosswalk or otherwise constitute a public hazard.
      (4)   Roof sign.
      (5)   Other temporary signs. Signs which are pasted or attached to
utility poles, trees, fences, or other signs.
(Prior Code, § 151.106) (Ord. passed - -; Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.117 OPT-OUT OF M.S. § 462.3593.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subd. 9, the city opts-out
of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and regulates temporary
family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 151.107, passed 8-8-2016)
MUNICIPAL AIRPORT ZONING
§ 151.130 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The Hector and Renville County Joint Airport Zoning Board, created and
established by joint action of the Common Council of the city, Hector City
Council, and the Board of County Commissioners of Renville County, pursuant to
the provisions and authority of M.S. § 360.063, hereby finds and declares that:
   (A)   An airport hazard endangers the lives and property of users of the
Hector Municipal Airport, and property or occupants of land in its vicinity,
and also if of the obstructive type, in effect reduces the size of the area
available for the landing, takeoff, and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending
to destroy or impair the utility of the Hector Municipal Airport and the public
investment therein;
   (B)   The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public
nuisance and an injury to the region served by the Hector Municipal Airport;
   (C)   For the protection of the public health, safety, order, convenience,
prosperity, and general welfare, and for the promotion of the most appropriate
use of land, it is necessary to prevent the creation or establishment of
airport hazards;
   (D)   The prevention of these airport hazards should be accomplished, to the
extent legally possible, by the exercise of the police power without
compensation; and
   (E)   The prevention of the creation or establishment of airport hazards and
the elimination, removal, alteration, mitigation, or marking and lighting of
existing airport hazards are public purposes for which political subdivisions
may raise and expend public funds.
(Prior Code, § 151.120) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.131 SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known as “Hector Municipal Airport Zoning
Ordinance”.
   (B)   Those sections of land affected by this subchapter are indicated in
the appendix which is attached to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.121) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.132 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIRPORT. The Hector Municipal Airport located in parts of Sections 29, 32,
and 33 of Township 115 North of Range 32 West, Renville County, Minnesota.
   AIRPORT ELEVATION. The established elevation of the highest point on the
usable landing area which elevation is established to be 1,077 feet above mean
sea level.
   AIRPORT HAZARD. Any structure or tree or use of land which obstructs the
airspace required for, or is otherwise hazardous to, the flight of aircraft in
landing or taking off at the airport; and any use of land which is hazardous to
persons or property because of its proximity to the airport.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof designed or used as a residence or
sleeping place of one or more persons.
   HEIGHT. For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set
forth in this subchapter and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean
sea level elevation unless otherwise specified.
   LANDING AREA. The area of the airport used for the landing, taking off, or
taxiing of aircraft.
   LANDING STRIP. Any grass or turf covered area of the airport specifically
designated and used for the landing and/or takeoff of aircraft. This term shall
have the same meaning throughout this subchapter as does the term RUNWAY.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. Any pre-existing structure, tree, natural growth, or use
of land which is inconsistent with the provisions of this subchapter or an
amendment hereto.
   NONPRECISION INSTRUMENT RUNWAY. A runway having an existing or planned
straight-in instrument approach procedure utilizing air navigation facilities
with only horizontal guidance, and for which no precision approach facilities
are planned or indicated on an approved planning document.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association,
joint stock association, or body politic, and includes a trustee, receiver,
assignee, administrator, executor, guardian, or other representative.
   PLANNED. Refers only to those proposed future airport developments that are
so indicated on a planning document having the approval of the Federal Aviation
Administration, Division of Aeronautics and the city.
   RUNWAY. Any paved surface of the airport which is specifically designated
and used for the landing and/or taking off of aircraft.
   SLOPE. An incline from the horizontal expressed in an arithmetic ratio of
horizontal magnitude to vertical magnitude.
   STRUCTURE. An object constructed or installed by people, including, but
without limitations, buildings, towers, smokestacks, and overhead transmission
lines.
   TRAVERSE WAYS. For the purpose of determining height limits as set forth in
this subchapter, shall be increased in height by 17 feet for interstate
highways; 15 feet for all other public roadways; ten feet for the height of the
highest mobile object that would normally traverse the road, whichever is
greater, for private roads; 23 feet for railroads; and for waterways and all
other traverse ways not previously mentioned, an amount equal to the height of
the highest mobile object that would normally traverse it.
   TREE. Any object of natural growth.
   UTILITY RUNWAY. A runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by
propeller-driven aircraft of 12,500 pounds maximum gross weight and less.
   VISUAL RUNWAY. A runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using
visual approach procedures, with no straight-in instrument approach procedure
and no instrument designation indicated on an approved planning document.
   WATER SURFACES. Have the same meaning as land for the establishment of
protected zones.
(Prior Code, § 151.122) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.133 AIRSPACE OBSTRUCTION ZONING.
   (A)   Airspace zones. In order to carry out the purposes of this subchapter,
the following airspace zones are hereby established: Primary Zone, Horizontal
Zone, Conical Zone, Approach Zone, and Transitional Zone, and whose locations
and dimensions are as follows.
      (1)   Primary Zone.
         (a) All that land which lies directly under an imaginary primary
surface longitudinally centered on a runway and:
            1.   Extending 200 feet beyond each end of Runway 12/30; and
            2.   Coinciding with each end of Runway 4/22.
         (b)   The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as
the elevation of the nearest point on the runway centerline. The width of the
primary surface is:
            1.   Five hundred feet for Runway 12/30; and
            2.   Two hundred fifty feet for Runway 4/22.
      (2)   Horizontal Zone. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary horizontal surface 150 feet above the established airport elevation,
or a height of 1,227.3 feet above mean sea level, the perimeter of which is
constructed by swinging arcs of specified radii from the center of each end of
the primary surface of each runway and connecting the adjacent feet from all
runways.
      (3)   Conical Zone. All that land which lies directly under an imaginary
conical surface extending upward and outward from the periphery of the
horizontal surface at a slope of 20:1 for a horizontal distance of 4,000 feet.
      (4)   Approach Zone.
         (a)   All that land which lies directly under an imaginary approach
surface longitudinally centered on the extended centerline at each end of a
runway. The inner edge of the approach surface is at the same width and
elevation as, and coincides with, the end of the primary surface. The approach
surface inclines upward and outward at a slope of:
            1.   40:1 for Runway 12/30; and
            2.   20:1 for Runway 4/22.
         (b)   The approach surface expands uniformly to a width of:
            1.   3,500 feet for Runway 12/30 at a distance of 10,000 feet to
the periphery of the conical surface;
            2.   2,250 feet for Runway 4/22 at a distance of 10,000 feet to the
periphery of the conical surface.
      (5)   Transitional Zone. All that land which lies directly under an
imaginary transitional surface extending upward and outward at right angles to
the runway centerline and the runway centerline extended at a slope of 7:1 from
the sides of the primary surfaces and from the sides of the approach surfaces
until they intersect the horizontal surface or the conical surface.
   (B)   Height restrictions. Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter,
and except as necessary and incidental to airport operations, no structure or
tree shall be constructed, altered, maintained, or allowed to grow in any
airspace zone created in division (A) above so as to project above any of the
imaginary airspace surfaces described in division (A) above. Where an area is
covered by more than one height limitation the more restrictive limitation
shall prevail.
   (C)   Boundary limitations. The municipality may regulate height restriction
zoning for a distance not to exceed one and one-half miles beyond the perimeter
of the airport boundary.
(Prior Code, § 151.123) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.134 LAND USE SAFETY ZONING.
   (A)    Safety zone boundaries. In order to carry out the purpose of this
subchapter, there are hereby created and established the following safety zone
boundaries.
      (1)   Safety Zone A. All that land in the approach zones of a runway
which is located within a horizontal distance as follows:
         (a)   2,107 feet for Runway 12/30; and
         (b)   2,600 feet for Runway 4/22.
      (2)   Safety Zone C. All that land which is enclosed within the perimeter
of the horizontal zone and which is not included in Zone A or Zone B.
   (B)   Use restrictions.
      (1)   General. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth
in §
151.133(B), no use shall be made of any land in any of the safety zones defined
in division (A) above which creates or causes interference with the operations
of radio or electronic facilities on the airport and aircraft, makes it
difficult for pilots to distinguish between airport lights and other lights,
results in glare in the eyes of pilots using the airport, impairs visibility in
the vicinity of the airport, or otherwise endangers the landing, taking off, or
maneuvering of aircraft.
      (2)   Zone A. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth
in §
151.133(B) and to the general restrictions contained in division (B)(1) above,
areas designated as Zone A shall contain no buildings, temporary structures,
exposed transmission lines, or other similar above-ground land use hazards and
shall be restricted to those uses which will not create, attract, or bring
together an assembly of persons thereon. Permitted uses may include
agriculture, light outdoor recreation (nonspectator), cemeteries, and auto
parking.
      (3)   Zone B. Subject at all times to the height restrictions set forth
in §
151.133(B) and to the general restrictions contained in division (B)(1) above,
areas designated as Zone B shall be used for the following purposes only:
         (a)   For agricultural and residential purposes, provided there shall
not be more than one single-family dwelling per three-acre tract of land;
         (b)   Any commercial or industrial use which meets the following
minimum standards:
            1.   Each single commercial or industrial use shall not create,
attract, or bring together a site population that would exceed 15 times that of
the site acreage;
            2.   Each single commercial or industrial site shall be of a size
not less than three acres;
            3.   Each single commercial or industrial site shall contain no
dwellings and shall contain no more than one building per three-acre tract of
land; and
            4.   The maximum ground area to be covered by a single commercial
or industrial building shall not exceed the following minimum ratios with
respect to the building site area.
 
                 But Less Than  Ratio of Site    1st Floor Bldg. Max. Site
At Least (Acres) (Acres)        Area to 1st      Area (Sq. ft.)  Population (15
                                Floor Bldg. Area                 Persons/A)
3                4              12:1             10,900          45
4                6              10:1             17,400          60
6                10             8:1              32,700          90
10               20             6:1              72,600          150
20               and up         4:1              218,000         300
 
         (c)   The following uses are specifically prohibited in Zone B:
churches, hospitals, schools, theatres, stadiums, hotels and motels, trailer
courts, camp grounds, and other places of public or semi-public assembly.
      (4)   Zone C. Zone C is subject only to the height restrictions set forth
in §
151.133(B), and to the general restrictions contained in division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Boundary limitations. The municipality may regulate the location,
size, and use of buildings and the density of population in that portion of an
airport hazard area under the approach zones for a distance not to exceed two
miles from the airport boundary and in other portions of an airport hazard area
not to exceed one mile from the airport boundary.
(Prior Code, § 151.124) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.135 AIRPORT ZONING MAP.
   The several zones herein established are shown on the Hector Municipal
Airport Zoning Map consisting of three sheets, prepared by D.L. Noyes and dated
August, 1974, revised March, 1975, September, 1977, November, 1980, and
September, 1982, attached to and made a part of Ordinance 162, which map,
together with such amendments thereto as may from time to time be made, and all
notations, references, elevations, data, zone boundaries, and other information
thereon, shall be and the same is hereby adopted as part of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.125) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.136 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   The regulations prescribed by this subchapter shall not be construed to
require the removal, lowering, or other changes or alteration of any structure
or tree not conforming to the regulations as of the effective date of this
subchapter, or otherwise interfere with the continuance of any non-conforming
use. Nothing herein contained shall require any change in the construction,
alteration, or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of
which was begun prior to the effective date of this subchapter, and is
diligently prosecuted and completed within two years thereof.
(Prior Code, § 151.126) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.137 PERMITS.
   (A)   Future uses. Except as specifically provided in subdivisions (A)(1)
and (A)(2) below, no material change shall be made in the use of land and no
structure or tree shall be erected, altered, planted, or otherwise established
in any zone hereby created unless a permit therefor shall have been applied for
and granted by the Zoning Administrator hereinafter provided for. Each
application for a permit shall indicate the purpose for which the permit is
desired, with sufficient particularity to permit it to conform to the
regulations herein prescribed. If such determination is in the affirmative, the
permit shall be granted.
      (1)   However, a permit for a tree or structure of less than seven feet
of vertical height above the ground shall not be required in the horizontal and
conical zones or in any approach and transitional zones beyond a horizontal
distance of 4,200 feet from each end of the runway except when such tree or
structure, because of terrain, land contour, or topographic features, would
extend above the height or land use limit prescribed for the respective zone.
      (2)   Nothing contained in division (A)(1) above shall be construed as
permitting or intending to permit any construction, alteration, or growth of
any structure or tree in excess of any of the height limitations established by
this subchapter as set forth in §
151.133 and the land use limitations set forth in §
151.134.
   (B)   Existing uses. Before any existing use or structure may be replaced,
substantially altered or repaired, or rebuilt within any zone established
herein, a permit must be secured authorizing such replacement, change, or
repair. No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or
creation of an airport hazard or permit a non-conforming use, structure, or
tree to become a greater hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective
date of this subchapter, or any amendments thereto, or than it is when the
application for a permit is made. Except as indicated, all applications for
such a permit shall be granted.
   (C)   Non-conforming use abandoned or destroyed. Whenever the Zoning
Administrator determines that a non-conforming structure or tree has been
abandoned or more than 80% torn down, physically deteriorated, or decayed, no
permit shall be granted that would allow such structure or tree to exceed the
applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the zoning regulations.
Whether application is made for a permit under this division or not, the Zoning
Administrator may order the owner of the abandoned or partially destroyed non-
conforming structure, at his or her own expense, to lower, remove, reconstruct,
or equip the same in the manner necessary to conform to the provisions of this
subchapter. In the event the owner of the non-conforming structure shall
neglect or refuse to comply with such order for ten days after receipt of
written notice of such order, the Zoning Administrator may, by appropriate
legal action, proceed to have the abandoned or partially destroyed non-
conforming structure lowered, removed, reconstructed, or equipped and assess
the cost and expense thereof against the land on which the structure is or was
located. Unless such an assessment is paid within 90 days from the service of
notice thereof on the owner of the land, the sum shall bear interest at the
rate of 8% per annum from the date the cost and expense is incurred until paid,
and shall be collected in the same manner as are general taxes.
(Prior Code, § 151.127) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.138 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Any person desiring to erect or increase the height of any structure,
or permit the growth of any tree, or use his or her property not in accordance
with the regulations prescribed in this subchapter may apply to the Board of
Adjustment, hereinafter provided for, for a variance from such regulation. If a
person submits an application for a variance by certified mail to the members
of the Board and the Board fails to grant or deny the variance within four
months after the last member receives the application, the variance shall be
deemed to be granted by the Board.
   (B)   When the variance is granted by reason of the failure of the Board to
act on the variance, the person receiving the variance shall notify the Board
and the Commissioner of Transportation by certified mail that the variance has
been granted. The applicant shall include a copy of the original application
for the variance with this notice to the Commissioner. The variance shall be
effective 60 days after this notice is received by the Commissioner subject to
any action taken by the Commissioner pursuant to M.S. § 360.063, Subd. 6.
   (C)   Such variances shall be allowed where it is duly found that a literal
application or enforcement of the regulations would result in practical
difficulty or unnecessary hardship and relief granted would not be contrary to
the public interest but do substantial justice and be in accordance with the
spirit of this subchapter, provided any variance so allowed may be subject to
any reasonable conditions that the Board of Adjustment or Commissioner may deem
necessary to effectuate the purpose of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.128) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.139 HAZARD MARKING AND LIGHTING.
   (A)   Non-conforming uses. The owner of any non-conforming structure or tree
is hereby required to permit the installation, operation, and maintenance
thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator to indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the
airport the presence of such airport hazards. Such markers and lights shall be
installed, operated, and maintained at the expense of the Hector Municipal
Airport.
   (B)   Permits and variances. Any permit or variance granted by the Zoning
Administrator or Board of Adjustment, as the case may be, may, if such action
is deemed advisable to effectuate the purpose of the chapter and be reasonable
in the circumstances, so condition such permit or variance as to require the
owner of the structure or tree in question at his or her own expense, to
install, operate, and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be
necessary to indicate to pilots the presence of an airport hazard.
(Prior Code, § 151.129) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.140 AIRPORT ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   It shall be the duty of the City Administrator to administer and enforce the
regulations prescribed herein. The Zoning Administrator may be any individual,
official, board, or existing agency from the municipality or county adopting
the zoning ordinance and shall be appointed by the Airport Zoning Board.
Applications for permits and variances shall be made to the City Administrator
upon a form furnished by him or her. Permit applications shall be promptly
considered and granted or denied by him or her. Variance applications shall be
forthwith transmitted by the City Administrator for action by the Board of
Adjustment hereinafter provided for.
(Prior Code, § 151.130) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.141 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   Establishment. The Board of Adjustment shall consist of five members
appointed by the Hector and Renville County Joint Airport Zoning Board, and
each shall serve for a term of three years and until his or her successor is
duly appointed and qualified. Of the members first appointed, one shall be
appointed for a term of one year, two for a term of two years, and two for a
term of three years. Upon their appointment, the members shall select a
Chairperson to act at the pleasure of the Board. Members shall be removable by
the Joint Airport Zoning Board for cause, upon written charges, after a public
hearing.
   (B)   Powers. The Board of Adjustment shall have and exercise the following
powers:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals from any order, requirement, decision,
or determination made by the Zoning Administrator in the enforcement of this
subchapter;
      (2)   To hear and decide special exceptions to the terms of this
subchapter upon which the Board of Adjustment under such regulations may be
required to pass; and
      (3)   To hear and decide specific variances.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for its governance and
procedure in harmony with the provisions of this subchapter. Meeting of the
Board of Adjustment shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such
other times as the Board of Adjustment may determine. The Chairperson, or in
his or her absence the acting Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses. All hearings of the Board of Adjustment shall be
public. The Board of Adjustment shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing
the vote of each member upon each question, or, if absent or failing to vote,
indicating such fact, and shall keep records of its examinations and other
official actions, all of which shall immediately be filed in the office of the
Zoning Administrator and shall be of public record.
      (2)   The Board of Adjustment shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions of law giving the facts upon which it acted and its legal
conclusions from such facts in reversing, affirming, or modifying any order,
requirement, decision, or determination which comes before it under the
provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Adjustment shall be sufficient to reverse any order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the Zoning Administrator or to decide in favor of the
applicant on any matter upon which it is required to pass under this
subchapter, or to effect any variation in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 151.131) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.142 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the
Zoning Administrator made in his or her administration of this subchapter may
appeal to the Board of Adjustment. Such appeals may also be made by any
governing body of a municipality, county, or airport zoning board, which is of
the opinion that a decision of the Zoning Administrator is an improper
application of this subchapter as it concerns such governing body or board.
   (B)   All appeals hereunder must be commenced within 30 days of the Zoning
Administrator’s decision, by filing with the Zoning Administrator a notice of
appeal specifying the ground thereof. The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith
transmit to the Board of Adjustment all the papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken. In addition, any person aggrieved, or
any taxpayer affected by any decisions of the Zoning Administrator made in his
or her administration of this subchapter who desires to appeal such decision
shall submit an application for a variance by certified mail to the members of
the Board of Adjustment in the matter set forth in M.S.§ 360.068, Subd. 2.
   (C)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of
Adjustment, after the notice of appeal has been filed with it, that by reason
of the facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion,
cause imminent peril to life or property. In such case, proceeding shall not be
stayed except by order of the Board of Adjustment on notice to the Zoning
Administrator and on due cause shown.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall fix a reasonable time for hearing
appeals, give public notice and due notice to the parties in interest, and
decide the same within a reasonable time. Upon the hearing any party may appear
in person or by agent or by attorney.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment may, in conformity with the provisions of this
subchapter, reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or modify the order,
requirement, decision, or determination appealed from and may make such order,
requirement, decision, or determination, as may be appropriate under the
circumstances, and to that end shall have all the powers of the Zoning
Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 151.132) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.143 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved, or any taxpayer affected by any decision of the Board
of Adjustment, or any governing body of a municipality, county, or airport
zoning board, which is of the opinion that a decision of the Board of
Adjustment is illegal, may present to the County District Court a verified
petition setting forth that the decision of action is illegal, in whole or in
part, and specifying the grounds of illegality. Such petition shall be
presented to the court within 30 days after the decision is filed in the office
of the Board of Adjustment. The petitioner must exhaust the remedies provided
in this subchapter before availing himself or herself of the right to petition
a court as provided in this section.
(Prior Code, § 151.133) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.144 CONFLICTS.
   Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations
prescribed in this subchapter and any other regulations applicable to the same
area, whether the conflict be with respect to the height of structures or
trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the more stringent limitation or
regulation shall govern and prevail.
(Prior Code, § 151.135) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
§ 151.998 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of all architects, contractors, subcontractors,
builders, and other persons having charge of the erecting, altering, changing,
or remodeling of any building or structure, including tents and trailer
coaches, before beginning or undertaking any such work to see that such work
does not conflict with and is not a violation of the terms of this chapter. Any
such architect, builder, contractor, or other person doing or performing any
such work of erecting, repairing, altering, changing, or remodeling shall be
deemed guilty of a violation hereof in the manner and to the same extent as the
owner of the premises or the person or persons for whom such buildings are
erected, repaired, altered, changed, or remodeled in violation hereof and shall
be held accountable for such violation.
   (B)   Any building or structure being erected, constructed, reconstructed,
altered, repaired, converted, or maintained, or any building, structure, or
site hereafter erected or maintained, or land use made or permitted in
violation of this chapter, is hereby declared unlawful. In the event of
violation or threatened violation of this chapter or other official control
adopted under applicable state law, in addition to other remedies, the City
Council or any member thereof may institute appropriate actions or proceedings
to prevent, restrain, correct, or abate such violation or threatened violations
and it is the duty of the City Attorney to institute such actions.
(Prior Code, § 151.998) (Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of §
151.111 is a misdemeanor under state law and is subject to the penalties and
provisions of §
10.99 of the city code.
(Prior Code, § 151.101)
   (B)   Every person who shall construct, establish, substantially change,
alter, or repair any existing structure or use, or permit the growth of any
tree without having complied with the provisions of this subchapter, or who,
having been granted a permit or variance under the provisions of this
subchapter, shall construct, establish, substantially change or substantially
alter, or repair any existing growth or structure or permit the growth of any
tree, except as permitted by such permit or variance, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or
imprisonment for not more than 90 days or by both. Each day a violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The Airport Zoning
Administrator may enforce all provisions of this subchapter through such
proceedings for injunctive relief and other relief as may be proper under the
laws of M.S. § 360.073 and other applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 151.134)
   (C)   Any person, firm, corporation, or entity who violates any of the
provisions of this chapter or any order of the Zoning Administrator issued in
accordance with this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, be punished as provided for in Minnesota Basic Code § 10.99 by a
fine of not more than $700 and sentenced to imprisonment for a specified term
not more than 90 days for each offense, or both, plus the costs of prosecution
in either case. Each day that a violation is committed, or permitted to exist,
shall constitute a separate offense. The imposition of any fine or sentence
shall not exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of this
chapter, and the city may pursue, by appropriate actions or proceedings, any or
all additional remedies.
(Prior Code, § 151.999)
(Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984; Ord. 149, passed 3-9-1998)
APPENDIX A: LAND AFFECTED BY MUNICIPAL AIRPORT ZONING.
   The Hector Municipal Airport Zoning Ordinance (§§
151.130 through
151.144 of this code) affects all or a portion of the following sections of
land.
 
Name and Number of Airspace Obstruction Zoning (§  Land Use Safety Zoning (§
Township           151.133)                         151.134)
Hector             Sections: 19, 20, 21, 22, 26,    Sections: 20, 21, 27, 28,
T 115 N            27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34,  29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34
R 32 W             35
Martinsburg
T 114 N            Sections: 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9       Sections: 4, 5, 6
R 32 W
Melville
T 115 N            Sections: 25, 36                  
R 33 W
Palmyra
T 114 N            Sections: 1                       
R 33 W
 
(Prior Code, Ch. 151 Appendix) (Ord. 162, passed 6-5-1984)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   STREET NAME CHANGES
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.  Date   Description
No.   Passed
      8-8-   Annexing Lots 8 through 14 of Block 1 and all of Second Street and all of Lot
106   1950   “D” of Erickson’s Subdivision of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter,
             Section 29, Township 115, Range 32 to the city.
             Annexing the village cemetery situated in the northeast quarter of the northwest
             quarter, Section 32, Township 115 North, Range 32 West; the First Addition to
             the Hector Cemetery situated in Lot 2 in the northeast quarter of the northwest
             quarter, Section 32, Township 115 North, Range 32 West; and the city airport
             area described as Tract 1, Lot (C) of Erickson’s Subdivision of the northeast
      8-8-   quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 29, Township 115 North, Range 32
107   1950   West, east of the right-of-way of State Highway 4; Tract 2, Lot “B” in the
             southeast quarter of Section 29, Township 115 North, Range 32 West, east of the
             right- of-way of State Highway 4; Tract 3, all that part of the northeast
             quarter of Section 32, Township 115 North, Range 32 West, lying north of the
             center line of judicial ditch 15 and east of the right-of- way of State Highway
             4; and Tract 4, part of the northwest quarter of the northwest quarter of
             Section 33, Township 115 North, Range 32 West to the city.
             Annexing the following described lands to the city: Outlot 1 in the northeast
             quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 29, Township 115, Range 32; that
      6-6-   part of the east one half of the southwest quarter of Section 20, Township 115,
114   1955   Range 32 West of the Fifth P.M.; the 33 feet of Outlot B, being a part of the
             east one half of the northwest quarter of Section 29, Township 115 North, Range
             32 West; and Outlots B and C, situated in the east one half of the northwest
             quarter of Section 29, Township 115 North, Range 32 West.
      9-13-  Annexing Blocks 1 and 2 of Miller’s Addition to the city, situated in the
115   1955   northeast quarter of the northwest quarter of Section 29, Township 115, Range 32
             to the city.
      6-14-  Annexing certain unincorporated unplatted land described as a part of the north
128   1966   half of the northwest quarter of Section 29, Township 115 North, Range 32 West
             to the city.
140   6-13-  Annexing Lot 2 of the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 29,
      1974   Township 115 North, Range 32 West to the city.
145   1-9-   Annexing part of the northwest quarter of Section 33, Township 115 north, Range
      1979   32 West to the city.
233   5-29-  Annexation of approximately four acres for a fire hall.
      2007
2015- 9-14-  Annexation of adjacent property.
1     2015
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting to Minnesota Natural Gas Company a nonexclusive
125      10-26-1965  franchise to operate a gas system within the city and to
                     supply gas to the inhabitants thereof for a period of 25
                     years.
                     Granting to Northern States Power Company a franchise to
133      5-25-1970   operate an electric distribution system and transmission
                     lines to transmit electric energy into and through the
                     city for a period of 20 years.
                     Granting to Northern State Power Company a franchise to
                     construct, operate, repair, and maintain in the city an
170      6-11-1990   electric distribution system and transmission lines for
                     the furnishing of electric energy to the city for a period
                     of 20 years.
                     Granting to Minnegasco, Inc. a nonexclusive franchise to
                     construct, operate, repair, and maintain facilities and
125      10-9-1990   equipment for the transportation, distribution,
                     manufacture, and sale of gas energy for public and private
                     use for a period of 20 years.
                     Granting a franchise to DD Cable Holdings, Inc., dba
196      7-10-1995   Midwest CableVision, to construct, operate, and maintain a
                     cable television system in the city.
237      9-20-2010   Extension of the expiration date of a cable franchise.
238      9-20-2010   Granting a franchise to an electricity provider.
125      2-14-2011   Granting a natural gas franchise.
125-A    3-11-2013   Granting a natural gas franchise.
 
TABLE III: STREET NAME CHANGES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Designating the name changes of the following streets:
                     Changing Railroad Avenue to Bryant Avenue NE; changing 2nd
                     Avenue to Colfax Avenue NE; changing 3rd Avenue to Dupont
                     Avenue NE; changing 2nd Street to 2nd Street NE; changing
                     1st Street to 3rd Street NE; changing an unnamed street to
                     Ash Avenue E; changing Maple Street to Birch Avenue E;
                     changing Walnut Street to Cedar Avenue E; changing Hazel
                     Street to Douglas Avenue E; changing Park Street to Elm
                     Avenue E; changing Highway 212 to Highway Avenue E;
                     changing Second Street to Second Street E; changing First
                     Street to Third Street E; changing Oak Street to Fourth
                     Street E; changing Elm Street to Fifth Street E; changing
                     Ash Street to Sixth Street E; changing Linden Street to
129      9-26-1966   Seventh Street E;
                     changing proposed street to Eighth Street E; changing
                     proposed county road to Ninth Street E; changing First
                     Street to Ash Avenue W; changing Maple Street to Birch
                     Avenue W; changing Walnut Street to Cedar Avenue W;
                     changing Hazel Street to Douglas Avenue W; changing Park
                     Street to Elm Avenue W; changing Highway 212 to Highway
                     Avenue W; changing unnamed street past Catholic cemetery
                     to Greenwood Avenue W; changing Fourth Street to Second
                     Street W; changing Ridge Street to Third Street W;
                     changing Willow Street to Fourth Street W; changing Pine
                     Street to Fifth Street W; changing Eighth Street to Sixth
                     Street W; changing Ninth Street to Seventh Street W; and
                     changing Tenth Street to Eighth Street W.
 
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Minnesota Rules
References to Prior Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
12.25      34.01,
           34.04
M.S. Cites                Code Section
12.25                     34.01,
                          34.04
12.31                     34.06
                          33.15,
Chapter 13                33.16,
                          33.03
Chapter 13D               30.01,
                          33.03
14.57 to 14.69            112.36,
                          112.99
15.99                     151.038 –
                          151.041
18.36, Subd. 13           91.03
18G.13                    91.02
65B.48, Subd. 5           74.03,
                          75.04
84.81 through 84.91       73.06
115.01, Subd. 5           53.001
115.01, Subd. 20          53.061
115.07                    53.001
152.0263, Subd. 5         130.06
157.16                    112.03
157.16, Subd. 3d          112.03
                          70.01,
Chapter 169               74.04,
                          75.05,
                          76.07
169.011                   70.02
169.045                   74.02,
                          74.07
169.045, Subd. 7          74.04
169.68                    92.08
169.70                    74.04,
                          75.05
169.522                   74.04
173.01                    151.116
173.02                    151.116
216C.06, Subd. 14         151.038
237.162                   90.10
237.163                   90.10
260.125                   130.99
272.67                    151.080
Chapter 273               94.06
278.01 to 278.03          113.09
300.06                    90.04
326B.84                   150.02
326B.101 to 326B.194      150.01
326B.121, Subd. 2         150.01
326B.133, Subd. 1         150.01
326B.148                  150.01
327.15                    151.004,
                          151.090
327.31, Subd. 3           151.004,
                          151.090
Chapter 329               111.03
                          110.20,
                          112.01,
                          112.02,
Chapter 340A              112.20,
                          112.23,
                          112.36,
                          112.99
340A.101                  112.03,
                          112.22
340A.401, Subd. 1         112.22
340A.404, Subd. 4a        112.22
340A.404, Subd. 4b        112.22
340A.404, Subd. 5         112.22
340A.408, Subd. 2b        112.22
340A.408, Subd. 3         112.22
340A.408, Subd. 5         112.23
340A.409                  112.25
340A.413, Subd. 3         112.20
340A.414                  112.35
340A.414, Subd. 6         112.22
340A.504                  112.33
340A.504, Subd. 3         112.22
340A.504, Subd. 3b        112.22
340A.509                  112.02
340A.801                  112.25
342.0263, Subd. 5         130.06
342.09, Subd. 1(2)        130.06
342.09. Subd. 1(7)(b)(9)  130.06
342.09, Subd. 1(7)(iii)   130.06
343.40                    93.26,
                          93.31
343.40, Subd.2            93.31
347.50                    93.01,
                          93.32
347.51                    93.32
347.52                    93.32
347.52(a)                 93.32
347.52(c)                 93.32
347.515                   93.32
347.565                   93.32
360.063                   151.130
360.063, Subd. 6          151.138
360.068, Subd. 2          151.142
360.073                   151.999
364.03, Subd. 2           113.08
364.03, Subd. 3           113.08
364.06                    33.15,
                          33.16
364.09                    33.15,
                          33.16
412.591, Subd. 2          31.02
                          53.072,
Chapter 429               91.05,
                          94.01
                          90.44,
429.101                   91.05,
                          92.28
443.015                   50.07
444.23                    94.06
462.354, Subd. 1          32.055
462.357, Subd. 3          32.059
462.3593                  151.117
462.3593, Subd. 9         151.117
463.15 through 463.26     90.35,
                          90.38
466.02                    151.005
466.07                    151.005
469.090 through 469.1082  32.085
471.895                   33.03
512.06                    92.05
Chapter 515               151.091
515.11                    151.091
515.13                    151.091
609.02, Subd. 3           76.99
609.02, Subd. 4a          76.99
609.72                    110.20
609.205 (4)               93.32
609.226, Subd. 1          93.32
617.202                   151.111
617.293                   151.111
617.295                   151.111
626.84, Subd. 1           130.99
626.84, Subd. 1(f)        32.019
626.8461 through 626.8466 32.019
                          
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Code Section
Minn. Rules                        Code Section
Parts 1350.2500 to 1350.3200       151.090
Part 4630.0200                     151.004
Parts 4630.0200 to 4630.2210       151.090
Part 4630.2210                     151.004
Chapter 7080                       53.022
Chapter 7819                       90.02
Part 7819.0100 subpts. 1 through 2 90.02
Part 7819.1000                     90.06
Part 7819.1000 subpt. 3            90.03
Part 7819.1100                     90.07,
                                   90.10
Part 7819.1250                     90.19
Part 7819.1300                     90.11
Part 7819.3000                     90.07
Part 7819.3100                     90.16
Part 7819.3200                     90.18
Part 7819.4000                     90.15
Part 7819.4100                     90.15
Part 7819.5000                     90.16
Part 7819.5100                     90.16
                                   
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Current Code Section
Prior Code Section Current Code Section
10.01              10.01
10.02              10.02
10.03              10.03
10.04              10.04
10.05              10.05
10.06              10.06
10.07              10.07
10.08              10.08
10.09              10.09
10.10              10.10
10.11              10.11
10.12              10.12
10.13              10.13
10.14              10.14
10.15              10.15
10.16              10.16
10.17              10.17
10.18              10.18
10.19              10.19
10.99              10.99
30.01              30.01
30.02              30.02
30.03              30.03
30.04              30.04
30.05              30.05
30.06              30.06
30.07              30.07
30.08              30.08
30.09              30.09
31.02              31.02
32.001             32.001
32.002             32.002
32.003             32.003
32.015             32.015
32.016             32.016
32.017             32.017
32.018             32.018
32.019             32.019
32.035             32.030
32.036             32.031
32.037             32.032
32.038             32.033
32.039             32.034
32.040             32.035
32.041             32.036
32.042             32.037
32.043             32.038
32.044             32.039
32.045             32.040
32.046             32.041
32.047             32.042
32.048             32.043,
                   32.999
32.049             32.044
32.060             32.055
32.061             32.056
32.062             32.057
32.063             32.058
32.064             32.059
32.075             32.070
32.076             32.071
32.077             32.072
32.078             32.073
32.090             32.085
32.091             32.086
32.092             32.087
32.105             32.100
32.106             32.101
32.107             32.102
32.108             32.103
32.109             32.104
32.110             32.105
32.111             32.999
33.01              33.01
33.02              33.02
34.01              34.01
34.02              34.02
34.03              34.03
34.04              34.04
34.05              34.05
34.06              34.06
34.07              34.07
34.08              34.08
34.99              34.99
51.01              51.01
51.02              51.02
51.03              51.03
51.04              51.04
51.05              51.05
52.01              52.01
52.02              52.02
52.03              52.03
52.04              52.04
52.20              52.15
52.21              52.16
52.22              52.17
52.23              52.18
52.24              52.19
52.25              52.20
52.26              52.21
52.27              52.22
53.01              53.001
53.02              53.002
53.03              53.003
53.04              53.004
53.05              53.005
53.15              53.020
53.16              53.021
53.17              53.022
53.18              53.023
53.19              53.024
53.20              53.025
53.35              53.040
53.36              53.041
53.37              53.042
53.38              53.043
53.39              53.044
53.40              53.045
53.41              53.046
53.42              53.047
53.55              53.060
53.56              53.061
53.57              53.062
53.58              53.063
53.59              53.064
53.60              53.065
53.61              53.066
53.62              53.067
53.63              53.068
53.64              53.069
53.65              53.070
53.66              53.071
53.67              53.072
53.80              53.085
53.81              53.086
53.82              53.087
53.83              53.088
53.98              53.999
70.01              70.01
70.02              70.02
70.03              70.03
70.04              70.04,
                   72.04
70.05              70.05
70.06              70.06
70.07              70.07
70.08              70.08
71.01              71.01
71.02              71.02
71.03              71.03
72.01              72.01
72.02              72.02
72.03              72.03
72.04              72.04
72.05              72.05
72.06              72.06,
                   72.99
72.07              72.07
72.08              72.08
73.01              73.01
73.02              73.02
73.03              73.03
73.04              73.04
73.05              73.05
73.06              73.06
73.07              73.07
73.08              73.08
73.98              73.99
74.01              74.01
74.02              74.02
74.03              74.03
74.04              74.04
74.05              74.05
74.06              74.06
74.07              74.07
74.08              74.99
90.01              90.01
90.02              90.02
90.03              90.03
90.04              90.04
90.05              90.05
90.06              90.06
90.07              90.07
90.08              90.08
90.09              90.09
90.10              90.10
90.11              90.11
90.12              90.12
90.13              90.13
90.14              90.14
90.15              90.15
90.16              90.16
90.17              90.17
90.18              90.18
90.19              90.19
90.20              90.20
90.21              90.21
90.22              90.22
90.40              90.35
90.41              90.36
90.42              90.37
90.43              90.38
90.44              90.39
90.45              90.40
90.46              90.41
90.47              90.42
90.48              90.43
90.49              90.44
91.01              91.01
91.02              91.02
91.03              91.03
91.04              91.04
91.05              91.05
91.06              91.06
91.07              91.07
91.08              91.08
92.01              92.01
92.02              92.02
92.03              92.03
92.04              92.04
92.05              92.05,
                   92.99
92.06              92.06
92.07              92.07
92.08              92.08,
                   92.99
92.20              92.20
92.21              92.21
92.22              92.22
92.23              92.23
92.24              92.24
92.25              92.25
92.26              92.26
92.27              92.27
92.28              92.28
94.01              94.01
94.02              94.02
94.03              94.03
94.04              94.04
94.05              94.05
94.06              94.06
94.07              94.07
94.08              94.08
110.01             110.01
110.02             110.02
110.03             110.03
110.04             110.04
110.05             110.05
110.06             110.06
110.07             110.07
110.20             110.20,
                   110.99
110.35             110.35
110.36             110.36
110.37             110.37
110.38             110.38
110.39             110.39
110.40             110.99
111.01             111.01
111.02             111.02
111.03             111.03
111.04             111.04
111.05             111.05
111.06             111.06
111.07             111.07
111.08             111.08
112.01             112.01
112.02             112.02
112.03             112.03
112.04             112.04
112.05             112.05
112.20             112.20
112.21             112.21
112.22             112.22
112.23             112.23
112.24             112.24
112.25             112.25
112.26             112.26
112.27             112.27
112.28             112.28
112.29             112.29
112.30             112.30
112.31             112.31
112.32             112.32
112.33             112.33
112.34             112.34
112.35             112.35
112.36             112.36
112.99             112.99
130.01             130.01,
                   130.99
130.02             130.02,
                   130.99
130.03             130.03,
                   130.99
130.04             130.04
130.05             130.05
130.99             130.99
150.01             150.01
150.02             150.02
150.03             150.03
150.15             150.15
150.16             150.16
150.17             150.17
150.18             150.18
150.19             150.19
150.20             150.99
150.35             150.30
150.36             150.31
150.37             150.99
151.001            151.001
151.002            151.002
151.003            151.003
151.004            151.004
151.005            151.005
151.015            151.020
151.016            151.021
151.017            151.022
151.018            151.023
151.019            151.024
151.030            151.035
151.031            151.036
151.032            151.037
151.033            151.038
151.034            151.039
151.035            151.040
151.036            151.041
151.037            151.042
151.038            151.043
151.050            151.055
151.051            151.056
151.052            151.057
151.053            151.058
151.054            151.059
151.055            151.060
151.056            151.061
151.057            151.062
151.058            151.063
151.059            151.064
151.060            151.065
151.061            151.066
151.062            151.067
151.063            151.068
151.075            151.080
151.076            151.081
151.077            151.082
151.078            151.083
151.079            151.084
151.080            151.085
151.081            151.086
151.082            151.087
151.083            151.088
151.084            151.089
151.085            151.090
151.086            151.091
151.095            151.105
151.096            151.106
151.097            151.107
151.098            151.108
151.099            151.109
151.100            151.110
151.101            151.111,
                   151.999
151.102            151.112
151.103            151.113
151.104            151.114
151.105            151.115
151.106            151.116
151.120            151.130
151.121            151.131
151.122            151.132
151.123            151.133
151.124            151.134
151.125            151.135
151.126            151.136
151.127            151.137
151.128            151.138
151.129            151.139
151.130            151.140
151.131            151.141
151.132            151.142
151.133            151.143
151.134            151.999
151.135            151.144
151.998            151.998
151.999            151.999
Ch. 151 Appendix A Ch. 151 Appendix A
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res No. Date Passed Code Section
97-07   7-7-1997    32.085 –
                    32.087
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.  Date Passed Code Section
-         - -         93.38
-         - -         151.116
                      32.100 –
220       - -         32.105,
                      32.999
106       8-8-1950    TSO Table I
107       8-8-1950    TSO Table I
114       6-6-1955    TSO Table I
115       9-13-1955   TSO Table I
122       8-11-1964   33.02
125       10-26-1965  TSO Table II
128       6-14-1966   TSO Table I
129       9-26-1966   TSO Table III
133       5-25-1970   TSO Table II
140       6-13-1974   TSO Table I
145       1-9-1979    TSO Table I
82-3      6-28-1982   92.05,
                      92.99
74        7-26-1982   92.04
                      151.124,
162       6-5-1984    151.130-
                      151.144,
                      151.999
159       12-21-1984  32.085
170       2-14-1989   72.06,
                      72.99
166A      5-9-1989    52.04
170       6-11-1990   TSO Table II
125       10-9-1990   TSO Table II
172       4-14-1992   31.01
174       6-8-1992    51.05
173       6-9-1992    92.07
175       10-13-1992  31.02
180       7-13-1993   53.071
179       8-10-1993   53.072
                      53.001 –
                      53.005,
                      53.020-
                      53.025,
                      53.040-
181       8-10-1993   53.047,
                      53.060-
                      53.070,
                      53.085-
                      53.088,
                      53.999
184       6-14-1994   50.10
185       6-14-1994   71.01
183       7-12-1994   93.02,
                      93.21
                      150.30,
189       7-12-1994   150.31,
                      150.99
188       8-9-1994    32.085 –
                      32.087
192       11-15-1994  72.06,
                      72.99
193       3-14-1995   53.072
194       3-14-1995   72.06,
                      72.99
195       4-10-1995   30.01
196       7-10-1995   TSO Table II
197       8-14-1995   33.01
                      110.35 –
198       9-11-1995   110.39,
                      110.99
205       3-10-1997   51.05
206       4-14-1997   94.01 –
                      94.08
                      151.001 –
                      151.004,
                      151.020-
                      151.024,
                      151.035-
                      151.043,
149       3-9-1998    151.055-
                      151.066,
                      151.080-
                      151.091,
                      151.105-
                      151.116,
                      151.998,
                      151.999
207       5-10-1999   52.03
208       6-14-1999   70.04,
                      72.04
209       6-14-1999   92.08,
                      92.99
210       7-12-1999   92.03
211       2-14-2000   53.071
212       6-12-2000   92.06
216       6-13-2000   130.05,
                      130.99
                      73.01 –
214       1-8-2001    73.08,
                      73.99
215       2-12-2001   72.06,
                      72.99
217       9-10-2001   151.004
219       11-19-2001  110.39,
                      110.99
221       8-12-2002   70.08
218       9-10-2002   70.04,
                      72.04
223       4-14-2003   151.068
224       9-8-2003    112.05
225       10-20-2003  94.03 –
                      94.05
226       5-9-2005    151.066
227       5-9-2005    150.01
228       5-9-2005    150.03
229       10-9-2006   30.09
                      76.01 –
230       10-9-2006   76.07,
                      76.99
235       - -2007     151.067
231       5-14-2007   51.06
233       5-29-2007   TSO Table I
232       6-18-2007   151.082
234       7-9-2007    92.20 –
                      92.28
                      113.01 –
236       6-9-2008    113.13,
                      113.99
228(A)    10-28-2008  150.03
50        8-9-2010    50.48
237       9-20-2010   TSO Table II
238       9-20-2010   TSO Table II
125       2-14-2011   TSO Table II
151.064   4-9-2012    151.069
31.03     12-10-2012  33.15,
                      33.16
                      75.01 –
75        - -2013     75.07,
                      75.99
125-A     3-11-2013   TSO Table II
92        6-10-2013   92.06
-         6-9-2014    151.080
                      93.01 –
                      93.05,
-         8-11-2014   93.20-
                      93.37,
                      93.99
30.09     8-11-2014   30.09
2015-1    9-14-2015   TSO Table I
151.107   8-8-2016    151.117
                      50.01 –
                      50.11,
                      50.25-
-         --2018      50.30,
                      50.45-
                      50.48,
                      50.99
2019-241  8-12-2019   92.23
2019-242  1-13-2020   30.01
                      93.01,
-         - -         93.03,
                      93.35
2024-O-01 - -         130.06,
                      130.99
240       10-12-2021  92.07
31.01     4-10-2023   31.01
31.02     4-10-2023   31.02
                     
 
