HENDERSON, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 248, passed 11-20-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588
www.amlegal.com
CHAPTER I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
100.01   City code
   
100.02   Definitions
   
100.03   Statutory rules adopted
   
100.04   Existing rights and liabilities
   
100.05   Hearings
   
100.06   Penalties
   
100.07   Separability
§ 100.01 CITY CODE.
   (A)   Code adopted. There is hereby adopted that certain revisions and
codification of the ordinances of the city contained in a printed compilation
entitled “Henderson City Code”. A copy of the code shall be “official copy” and
filed as part of the official records of the city of the office of the City
Clerk.
   (B)   Repeals. Henderson City Ordinances numbers 1 through 234, inclusive,
are hereby repealed.
   (C)   Cross-reference. Appendix A of the Henderson City Code provides a list
of repealed Henderson Ordinances numbers 25 though 234, inclusive listings
relating to the adoption of Ordinances 177 through 234, and cross-references
same with relevant sections of the Henderson City Code.
   (D)   Copies. The Clerk shall provide a sufficient quantity of the city code
for general distribution to the public and shall give notice in the official
newspaper for at least successive weeks that copies are available in the City
Clerk’s office for examination or purchase, and also provide notice that the
updated codified ordinances are online when they are available from the
publisher.
   (E)   Prima facie evidence. The city code shall be prima facie evidence of
the law of the city.
   (F)   Effective date. The city code adopted therein took effect, from and
after, 12:01 a.m. on June 16, 2021.
(Ord. 235, passed 5-19-2021)
§ 100.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code of ordinances, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator.
   CITY. The City of Henderson.
   CLERK. The City Clerk.
   COUNCIL. The City Council.
   COUNTY. The County of Sibley, Minnesota.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association or
corporation. As applied to partnerships or associations, the term includes the
partners or members; as applied to corporations, the term included the
officers, agents or employees.
   STATE. The State of Minnesota.
§ 100.03 STATUTORY RULES ADOPTED.
   The definitions and rules of construction, presumptions and miscellaneous
provisions pertaining to construction contained in M.S. Ch. 645, as it may be
amended from time to time, are adopted by reference and made a part of this
code. As so adopted, references in that chapter to laws and statutes mean
provisions of this code and references to the legislature and the Council.
§ 100.04 EXISTING RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   The repeal or prior ordinances and adoption of this code are substantially
the same as pre-existing ordinances, they shall be considered as continuation
thereof and not as new enactments. Any forfeiture or punishment incurred or
assessed prior to the effective date of this code is not affected by the
enactment of the code.
§ 100.05 HEARINGS.
   (A)   General. Unless otherwise provided in the code, or by law, every
public hearing required by law, ordinance or resolution to be held on any
legislative or administrative matter shall be conducted in accordance with this
section.
   (B)   Notice. Every hearing shall be preceded by ten days’ mailed notice to
all persons entitled thereto by law, ordinances or regulation unless only
published notice is required. The notice shall state the time, place and
purpose of the hearing. Failure to give the notice or defects in it shall not
invalidate the proceedings if a good faith effort has been made to comply with
this division (B).
   (C)   Conduct of hearing. At the hearing, each party in interest shall have
an opportunity to be heard and to present such evidence as is relevant to the
proceeding. The Council may adopt rules governing the conduct of hearings,
records to be made and such other matters, as it deems necessary.
   (D)   Record. Upon the disposition of any matter after hearing, the Council
shall have prepared a written summary of its findings and decisions, and enter
the summary in the official Council minutes.
§ 100.06 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Petty offenses. Whenever an act of omission is declared by this code
to be a petty offense or a petty misdemeanor, any person violating the
provision, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not more than $300 or
as may be amended from time to time by M.S. § 169.89, Subd. 2, and M.S. §
609.0332, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   General misdemeanors. In any case, unless another penalty is expressly
provided in this code, any person violating any provision of this code, or any
rule or regulation adopted in this code by reference, including any provision
declaring an act or omission to be a misdemeanor, shall, upon conviction, be
guilty of a misdemeanor and be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000, as
established and amended from time to time by M.S. § 609.033, as it may be
amended from time to time, or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days, or
both, as well as, in either case, the costs of prosecution.
   (C)   Separate violations. Unless otherwise provided, each act of violation
and every day on which a violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate
offense.
   (D)   Application to city personnel. The failure of any officer or employee
of the city to perform any official duty imposed by this code shall not subject
the officer or employee to the penalty imposed for violation unless a penalty
is specifically provided for such failure.
§ 100.07 SEPARABILITY.
   If any ordinance or part thereof in the city code or here after enacted is
held invalid or suspended, such invalidity or suspension shall not apply to any
other part of the ordinance or any other ordinance unless it is specifically
provided otherwise.
CHAPTER II: OPERATIONS AND ADMINISTRATION
Section
Part I. The Council
   
201.01   Meetings
   
201.02   Presiding officer
   
201.03   Minutes
   
201.04   Order of business
   
201.05   Quorum and voting
   
201.06   Ordinances, resolutions, motions, petitions and communications
   
201.07   Committees
   
201.08   Suspension or amendment of rules
   
201.09   Salaries of Mayor and Council members
Part II. City Administrator
   
202.01   Establishment
   
202.02   Appointment
   
202.03   Employment agreements
   
202.04   Relationships
   
202.05   Removal
   
202.06   Duties and responsibilities
   
202.07   Temporary appointment
Part III. City Clerk/Treasurer
   
203.01   Establishment
   
203.02   Appointment
   
203.03   Official bond and oath of office
   
203.04   Removal
   
203.05   Duties and responsibilities
Part IV. Police Department
   
204.01   Establishment
   
204.02   Chief of Police
   
204.03   Duties of police
   
204.04   Uniform and badge
   
204.05   Special police
Part V. Fire District
   
205.01   City Fire District joint powers agreement
   
205.02   City fire station
   
205.03   Charges for emergency response fire service
Part VI. Planning Commission
   
206.01   Establishment of Commission
   
206.02   Composition
   
206.03   Organization, meetings and the like
   
206.04   Powers and duties of the Commission
   
206.05   Zoning ordinances; public hearings
   
206.06   Plats; approval
Part VII. Emergency Management Agency
   
207.01   Act adopted
   
207.02   Civil Defense Agency
   
207.03   Powers and duties of Director
Part VIII. Personnel Policy
   
208.01   Purpose
   
208.02   Scope
   
208.03   Employment
   
208.04   City authority
   
208.05   Probationary period
   
208.06   Compensation
   
208.07   Work hours and rules
   
208.08   Personal leave with pay
   
208.09   Other leaves
   
208.10   Leave without pay
   
208.11   Paid holiday leave shall be granted to all regular full-time employees
   
208.12   Resignation
   
208.13   Grievance policy
   
208.14   Lay-offs
   
208.15   Discipline
   
208.16   Retirement policy
   
208.17   Unlawful acts
   
208.18   Penalty
   
208.19   Use of city equipment and facilities
   
208.20   Outside employment
   
208.21   Personnel file
   
208.22   Political activities; officers and employees
   
208.23   Miscellaneous
   
208.24   Purchasing policy
   
208.25   Expense reimbursement
   
208.26   Group health insurance
   
208.27   Employment reviews
   
208.28   Affirmative action
   
208.29   Job descriptions
   
208.30   Rest and lunch periods
   
208.31   Criminal history background checks
Part IX. Police Personnel Policy
   
209.01   Purpose
   
209.02   Scope
   
209.03   Procedure for investigation and resolution of allegations of
misconduct
   
209.04   Hours of work/duties
   
209.05   When assisting other departments
   
209.06   When and when not public information
Part X. Abandoned Property
   
210.01   Abandoned motor vehicles
   
210.02   Other abandoned property
   
210.03   Storage of property in open areas
PART I. THE COUNCIL
§ 201.01 MEETINGS.
   (A)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Council shall be held on the
third Wednesday of each calendar month at 7:00 p.m. Any regular meeting falling
upon a holiday shall be held on the next following business day at the same
time and place. All meetings, including special and adjourned meetings, shall
be held in the City Hall.
   (B)   Special meetings.
      (1)   The Mayor or any two members of the Council may call a special
meeting of the Council upon at least 24 hours’ written notice to each member of
the Council or receipt verified.
      (2)   This notice shall be delivered personally to each member or shall
be left at his or her usual place of residence with some responsible person.
Similar notice shall be posted at the bulletin board at the City Hall, at the
post office and at the city’s Public Library.
   (C)   Initial meeting. At the first regular Council meeting in January of
each year, the Council shall:
      (1)   Designate the depositories of city funds;
      (2)   Designate the official newspaper;
      (3)   Choose one of the Council members as acting Mayor, who shall
perform the duties of the Mayor during the disability or absence of the Mayor
from the city, or, in case of a vacancy in the office of Mayor, until a
successor has been appointed and qualifies; and
      (4)   Appoint such officers and employees and such members of boards,
commissions and committees as may be necessary.
   (D)   Public meetings. All Council meetings, including special and adjourned
meetings and meetings of Council committees, shall be open to the public.
§ 201.02 PRESIDING OFFICER.
   (A)   Who presides. The Mayor shall preside at all meetings of the Council.
In the absence of the Mayor, the acting Mayor shall preside. In the absence of
both, the Clerk shall call the meeting to order and shall preside until the
Council members present at the meeting choose one of their number to act
temporarily as presiding officer.
   (B)   Procedure. The presiding officer shall preserve order, enforce the
rules of procedure therein prescribed and determine without debate, subject to
the final decision of the Council on appeal, all questions of procedure and
order. Except as otherwise provided by statute or by these rules, the
proceedings of the Council shall be conducted in accordance with Robert’s Rules
of Order, Revised.
   (C)   Appeal procedure. Any Council member may appeal to the Council from
ruling of the presiding officer. If the appeal is seconded, the member may
speak solely on the question involved and the presiding officer may explain his
or her ruling, but no other Council member shall participate in the discussion.
The appeal shall be sustained if it is approved by a majority of the Council
members present exclusive of the presiding officer.
   (D)   Rights of presiding officer. The presiding officer may make motions,
second motions or speak on any question; except that, on demand of any Council
member, he or she shall vacate the chair and designate a Council member to
preside temporarily.
§ 201.03 MINUTES.
   (A)   Who keeps. The Clerk shall keep minutes of each Council meeting. In
the absence of the Clerk, the presiding officer shall appoint a Secretary pro
tem. Ordinances, resolutions and claims need not be recorded in full in the
minutes if they appear in other permanent records of the Clerk and can be
accurately identified from the description given in the minutes.
   (B)   Approval.
      (1)   The minutes of each meeting shall be reduced to typewritten form,
shall be signed by the Clerk and copies thereof shall be provided to each
Council member.
      (2)   At the next regular Council meeting following such delivery,
approval of the minutes shall be considered by the Council. The minutes need
not be read aloud, but if the presiding officer shall call for any additions or
correction, it may be made without a vote of the Council.
      (3)   If there is an objection, the Council shall vote upon the addition
or correction. If there are no additions or corrections, the minutes shall
stand approved.
§ 201.04 ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   Order established. Each meeting of the Council shall convene at the
time and place appointed therefor. Council business shall be conducted in the
following order:
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Approval of minutes;
      (3)   Public hearings;
      (4)   Petitions, requests to appear before the Council;
      (5)   Ordinances and resolutions;
      (6)   Reports of officers, boards and committees;
      (7)   Old business;
      (8)   New business;
      (9)   Miscellaneous; and
      (10)   Adjournment.
   (B)   Varying order. The presiding officer may vary the order of business,
but all public hearings shall be held at the time specified in the notice of
hearing.
   (C)   Agenda.
      (1)   The Administrator shall prepare an agenda of business for each
regular Council meeting and file a copy in the office no later than five days
before the meeting, when possible and practical. The agenda shall be prepared
in accordance with the order of business and copies thereof shall be delivered
to each Council member and to the City Attorney and Clerk as far in advance of
the meeting as time for preparation will permit.
      (2)   No item of business shall be considered unless it appears on the
agenda for the meeting or is approved for addition to the agenda by a unanimous
vote of the Council members present.
§ 201.05 QUORUM AND VOTING.
   (A)   Quorum. At all Council meetings, a majority of all the Council members
elected shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but a
smaller number may adjourn from time to time.
   (B)   Voting. The votes of the members on any questions may be taken in any
manner that signifies the intention of the individual members, and the votes of
the members on any action taken shall be recorded in the minutes. The vote of
each member shall be recorded on each appropriation of money, except for
payments of judgments, claims and amounts fixed by statute. If any member is
present but does not vote, the minute, as to his or her name, shall be marked
“Abstain”.
   (C)   Votes required. A majority vote of all members of the Council shall be
necessary for approval of an ordinance unless a large number is required by
statute. Except as otherwise provided by statute, a majority vote of a quorum
shall prevail in all other cases.
§ 201.06 ORDINANCES, RESOLUTIONS, MOTIONS, PETITIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS.
   (A)   Readings. Every ordinance and resolution shall be presented in
writing. Every ordinance shall receive two readings before the Council prior to
final adoption, but shall not be read twice at the same meeting unless the
rules are suspended for that purpose. An ordinance or resolution need not be
read in full unless a member of the Council requests such a reading.
   (B)   Signing and publication proof. Every ordinance and resolution passed
by the Council shall be signed by the Mayor, attested by the Clerk and filed in
the ordinance or resolution book. Proof of publication of every ordinance shall
be attached and filed with the ordinance.
   (C)   Repeals and amendments. Every ordinance or resolution repealing a
previous ordinance or resolution or section or division thereof shall give the
number, if any, and the title of the ordinance or code number of the ordinance
or resolution or part thereof shall be set forth in full each amended section
or division as it will read with the amendment.
   (D)   Motions, petitions, communications. Every motion shall be stated in
full before it is submitted to a vote by the presiding officer and shall be
recorded in the minutes. Every petition addressed to the Council shall be in
writing and shall be read in full upon presentation to the Council unless the
Council dispenses with the reading. Each petition shall be recorded in the
minutes in the office of the Clerk.
§ 201.07 COMMITTEES.
   (A)   Committees designated. The Council may create such committees,
standing or special, as it deems necessary. Committees shall consist of as many
members and perform such duties, as the Council may require. Committee members
shall be appointed by the Mayor at the first regular meeting in January of each
year.
   (B)   Membership. Each committee shall consist of two members of the Council
and the Mayor shall designate the chairperson of each committee. Each committee
member shall serve as appointed unless excused by a majority of the members of
the Council. If the committee does not provide otherwise, committee meetings
shall be held at the call of the chairperson. The same notice shall be given of
committee meetings as for special meetings of the Council; except that,
personal notice needs not be given each member if the committee so decides.
   (C)   Referral and reports. Any matter brought before the Council for
consideration may be referred by the presiding officer to the appropriate
committee or to a special committee appointed by him or her for a written
report and recommendation before it is considered by the Council as a whole.
Each committee shall act promptly and faithfully on any matter referred to it.
§ 201.08 SUSPENSION OR AMENDMENT OF RULES.
   These rules may be suspended only by unanimous vote of the members present
and voting.
§ 201.09 SALARIES OF MAYOR AND COUNCIL MEMBERS.
   Salaries and compensation for meetings of Mayor and Council members shall be
determined by majority vote of the Council, by resolution, after motion duly
made and seconded at the annual meeting of the Council.
PART II. CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 202.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The position of City Administrator is hereby established as the chief
executive officer for the city under the authority of M.S. § 412.111, as it may
be amended from time to time.
§ 202.02 APPOINTMENT.
   The City Administrator shall be appointed by a majority of the City Council
and shall serve for an indefinite term. The Administrator shall be chosen on
the basis of executive and administrative qualifications and shall have
experience in the area of government or business administration.
§ 202.03 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS.
   The Council may enter into such contracts or employment agreements as it
deems necessary to further the purpose of this part.
§ 202.04 RELATIONSHIPS.
   The Administrator shall be subordinate to the City Council and all advisory
boards and commissions appointed by the Council. The Administrator shall be
responsible for, shall be the supervisor of all municipal departments,
operations and activities and shall provide coordination with the city and
among all outside agencies, officials and consultants.
§ 202.05 REMOVAL.
   The Administrator may be removed from the office by a majority of the
Council, with or without cause, or upon the natural lapse of his or her
contract.
§ 202.06 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   He or she:
   (A)   Directs the administration of the city as provided by Council action,
state and federal statutes and local ordinances, laws, resolutions and
agreements;
   (B)   Prepares reports and summaries relating to contemplated municipal
projects and/or improvements and submits them with recommendations as may be
required to the Council and submits quarterly reports to the Council on the
financial condition of the city accounts;
   (C)   Prepares the annual fiscal budget and maintains financial guidelines
for the municipality within the scope of the approved budget;
   (D)   Assists in preparation of the annual financial statement;
   (E)   Attends and participates in all Council meetings. Attends, at his or
her discretion or by invitation, or by direction of the Council any other
committee and/or commission meetings;
   (F)   Coordinates municipal programs and activities as authorized by the
Council, supervises activities of all municipal employees and is given the
authority to interview and screen prospective city employees, as permitted by
law and is able to make recommendations as to employment and removal of
employees to the City Council;
   (G)   Works in cooperation with the Council’s appointed attorney, engineer,
auditor, assessor or consultant, and monitors or assists with any work,
contractual or otherwise, performed by these professionals;
   (H)   Prepares news releases, develops and discusses public relations
material with all concerned as required. Maintains good public relations with
the general public. Handles correspondence on behalf of the Council;
   (I)   Consults with appointed officials and with other public or private
agencies as may be required;
   (J)   Is fully informed regarding federal, state and county programs that
affect municipality;
   (K)   Serves as the personnel officer for the city and enforces and upholds
all such authorized ordinances and resolutions;
   (L)   Serves as the City Council’s liaison and intermediary with the general
public and other commissions and boards;
   (M)   Recommends from time to time the adoption of such measures, as he or
she may deem necessary or expedient for protecting the health, safety and
welfare of the community or for the improvement of the administration of city
departments;
   (N)   Prepares the City Council agenda;
   (O)   Is responsible for the preparation of the Planning and Zoning
Commission agendas and acts as Zoning Administrator;
   (P)   Performs any other tasks the City Council feels are necessary and
within the scope of duties to be performed by the City Administrator; and
   (Q)   The City Administrator shall be the data privacy officer for the city.
§ 202.07 TEMPORARY APPOINTMENT.
   In the absence of or in case of temporary vacancy in the position of the
City Administrator, the Title Administrator, City Administrator and/or
Supervisor as written in all ordinances and/or resolutions adopted by the City
Council, shall be replaced by the title of City Council.
PART III. CITY CLERK/TREASURER
§ 203.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to the authority granted by M.S. § 412.591, Subd. 2, as it may be
amended from time to time, the offices of City Clerk and City Treasurer and
combined, and the office of City Clerk-Treasurer is established.
§ 203.02 APPOINTMENT.
   The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall be appointed by a majority of the Council
and shall serve for an indefinite terms. The Clerk-Treasurer shall be chosen on
the basis of clerical and financial qualifications and shall have the necessary
experience to perform the duties of the office.
§ 203.03 OFFICIAL BOND AND OATH OF OFFICE.
   The city’s Clerk-Treasurer shall be required to furnish a corporate surety
bond in the amount of $10,000 and take the oath of office at the time of
qualifying for office. The city is hereby authorized to pay the premium for the
required bond.
§ 203.04 REMOVAL.
   The city’s Clerk-Treasurer may be removed from office by a majority of the
Council with or without case. If he or she has served as Clerk-Treasurer for
more than one year, written charges and a public hearing shall be provided if
requested within ten days of the Council’s action. The hearing must be held
within 30 days of the request of the hearing.
§ 203.05 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The duties and responsibilities of the Clerk-Treasurer shall be those
provided for by state statute and this part, including, but not limited to the
following:
   (A)   Keep records of the Council proceedings, including the maintenance of
minutes, resolutions and ordinance books;
   (B)   Keep records of other boards and commissions as assigned;
   (C)   Supervise the conducting of all city elections;
   (D)   Maintain all financial records of the city and prepare all financial
reports;
   (E)   Prepare the municipal payroll and keep records regarding same;
   (F)   Execute all official papers duly authorized by the Council;
   (G)   File official documents and other records necessary for the efficient
and effective operation of the city;
   (H)   Certify documents attesting to its validity, when required; and
   (I)   Perform other duties as the Council or Administrator may from time to
time direct.
PART IV. POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 204.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   A Police Department is hereby continued. The head of the Department
shall be known as the Chief of Police and the number of additional members of
the Department, together with their ranks and titles, shall be determined by
the Council by resolution.
   (B)   The compensation to be paid members of the Police Department shall be
fixed by the Council.
§ 204.02 CHIEF OF POLICE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall have supervision and control of the Police
Department and its members. He or she shall be responsible to the Council for
law enforcement and for property of the city used by the Department.
   (B)   He or she shall be responsible for the proper training and discipline
of the members of the Department. He or she shall be responsible for the
keeping of adequate records and he or she shall report to the Council on the
needs of the Department and its work. Every member of the Department
subordinate to the Chief shall obey the instructions of the said Chief.
§ 204.03 DUTIES OF POLICE.
   Members of the Police Department shall enforce the ordinances and laws
applicable to the city, bring violators before the county court and make
complaints for offenses coming to their knowledge. Members of the Police
Department shall serve processes on behalf of the city and shall serve notices
as may be required by the Council or other authorities.
§ 204.04 UNIFORM AND BADGE.
   Each member of the Department shall, while on duty, wear a suitable badge
and uniform; except that, the Chief may authorize the performance of specific
duties while not in uniform. When a member terminates his or her membership in
the Department, he or she shall immediately deliver to the city all property of
the city in his or her possession.
§ 204.05 SPECIAL POLICE.
   The Council may appoint as many police officers as permitted by state
statutes. During such term of appointment, the police officers shall have only
those powers and perform only those duties as shall be specifically assigned by
the Council.
PART V. FIRE DISTRICT
§ 205.01 CITY FIRE DISTRICT JOINT POWERS AGREEMENT.
   (A)    It is hereby acknowledged that a Volunteer Fire District joint powers
agreement was entered into by the city on January 1, 2013, which abolished the
city’s Fire Department. This agreement is incorporated herein by reference.
   (B)   Said joint powers agreement between the city, Township of Henderson
and Township of Jessenland shall govern on all issues such as policy,
personnel, administration, mutual aid agreements, ownership of equipment,
staffing, funding, acquisition of property and disposition of property in the
event of dissolution of the joint powers agreement.
(Ord. 243, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 205.02 CITY FIRE STATION.
   The City of Henderson owns the premises known as the Henderson Fire Station
located at 500 Market Street, Henderson, MN, and is leasing said premises to
the Henderson Area Fire District for use as its fire station pursuant to a
lease agreement entered into by the city on October 16, 2013 and which is
incorporated herein by reference. The terms of the lease shall govern on all
issues which pertain to its operation as a fire station, including, but not
limited to, maintenance, improvements, insurance, damage or destruction to the
premises and termination of the lease agreement.
(Ord. 243, passed 9-18-2024)
§ 205.03 CHARGES FOR EMERGENCY RESPONSE FIRE SERVICES.
   (A)   Findings, purpose and intent. This section is adopted for the purpose
of authorizing the city to establish and charge user service charges for fire
services as described in this section.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      FIRE SERVICE. Any deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment
to extinguish a fire or perform any preventative or rescue measure in an effort
to protect equipment, life or property in an area threatened by fire. It also
includes the deployment of firefighting personnel and/or equipment to provide
fire suppression, rescue, extrication or any other services related to fire and
rescue as may occasionally occur. Such deployment constitutes FIRE SERVICE
regardless of whether these services are actually performed.
      FIRE SERVICE CHARGE. The charge imposed by the Henderson Area Fire
District Board for receiving fire service.
   (C)   Conflicts. In the event of any conflict between the provisions of this
section and applicable provisions of state law, rules or regulations, the
latter shall prevail.
   (D)   Fire service charges in general.
      (1)   The collection of fire service charges for fire service shall be
pursuant to M.S. §§ 366.011 and 415.01, as they may be amended from time to
time, and any other applicable statute. Collection of unpaid service charges
shall be as authorized in M.S. § 366.012, as it may be amended from time to
time.
      (2)   Said fees and charges shall be established by the Henderson Area
Fire District Board.
      (3)   For incidents for where the actual costs incurred by the Fire
Department in responding to the incident is charged, the fees shall include
those fees assessed by the Henderson Area Fire District Board.
      (4)   When a particular service rendered by the Fire Department directly
benefits more than one person or property, the owner of each property so
benefitted and each person so benefitted (where the property protection only is
not involved) shall be liable for the payment of the full charge for such
service to his or her respective property, as hereinbefore outlined.
      (5)   Parties billed the fire service charge will have 90 days to pay. If
the service charge is not paid by that time, it will be considered delinquent,
and the city shall then pay the Henderson Area Fire District as invoiced. The
city is then in turn authorized by M.S. § 366.011, as it may be amended from
time to time, to collect fire service charges from those persons or entities
receiving fire services. The City Administrator shall additionally be
authorized to certify, as a special assessment, unpaid fire service costs
against properties and individuals and entities receiving fire services. Said
special assessment for fire services shall be certified to Sibley County by the
City Administrator and collected as part of the real property tax collection
process.
(Ord. 230, passed 12-18-2013; Ord. 243, passed 9-18-2024)
PART VI. PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 206.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
   A City Planning Commission for the city is hereby established. The
Commission shall be the city planning agency authorized by M.S. § 462.354,
Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 206.02 COMPOSITION.
   (A)   Membership. The city’s Planning Commission shall consist of five
members. The City Administrator and the City Attorney shall be members ex
officio and the City Council shall select one member of the Commission from its
own membership to act as Chair for a term of one year. The other four members
shall be appointed by the Mayor from the citizenry at large and may be removed
by the Council.
   (B)   Terms, vacancies, oath. The terms of the members of the Commission
shall be two years, with two terms expiring January 1 each year. Appointees
shall hold their offices until their successors are appointed and qualified.
The terms of ex officio members shall correspond to their respective official
tenures. Vacancies during the term shall be filled by the Council for the
unexpired portion of the term. Every appointed member shall, before entering
upon the discharge of his or her duties, take an oath that he or she will
faithfully discharge the duties of his or her office. All members shall serve
without compensation.
§ 206.03 ORGANIZATION, MEETINGS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   Officers. The City Council shall select a Chair appointed for a term
of one year and the Commission may create and fill such other offices as it may
determine. The Zoning Administrator shall act as Secretary of the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Meetings, records, reports. The Commission shall hold meetings as
often as it deems necessary. It shall adopt rules for the transaction of
business and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions and findings,
which record shall be a public record. The Commission shall submit to the City
Council a verbal or written report of its work upon completion. Expenditures of
the Commission shall be within amounts appropriated for the purpose by the City
Council.
§ 206.04 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall have the powers and duties given
planning commissions generally by law.
      (1)   The Commission shall also exercise the duties conferred upon it by
this part and by the Council.
      (2)   After the Commission has prepared and adopted a comprehensive plan,
it shall recommend it to the Council for its review and for its adoption in
accordance with law.
   (B)   Similarly, after such review, it shall recommend to the Council any
amendments it deems desirable to the capital improvement program and any
ordinance implementing the plan.
§ 206.05 ZONING ORDINANCES; PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Zoning ordinances. No zoning ordinance or amendment shall be
adopted by the Planning Commission without notice requirements as provided in
M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time, or without
conforming to §
100.05 of this code of ordinances.
      (2)   Plats adopted by ordinance. The plats within the following
ordinances, and any and all amendments thereto, are adopted by reference and
incorporated herein as if set out in full:
         (a)   Ordinance 189, passed October 12, 1999;
         (b)   Ordnance 205, passed December 12, 2001;
         (c)   Ordinance 210, passed January 14, 2004;
         (d)   Ordinance 212, passed May 19, 2004;
         (e)   Ordnance 219, passed August 8, 2007; and
         (f)   Ordinance 229, passed February 12, 2014.
   (B)   Westview addition. Whereas, certain territory described below is not
presently included within the corporate limits of any incorporated city or
borough; and whereas, 60% or more of the perimeter of this territory is
bordered by lands already included within the corporate limits of the city and
is deemed to be urban or suburban in character; the City Council ordains the
following.
      (1)   Territory annexed. The corporate limits of the city are hereby
extended to include the unplatted territory described as follows: 60 person or
more of the perimeter of which territory is bordered by territory already
included within city limits: that part of the southwest quarter of Section 12,
Township 112 North, Range 26 West, Sibley County, Minnesota, described as
follows: beginning at a point on the west line of the southwest quarter of
Section 12, which is 550 feet south of the northwest corner of said southwest
quarter of Section 12, said point being the point of beginning of the tract to
be described, and from said point proceeding, thence north along the west line
of said southwest quarter of Section 12 for a distance of 550 feet to the
northwest corner of said southwest quarter, and thence east along the north
line of said southwest quarter for a distance of 294 feet; and thence south on
a line parallel with and 294 feet easterly of west line of said southwest
quarter for a distance of 476.40 feet; and thence along a straight line in a
westerly and southwesterly direction to and terminating at the point of
beginning.
      (2)   Filing. The City Clerk is directed to file certified copies of this
chapter with the Secretary of State, the County Auditor of the county in which
the property is located, the Town Clerk of the affected township and the
state’s Municipal Board.
      (3)   Population. The population of the annexed territory is zero.
      (4)   Effective date of annexation. This chapter takes effect upon
passage and publication and the filing of certified copies as directed in
division (B)(2) above and approval by the state’s Municipal Board.
§ 206.06 PLATS; APPROVAL.
   Any subdivision plat submitted to the Council for approval shall, prior to
final approval, be referred to the Planning Commission for review and
recommendation. Any plat so referred shall be returned to the Council by the
Commission with its recommendations within 30 days, and failure of the
Commission to report within that period is seemed to have satisfied the
requirements of this section.
PART VII. EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY
§ 207.01 ACT ADOPTED.
   The state’s Civil Defense Act, M.S. Ch. 12, as it may be amended from time
to time, insofar as it relates to cities, is adopted reference as part of this
part as fully as if set forth explicitly herein.
§ 207.02 CIVIL DEFENSE AGENCY.
   (A)   Agency and Director. There is hereby created within the city
government a civil defense and disaster agency which shall be under the
supervision and control of a Director of Civil Defense, hereinafter called the
“Director”. The Director shall be appointed by the Mayor for an indefinite term
and may be removed by him or her at any time. He or she shall serve without
salary, but shall be paid his or her necessary expenses. The Director shall
have direct responsibility for the organization, administration and operation
of the Civil Defense Agency, subject to the direction and control of the Mayor.
   (B)   Organization and function. The Civil Defense Agency shall be organized
into such divisions and bureaus, consistent with state and local defense plans,
as the Director deems necessary to provide for the efficient performance of
local civil defense functions within the city and, in addition, shall conduct
such functions outside the city as may be required pursuant to M.S. Ch. 12, as
it may be amended from time to time, or this part.
§ 207.03 POWERS AND DUTIES OF DIRECTOR.
   (A)   Intergovernmental arrangements. With the consent of the Mayor, the
Director shall represent the city on any regional or state organization for
civil defense. He or she shall develop proposed mutual aid agreements with
other political subdivisions within or outside the state for reciprocal civil
defense aid and assistance in a civil defense emergency too great to be dealt
with unassisted, and he or she shall present such agreements to the Council
defense plan and, during a civil defense emergency, the civil defense forces
shall render assistance in accordance with the provisions of such agreements.
   (B)   Civil defense plan. The Director shall prepare a comprehensive general
plan for the civil defense of the city and shall present such plan to the City
Council for its approval. When the Council has approved the plan by resolution,
all civil defense forces of the city shall perform the duties and functions
assigned by the plan.
   (C)   Reports. The Director shall prepare and present to the Council
periodically a report of activities and recommendations.
PART VIII. PERSONNEL POLICY
§ 208.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this part to establish a uniform and equitable system
of municipal personnel administration for all employees of the city.
§ 208.02 SCOPE.
   (A)   Personnel covered. Except as otherwise specifically provided, this
part applies to all employees of the city now existing or hereafter created,
except the following:
      (1)   All elected officials;
      (2)   The City Attorney(s) and the Health Officer(s);
      (3)   Members of city boards, commissions and committees;
      (4)   Emergency employees; and
      (5)   Other employees not regularly employed in permanent positions.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BENEFITS. Privileges granted by the city to an employee.
      COMPENSATION. All pay and benefits authorized in exchange for work
performed by an employee. All employees shall be paid semi-monthly based on
either hourly or monthly pay scales. All employees will be assigned an hourly
pay rate for said services.
      FULL-TIME EMPLOYMENT. Employment regularly engaged in on a scheduled,
full-time basis as determined by the needs and particular customs in each
department.
      PART-TIME EMPLOYMENT. Employment regularly engaged in on a scheduled,
less that full-time basis.
      PERSONAL LEAVE. Any day of compensated leave a regular full-time employee
may take.
      PROBATIONARY EMPLOYMENT. Employment during the probationary period.
      REGULAR EMPLOYMENT. Employment on a full- or part-time, year-around
basis. Successful completion of the probationary period may be required.
      SUPERVISOR/ADMINISTRATIVE PERSONNEL. Any person having authority to
assign and direct personnel in his, her, or their work, the authority to give
orders to personnel and expect them to be obeyed; the authority to recommend
action to the City Council; the authority to regularly exercise discretion and
independent judgment.
      TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT. Employment in any department or function of the
City Council to be temporary, and is compensated for on an hourly basis.
   (C)   Full-time regular employees. Those employees working an average of 30
or more hours per week in the city’s general government department,
administration, police, streets, parks, recreation, water, sewer, sanitation
and other related and necessary jobs and functions, or those whose job
description states they are full-time will be considered to be working full-
time. This average will be based on prior employment history and his, her, or
their job description, or in the case of a new job classification, the criteria
that is established for the job description.
   (D)   Provisions superseded in certain cases.
      (1)   Any employee included in a collective bargaining agreement entered
into in accordance with the Public Employment Labor Relations Act, M.S. Ch.
179A, as they may be amended from time to time, shall be exempt from any
provision of this part which is inconsistent with such agreement.
      (2)   Any employee within the jurisdiction of a personnel board or civil
service commission established under M.S. Ch. 44, 419 or 420, as they may be
amended from time to time, is exempt from any provisions of this part which is
inconsistent with such statute or rules and regulation adopted thereunder.
Nothing in this part is intended to modify of supersede any provision of the
Veteran’s Preference Act, M.S. §§ 197.46 to 197.481, as they may be amended
from time to time.
§ 208.03 EMPLOYMENT.
   All employment with the city shall be made by the City Council on the basis
of merit and fitness for the position. When required by law or by the Council,
merit and fitness shall be ascertained by written, oral or other examinations
designed to evaluate the ability of the candidate to discharge the position for
which the examination is held.
§ 208.04 CITY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Role and duties of personnel officer.
      (1)   The City Administrator shall perform duties and be responsible for
the enforcement of personnel (§§
208.01 to
208.24 of this part). He or she is the Personnel Officer.
      (2)   Specific duties are:
         (a)   Prepare and recommend to the City Council such changes in this
part as he or she may consider necessary or desirable;
         (b)   Make recommendations on employment, promotions, reprimands,
suspensions, demotions and dismissals on the basis of fitness and merit.
Fitness and merit may be determined by such oral, written or other standards as
are seemed appropriate and justifiable by the City Administrator, supervisory
personnel or the City Council;
         (c)   Prepare and maintain a system for a payroll schedule based on
the duties, qualifications, responsibilities and authority of the positions in
city employment;
         (d)   Prepare and make recommendations to the City Council as to the
rules and regulations governing the conduct of personnel and the performance of
assigned duties in the various departments, and perform such other activities
or practices with reference to personnel administration as may be necessary and
desirable; and
         (e)   Carry out specific orders given him or her by the Council.
   (B)   Council rights. The City Council retains the full and unrestricted
right to operate and manage all manpower, facilities and equipment; to
establish functions and programs; to set and amend budget; to determine the
utilization of technology; to establish and modify the organizational
structure; to select, direct and determine the number of personnel; to
establish work schedules; to perform any inherent managerial function it deems
necessary; and to exercise any and all powers granted to it be state statutes.
Any terms and conditions of employment not specifically established or modified
by this part shall remain solely within the discretion of the City Council to
modify, establish, by resolution adopted by majority vote of the City Council.
   (C)   Waiver. Any and all prior agreements, resolutions, practices,
policies, rules and regulations regarding terms and conditions or employment,
to the extent inconsistent with the provisions of this part are hereby
superseded with the exception of future written employment contracts.
§ 208.05 PROBATIONARY PERIOD.
   (A)   Purpose. The probationary period may be utilized for observing the
employee’s work; for securing the most effective adjustment of the employee to
the position; and for rejecting any employee whose performance does not meet
the required work standards.
   (B)   Duration. All employment with the city is subject to a probationary
period from three to 12 months as decided by the Council.
   (C)   Termination. The City Council may terminate a probationary employee at
any time during the probationary period if, in the City Council’s opinion, the
employee is unable or unwilling to perform the duties of the position
satisfactorily or that his or her habits and dependability do not merit
continuance in the position. The employee so terminated shall be notified in
writing of the reasons for the termination and shall not have the right to
appeal unless he or she is a veteran, in which case the procedure prescribed in
M.S. § 197.46, as it may be amended from time to time, shall be followed.
   (D)   Completion. An employee who has completed the period of probationary
service and who has not received, before completion of that period, a written
notice to the employee’s last known address from the City Administrator that
his or her services are terminated, shall be considered to have successfully
completed the probationary period and attained the status of a permanent
employee.
§ 208.06 COMPENSATION.
   (A)   Amount. Employees of the city shall be compensated according to the
schedule established by the City Council, as determined from time to time by
resolution adopted by majority vote of the Council. Any wage or salary so
established is the total remuneration for employment, but shall not be
considered as reimbursement for official travel or other expenses which may be
allowed for the conduct of official business. Unless approved by the Council,
no employee shall receive pay from the city in addition to the salary
authorized for the position for which he or she has been employed.
   (B)   Temporary and part-time employees. Temporary and part-time employees
shall be paid at a rate determined from time to time by resolution adopted by
majority vote of the Council. Temporary employees are not entitled to sick
leave, vacation leave, holidays with pay or the accumulation thereof.
   (C)   Overtime. The Federal Fair Labor Standards Act is hereby adopted and
made a part of this part by reference. Employees to whom either the Federal
Fair Labor Standards Act, being 92 U.S.C. §§ 201 et seq., apply shall be
compensated pursuant thereto.
      (1)   Compensatory time for all employees except supervisory/
administration shall be computed at time and one-half after 40 hours worked per
week. Supervisory/administrative employees shall receive comp time at straight
time (one hour for each extra worked over 48).
      (2)   The maximum accrual of comp time for all employees other than those
to which State or Federal Fair Labor Standards Act apply, shall be 40 hours and
comp time will not be cashed out at the end of employment. To the extent
permitted by law, comp time off from work shall be taken as approved by the
City Administrator.
   (D)   Time cards. All employees shall be required to submit a time card for
each period indicating hours worked and type of work performed. Time cards
shall be due no later than the morning of the first and sixteenth of each
month, except when these days fall on a weekend or holiday, then time cards are
to be due no later than the morning of the next working day following the
weekend or holiday, but may be submitted earlier upon request by the Treasurer.
The Data Privacy Officer has the right to review the time card at any time
during the pay period.
   (E)   Pay day. All employees shall be paid semi-monthly no later than three
working days after their time cards are submitted.
§ 208.07 WORK HOURS AND RULES.
   (A)   Hours of work. The normal, regular work week for non-salaried hourly
employees shall be 40 hours a week. Where department needs require other hours,
they shall be so determined by the department head.
   (B)   Work week. The work week shall be Saturday through Friday.
§ 208.08 PERSONAL LEAVE WITH PAY.
   (A)   Purpose. Personal leave may be granted to employees when the employee
is unable to perform work duties due to illness, disability, the necessity for
medical, dental or chiropractic care, child birth or pregnancy, or exposure to
contagious disease where such exposure may endanger the health of others with
whom the employee would come in contact in the course of performing work
duties; death in the family or for reasons deemed acceptable by the personnel
office and does not have to meet the two-week criteria described below.
   (B)   Amount allowed.
      (1)   Every regular full time employee shall accrue personal leave with
pay according to the following schedule; provided, however, that, probationary
employees may not take personal leave with pay during their probationary
period. A day for calculation purposes is assumed to be eight hours no matter
what the regular work week schedule for normal departmental operation is set
at:
         (a)   One year, or less, of employment: four hours/per pay period (12
days/year);
         (b)   Commencing with the second year through the fifth year of
employment: five and one- half hours/per pay period (16.5 days/year);
         (c)   Commencing with the sixth year through the fifteenth year of
employment: seven hours/per pay period (21 days); and
         (d)   Commencing with the sixteenth year of employment: seven and one-
half hours/per pay period (22.5 days).
      (2)   Requests for personal leave in excess of two days must be made to
the City Administrator two weeks in advance when practical. If conflicts arise,
the leave will be granted according to seniority. However, it must be noted
that the Department requirements for functioning take precedence.
   (C)   Working while on personal leave. If an employee is requested to, and
does, work during his or her personal leave, he or she shall be paid for
regular hours at regular rates, and for overtime at one and one-half regular
rate by comp time. In addition, the employee’s personal leave shall be
rescheduled to any future period the employees may request within the current
fiscal year on a priority basis with mutual consent of the employee and
personnel officer.
   (D)   Accrual. An employee may accrue personal leave to a maximum of 200
hours as of June 30 and December 31 of each year. Any hours accrued in excess
of 200 hours on June 30 and December 31 shall be forfeited. The City Council
may permit accumulation beyond the limit where special circumstances make the
limit impractical.
   (E)   Terminal leave. Any employee leaving the city employment in good
standing after giving proper notice of such termination of employment shall be
compensated for personal leave accrued and unused to the date of separation
based on employee’s last regular pay rate.
   (F)   Accrual during personal leave. For the purpose of accumulating
additional personal leave, an employee using earned personal leave is
considered to be working.
   (G)   Applicability to personal leave benefits. A probationary employee is
not entitled to personal leave benefits during the probationary period,
notwithstanding accrual of same. Personal leave benefits shall accrue during
the probationary period, but a probationary employee forfeits any and all
rights to the accrued personal leave benefits upon an unsuccessful completion
of a probationary period.
§ 208.09 OTHER LEAVES.
   (A)   Military leaves. Every employee to whom M.S. §§ 192.26 or 192.261, as
they may be amended from time to time, applies is entitled to the benefits
afforded by those sections subject to the conditions herein prescribed.
   (B)   Jury or witness duty. When an employee performs jury duty or is
subpoenaed as a witness in court or voluntarily serves as a witness in a case
in which the city is a party, the employee is entitled to compensation from the
city to equal to the difference between his or her regular pay and the amount
received as juror or witness.
§ 208.10 LEAVE WITHOUT PAY.
   (A)   The Council may grant any regular employee a leave of absence without
pay for a period not exceeding 90 days; except that, it may extend such leaves
to a maximum period of one year in cases where the employee is disabled or
where extraordinary circumstances, in its judgment, warrant such extension.
   (B)   No personal leave benefits shall accrue during a leave of absence
without pay, nor shall personal leave be granted to persons on unpaid leave.
§ 208.11 PAID HOLIDAY LEAVE SHALL BE GRANTED TO ALL REGULAR FULL-TIME
EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Holidays. The following ten calendar days and such other days as the
Council may fix are paid holidays: New Year’s Day; Martin Luther King Jr.’s Day
(third Monday in January); Presidents Day (third Monday in February); Memorial
Day (last Monday in May); Juneteenth (June Nineteenth); Independence Day; Labor
Day (first Monday in September); Veterans Day; Thanksgiving Day; the Friday
after Thanksgiving; Christmas Day. All employees in regular positions are
entitled to time off with full pay on holidays. The City Hall shall be closed
for business on each such holiday, but employees may be required to work on
paid holidays when the nature of their duties or other conditions require. An
employee required to work on a holiday shall receive another day off within 30
days thereafter as the City Administrator determines, unless consideration is
given to this factor in determining work schedules. When New Year’s, Martin
Luther King Jr.’s, Juneteenth, Independence, Veterans or Christmas Days falls
on Sunday, the following Monday is a paid holiday and if such day falls on a
Saturday, the proceeding Friday is a holiday. Each holiday commencing at the
beginning of the first shift on the day on which the holiday occurs and
continues for 24 hours thereafter. Eligible employees will receive pay for
official holidays at their normal rate of pay if they are at work or on a leave
of absence with pay on the last regular shift to which they would have been
assigned prior to the holiday, and the first regular shift to which they would
have been assigned following the holiday.
   (B)   Voting days. The City Hall will follow state statute in regards to
operation on voting days.
§ 208.12 RESIGNATION.
   Any employee wishing to leave the city employment in good standing, except
for mandatory retirement under §
208.16  of this chapter, shall file with the City Administrator at least 14
days before leaving, a written resignation stating the effective date of the
resignation and the reason for leaving. Failure to comply with this procedure
may be considered cause for denying the employee future employment and denying
terminal leave benefits. Unauthorized absence from work for a period of three
working days may be considered by the City Council as a resignation without
such benefits.
§ 208.13 GRIEVANCE POLICY.
   It is the policy of the city insofar as possible to prevent the occurrence
of grievances and to deal promptly with those which occur. When any employee’s
grievance comes to the attention of a supervisory employee, the supervisor
shall discuss all relevant circumstances with the employee and attempt to
resolve it to the extent that he or she has authority to do so. If the
grievance is not dealt with satisfactorily at that level, the grievance may be
brought to the attention of the City Administrator, then the matter may be
brought before the Council.
§ 208.14 LAY-OFFS.
   An employee may be laid off, with or without cause, at any time by the
Council. No regular or full-time employee shall be laid off while there is a
temporary or part-time employee serving in the same class of position for which
the regular or full-time employee is qualified, eligible and available.
§ 208.15 DISCIPLINE.
   (A)   In general. City employees shall be subject to disciplinary action for
failing to fulfill their duties and responsibilities. It is the policy of the
city to administer disciplinary penalties without discrimination. Every
disciplinary action shall be for just cause and the employee may demand a
hearing or use the grievance procedure of §
208.13 of this part with respect to any disciplinary action which he or she
believes is either unjust or disproportionate to the offense committed.
   (B)   Disciplinary action steps. Except for severe infractions, disciplinary
action against any employee shall be progressive and follow the steps listed
below in numerical order:
      (1)   Oral/written reprimand;
      (2)   A written reprimand shall state that the employee is being warned
for misconduct; describe the misconduct; describe past actions taken by the
City Administrator, Supervisor or City Council to correct the problem; urge
prompt correction or improvement by the employee; include timetables and goals
for improvement when appropriate; and outline future penalties should the
problem continue. The employee shall be given a copy of the reprimand and
acknowledge receipt of the same by employee’s signature. The signature of the
employee does not mean that he or she agrees with the reprimand;
      (3)   Prior to the suspension or as soon thereafter as possible, the
employee shall be notified in writing of the reason or reasons for the
suspension. An employee may be suspended pending an investigation of the
alleged violation of division (D) below. A copy of all written statements taken
during said investigation shall be places in the employee’s personnel file. If,
after investigation, the acts of the employee alleged to be in violation of
division (D) below, or any part thereof, proves to be false, then, the employee
shall be immediately reinstated, any written statement shall be removed from
the employee’s file, and the employee shall receive any compensation to which
he or she would have been entitled had the suspension not taken place. If,
after investigation, it appears more likely than not, that the employee did
commit the act or acts in violation of division (D) below or any part thereof,
the, the Council shall, at its discretion:
         (a)   Reinstate the employee. Employee shall forfeit all right to back
pay during the time of suspension. Then, upon the employee’s return to work, he
or she shall be given a written statement outlining further disciplinary
actions should the misconduct continue; and/or
         (b)   Dismiss the employee pursuant to division (B)(4) below.
      (4)   The Council may dismiss any employee after the employee is given a
notice in writing at least five working days before the effective date of the
dismissal. The notice shall contain the reasons for the dismissal; the
employee’s rights under these rules and the veterans’ preference law if he is a
veteran; and a statement indicating that the employee may respond to the
charges both orally and in writing and that he or she may appear personally
before the official having authority to make or recommend the final decision.
   (C)   Grounds for immediate dismissal.
      (1)   The following shall constitute grounds for immediate dismissal of
an employee without notice:
         (a)   Repeated tardiness after warning;
         (b)   Three or more unauthorized absences after warning or abuse of
leave privileges;
         (c)   Inducing or attempting to induce an official or employee of the
city to commit an unlawful act or to act in violation of any lawful and
reasonable official regulation or order;
         (d)   Theft or malicious destruction of public property;
         (e)   Proven dishonesty in the performance of an employee’s duties;
         (f)   No employee shall expect or accept compensation from any source
outside of the city for any services rendered as a part of his or her official
duties unless compelled by civil process or an order of the court to render
such services; and
         (g)   No employee shall accept any compensation or gift for the
purpose of influencing the action of such employee in any official matter.
      (2)   Grounds enumerated in division (C)(1) above are not exclusive. The
City Council may immediately dismiss an employee with or without cause, and
without notice whenever it is deemed to be in the best interests of the city.
   (D)   Other disciplinary actions. The following other disciplinary actions
may be taken against any employee after steps above have been followed:
      (1)   Incompetence, inefficiency or negligence in the performance of
duty;
      (2)   Insubordination, including, but not limited to, refusal to obey an
order that a superior is entitled to give and expect to have obeyed;
      (3)   Public statements which are slanderous, libelous or which tend to
discredit a city official of the city service;
      (4)   Under the influence of intoxicating beverages while on duty;
drinking intoxicating beverages while on duty; or reporting to work while under
the influence of intoxicating beverages; (The use of intoxicating beverages may
be authorized by the City Administrator or City Council under some work related
circumstances.)
      (5)   Under the influence of those drugs prohibited by municipal, state
or federal law while on duty without authorization by a licensed physician and
without written permission from the City Administrator; or reporting to work
while under the influence of prohibited drugs without authorization of a
licensed physician and without written permission from the City Administrator;
      (6)   Excessive use of offensive conduct or language toward the public or
city officials or employee;
      (7)   Conviction of a criminal offense or misdemeanor involving moral
turpitude;
      (8)   Physical or mental defect which in the judgment of the City
Administrator incapacitates the employee for the proper performance in the
duties of his or her position;
      (9)   Carelessness or negligence in the handling or control of city
property;
      (10)   No city employee shall engage in acts of harassment, intimidation
or “practical jokes” which might reasonably be expected to cause mental or
physical injury or discomfort to another person or endanger public or private
property;
      (11)   Violation of the provisions of law or of the city personnel
ordinance; and
      (12)   Violation of these personnel rules and regulations or written
departmental regulations.
§ 208.16 RETIREMENT POLICY.
   (A)   General rule. Every employee of the city shall automatically be
retired upon reaching the age of 70 years, except as provided in division (B)
below. Any employee opting for early retirement must do so in accordance with
prevailing state and federal statutes.
   (B)   Retention after age 70.
      (1)   If the City Council finds that the interests of the city will best
be served by allowing a person to remain in the employment of the city after
reaching 70 years of age because his or her services are especially needed or
his or her replacement would be especially difficult, the employee shall be
retained.
      (2)   Any such employee may be retained for successive one-year periods
until reaching the age of 75 upon the annual recommendation of the City
Administrator and approval of the Council.
§ 208.17 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Falsification of records. No person shall knowingly make any false
statement, certificate, mark, rating or report in regard to any test,
certificate or appointment held or made under the city personnel system or in
any manner commit or attempt to commit any fraud preventing the impartial
execution of the provisions of this part.
   (B)   Rendering of consideration. No person seeking employment or promotion
with the city shall either directly or indirectly give, render or pay any
money, service or other valuable consideration to any person, or on account of
or in connection with his or her test, employment or promotion, or proposed
employment or promotion.
   (C)   Discrimination. No person shall be employed, promoted, demoted or
discharged by the city or be in any way favored or discriminated against,
because of political opinion or affiliations, race, color, national origin,
religion, sex, marital status, status with regard to public assistance of
disability or because of the exercise of rights under provisions of the Public
Employment Labor Relations Act, M.S. Ch. 179A, as it may be amended from time
to time. No person who is between 18 and 70 years of age shall be discriminated
against with reference to city employment in any way forbidden by federal or
state law.
§ 208.18 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of §
208.17  of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment in the county
jail for not more than 90 days, or both, plus the cost of prosecution in any
case.
§ 208.19 USE OF CITY EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   City equipment and facilities to be used only for official business unless
authorized by the City Administrator or City Council or as a condition of the
employee’s employment.
§ 208.20 OUTSIDE EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   The city does not encourage the practice of regular employees working
at employment outside of the city services. Outside employment must not be
incompatible with the employee’s work in the municipal services.
   (B)   In the event that outside employment interferes with the employee’s
efficient and faithful performance of his or her duties as an employee of the
city, he or she shall be advised to choose between employment with the city and
outside employment. Failure to so choose will be automatic grounds for
dismissal.
§ 208.21 PERSONNEL FILE.
   A file shall be kept on all employees, which shall contain material
pertinent to their employment. All material shall be confidential and shall be
available for inspection by each individual employee upon request. All material
included in the file shall meet requirements as stated in the prevailing state
and federal statutes.
§ 208.22 POLITICAL ACTIVITIES; OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   All political activities and related actions shall be governed by prevailing
state and federal statutes.
§ 208.23 MISCELLANEOUS.
   Other personnel policy related issues including, but not limited to, job
description, wage and salary rates and schedules, purchasing policies, expense
allowances and reimbursements (postage, mileage and the like), group health and
medical insurance, employment review, affirmation action, rest and lunch
periods and other items the City Council declares necessary to be included in
personnel documents either follow or shall be attached to the ordinance through
resolution.
§ 208.24 PURCHASING POLICY.
   No employee shall order, purchase or contract for any good or service
contrary to the city’s purchasing policy, personnel ordinance or other
authorized document. Written authorization for all purchases must be obtained
in advance from the Personnel Officer or City Clerk through purchase orders.
All purchases will be subject to review and the City Council retains the right
to disallow any claims made against the city.
§ 208.25 EXPENSE REIMBURSEMENT.
   Employees shall be reimbursed for all reasonable work related expenses
(mileage, postage, materials, cost of workshops, training sessions,
conferences, schools, books and publications and the like). Expense claims
shall be filled out with receipts attached when possible and submitted by the
first Thursday of each month. Questionable claims may be disallowed. Mileage
reimbursement for use of personal car for city business is current IRS rate per
mile.
§ 208.26 GROUP HEALTH INSURANCE.
   See Res. 2002-34.
§ 208.27 EMPLOYMENT REVIEWS.
   (A)   Employment reviews will be held no later than two weeks before the end
of each new employees probationary period. The Personnel Officer and/or
Personnel Committee will perform this review with both the employee and his or
her supervisor present. The results will be then forwarded to the City Council.
The City Council may elect to personally review the employee.
   (B)   All employees will be reviewed semi-annually in October and April by
the Personnel Officer and/or Personnel Committee. The results will be then
forwarded to the City Council. The City Council may elect to personally review
the employee. Criteria for the job evaluations and/or employee reviews will be
compiled by the City Administrator. The City Council will examine, review,
adjust and approve this criteria as it sees fit.
§ 208.28 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION.
   An affirmative action plan will be developed if/when the City Council feels
it is necessary or if/when it is mandated by state or federal statutes.
§ 208.29 JOB DESCRIPTIONS.
   (A)   Chief of Police. Responsible for supervising, planning, organizing,
directing and evaluating operation of the Police Department. Schedules duty
shifts of police officer, develops annual budget proposal and controls budgeted
expenses, supervises maintenance of all records and materials associated with
law enforcement activities or administration, makes recommendations to City
Administrator and City Council on issuance of various licenses, permits and
items concerning Police Department matters, attends meetings and serves on
committees, boards and agencies related to promoting crime prevention and
improving law enforcement. Also, participates in patrolling and other police
functions for the protection of life and property in the city. Is responsible
for the enforcement of all federal, state and local statutes and ordinances
where applicable. Is hired on a full-time basis working between 40 and 48 hours
per week. Is a salaried position considered to be supervisory/administrative.
   (B)   Police officers. Officer is responsible for the public safety and law
enforcement in the city. Patrols as assigned, checks buildings for break-ins,
enforces traffic ordinances, investigates reported law violations, answers
complaints, interviews witnesses and preserves crime scenes and accident scenes
and evidence for the investigating officers; makes arrests, conducts searches
and surveillance; serves warrants, subpoenas and other court orders; books
prisoners, escorts prisoners; give testimony in court; directs traffic,
investigates traffic accidents, aids injured persons; investigates crimes,
prepares criminal investigation reports; provides crime prevention and juvenile
delinquency assistance and information to school children, merchants and the
general public; writes accurate and complete reports concerning law enforcement
and traffic accident reports, secures property related to crime and prisoners;
operates police vehicles, weapons, radios and related equipment; assists the
general public, provides information and directions. Officers will be hired
either on a part-time or full-time basis by the City Council.
   (C)   Street/Maintenance/Public Works Superintendent. Responsible for
supervising and directing general maintenance/public works activities including
the maintenance, repair and cleaning of buildings, streets, parks and other
public works related activities. Other duties include operating equipment such
as trucks, tractors, plow, grader, sweeper, mower and other equipment needed to
complete job assignments. Determines work priorities and resolves work
problems. Supervises city garage, plans and directs snow and ice removal,
prepares and justifies budget requests and controls budget expenditures. Also,
is the Assistant City Weed Inspector and Parks/Forestry Superintendent. Is
full-time salary position working between 40 to 48 hours per week.
   (D)   Parks/Forestry Superintendent. Prepares a proposed budget for the Park
and Forestry Department; directs the maintenance of existing parks and grounds,
including mowing and cleanup of parks, weed control enforcement, structure and
facilities maintenance, and garbage pickup; supervises the maintenance and
development of recreational facilities such as softball and baseball fields,
tennis courts and skating rinks; supervises the development and maintenance of
flower gardens; supervises the control of Dutch Elm Disease and the enforcement
of the Tree Ordinance, involving inspection and analysis of tree diseases, tree
removal and disposal and tree trimming, pruning and planting; evaluates and
updates plans for parks, recreation area, open spaces and natural resources
presentations for the city; assists engineering personnel with landscaping
details on road construction projects, including specifications for plant
materials and landscape construction details; interprets and promotes city park
plans and programs. Assigns work to, supervises and trains park maintenance
men, tree trimmers and equipment operators; supervises and participates in
grounds maintenance tasks such as mowing grass, trimming, edging and
fertilizing lawns; supervises the seeding and reseeding of parks and parkways;
supervises the setting of shrubbery and trees, spreading fertilizer, mulching
trees and shrubbery, and in weeding and cleaning lots and grounds; supervises
rough carpentry, cement work and fence building; may operated trucks, tractors,
mowing or other grounds equipment; supervises the cleaning of walks, fields,
courts and facilities; supervises the installation and maintenance of athletic
field equipment; inspects work of crew during and upon completion of work;
enforces safety precautions at job sites; keeps records of equipment and
material used, assist in Dutch Elm Disease and weed control programs.
   (E)   Maintenance/public works worker. Duties include maintenance of
building streets, water systems, sewer systems, parks and other public works
related activities. Other duties include operating equipment such as tractors,
trucks, plow, grader, sweeper, mower and other equipment needed to complete job
assignments. May be required to assist in reading water meters. Is responsible
to Streets/ Maintenance/Public Works Supervisor and Water/Wastewater Plant
Superintendent/Operator. Will typically be a part-time or temporary position
hired when needed, or when other governmental funds are available to fund
position. Paid on an hourly basis.
   (F)   Water/Wastewater Plant Superintendent/Operator. Operates and monitors
sewage treatment plant controls and equipment, and plant water system; checks
sludge level intakes; monitors plant controls; takes daily readings of control
panels and meters; changes pumps and does regular pump repair and maintenance;
does building maintenance and cleaning; operates and monitors water treatment
plant equipment and reducing stations; adjusts controls on treatment plant
equipment and machinery, such as valves, pumps, motors, chlorinators, filters,
chemical feeders and the like; regulates pressures and flow rates; reads and
records information taken from gauges, dials and other instruments; takes
chemical test samples, checking water at different stages of treatment for
chlorine residuals, hydrogen ion concentration (pH) and color; washes filters
and makes maintenance adjustments to filters as required; dumps bag chemicals
and inventories build chemicals; maintains daily treatment plant log; does
minor maintenance and repair work on plant and equipment. Performs the work of
repairing water mains, hydrants and valves, when appropriate, and either
installs or supervises installation of water mains, and installs or supervises
installment of sewer lines and services; checks, cleans and maintains sewer
lines and lift stations; checks excavation and back-filling of ditches for
water and sewer related construction; assists in instruction and training
persons in the methods of work and use of equipment; may do manual work in
construction, maintenance and cleaning of sewer and water lines. Repairs and
cleans mains and valve boxes when needed. Flushes and cleans mains and
hydrants; repairs main breaks; installs or supervises installation of laying
new sewer lines and services; cleans and replaces manhole covers and casting;
assists in sewer television inspection; checks and maintains lift stations
including painting, cleaning and lubricating motors and equipment. Removes and
resets, changes or repairs meters in place in the field; repairs valves, meter
vaults; tests meters for flow rates; disassembles meters, cleans, repairs or
replaces defective parts and reassembles meters; tests and calibrates meters
for accuracy after rebuilding them; reads meters and may turn on or out off
service; maintains records of part used and of specific meter numbers. Prepares
and justifies budget requests and controls budget expenditures. State water and
sewer license required. Position full- or part-time as determined by the City
Council and paid on hourly basis.
   (G)   Building Inspector. Skilled in the inspection work and the enforcement
of regulations governing structural building construction. Makes inspections
during the progress of building construction, alteration or repair to insure
compliance with building codes and zoning regulations; reviews plans and
specifications; checks quality of materials and methods of construction;
performs inspections of existing buildings for hazardous conditions, structural
failures or improper use; approves final inspections; certificates; issues
demolition, building, sidewalk, sign and curb cut permits; testifies on total
dollar amount of inspections per year. State certification required. Part-time
position working when needed.
   (H)   Typist/file clerk. Performs wide variety of responsible secretarial
and clerical tasks such as typing, mailing and filing; processes administrative
details not requiring immediate attention of supervisors, collects and compiles
information; prepares correspondence independently in assigned areas, answers
questions of public in person, by phone or in writing as accurately and
courteously as possible, exercises discretion in arranging appointments and
handling public contacts and plans and organizes a variety of clerical
activities. Position temporary or part-time when needed.
   (I)   City Clerk/Treasurer. Defined.
   (J)   City Administrator. Defined.
§ 208.30 REST AND LUNCH PERIODS.
   (A)   Every regular employee, when working under conditions where a break
period is practical, shall be granted a 20-minute break period in each half of
the employee’s shift. Each department head shall schedule rest periods so as
not to interfere with work requirements.
   (B)   Each employee shall be entitled to a lunch period during the middle of
each work day. An employee may take 30 minutes to one hour, depending upon the
needs of the department
§ 208.31 CRIMINAL HISTORY BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   Criminal history background.
      (1)   The city’s Police Department is authorized to do a criminal history
background investigation on applicants for positions with the city, unless the
city’s hiring authority concludes that a background investigation is not
needed. This applies only to applicants who are finalists for all paid
positions, whether salary or hourly, or to all volunteer positions with the
city.
      (2)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation in
order to screen employment or volunteer applicants, the city’s Police
Department is authorized to access data maintained in the state’s Bureau of
Criminal Apprehensions Computerized Criminal History information system in
accordance with BCA policy. Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be
maintained at the Police Department under the care and custody of the chief law
enforcement official or his or her designee. A summary of the results of the
computerized criminal history data may be released by the Police Department to
the hiring authority, including the City Council, City Administrator or other
city staff involved in the hiring process.
      (3)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake the
investigation. The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 13, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the collection,
maintenance and use of the information, except for the positions set forth in
M.S. § 364.09, as it may be amended from time to time, the city will not reject
an applicant for employment or volunteer on the basis of the applicant’s prior
conviction unless the crime is directly related to the position of employment
sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor
with a jail sentence. If the city rejects the applicant’s request on this
basis, the city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
         (a)   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
         (b)   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
         (c)   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for employment; and
         (d)   All competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered upon
reapplication.
   (B)   Applicants for license or permit issuance.
      (1)   Every applicant for a license or permit shall submit an application
to the City Administrator on a form provided by the city. It shall be
accompanied by payment of the prescribed fee.
      (2)   (a)   In conducting the criminal history background investigation
in order to screen license or permit applicants, the city’s Police Department
is authorized to access data maintained in the state’s Bureau of Criminal
Apprehensions Computerized Criminal History information system in accordance
with BCA policy.
         (b)   Any data that is accessed and acquired shall be maintained at
the Police Department under the care and custody of the chief law enforcement
official or his or her designee. A summary of the results of the computerized
criminal history data may be released by the Police Department to the hiring
authority, including the City Council, City Administrator or other city staff
involved in the licensing process.
      (3)   Before the investigation is undertaken, the applicant must
authorize the Police Department by written consent to undertake the
investigation.
         (a)   The written consent must fully comply with the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 13, as it may be amended from time to time, regarding the collection,
maintenance and use of the information, except for the positions set forth in
M.S. § 364.09, as it may be amended from time to time, the city will not reject
an applicant for a license or permit on the basis of the applicant’s prior
conviction unless the crime is directly related to the position of employment
sought and the conviction is for a felony, gross misdemeanor or misdemeanor
with a jail sentence.
         (b)   If the city rejects the applicant’s request on this basis, the
city shall notify the applicant in writing of the following:
            1.   The grounds and reasons for the denial;
            2.   The applicant complaint and grievance procedure set forth in
M.S. § 364.06, as it may be amended from time to time;
            3.   The earliest date the applicant may reapply for license or
permit; and
            4.   All competent evidence of rehabilitation will be considered
upon reapplication.
(Ord. 228, passed 4-17-2013)
PART IX. POLICE PERSONNEL POLICY
§ 209.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of the police personnel policy to establish a uniform and
equitable system of police personnel administration for all police employees of
the city.
§ 209.02 SCOPE.
   (A)   The personnel policy applies to all full-time and part-time police
employees of the city.
   (B)   (1)   The provisions of the city’s personnel policy found in §§
208.01 through
208.31 of this chapter applies to all police personnel.
      (2)   In the event the provisions herein are contrary to the city’s
personnel policy, the provisions herein shall control.
§ 209.03 PROCEDURE FOR INVESTIGATION AND RESOLUTION OF ALLEGATIONS OF
MISCONDUCT.
   (A)   Policy.
      (1)   A relationship of trust and confidence between Department members
and the community they serve is essential for effective law enforcement. Law
enforcement officers must be free to exercise their best judgment and to
initiate enforcement action in a lawful and impartial manner without fear and
reprisal. While at the same time, they must meticulously respect individual
rights.
      (2)   This complaint procedure is intended to provide corrective action
when a Department member conducts himself or herself improperly, and to protect
him or her from unwarranted criticism when he or she discharges his or her
duties properly.
      (3)   Any person who believes that a law enforcement act is improper is
encouraged to bring the complaint to the Department’s attention.
      (4)   The Department will make every effort to ensure that no adverse
consequences occur to any person or witness who brought a complaint or provided
information in any investigation of a complaint.
      (5)   Complaints shall be handled in a prompt, just, open and expeditious
manner in accordance with these procedures. Summaries of the complaint process
and copies of these procedures shall be made available to the public upon
request.
   (B)   Definition of terms. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHIEF. The Chief of Police or the City Attorney when a complaint is made
against the Police Chief.
      COMPLAINANT. The person or group who files a complaint with the
Department alleging misconduct by a member(s) or the Department supervisor who
accepts believable facts relating to alleged misconduct by a member from a
anonymous person.
      COMPLAINT. A statement that is made to a Department supervisor in
writing, in person or by phone which allege misconduct.
      EXONERATED. A fair preponderance of the evidence established either that:
         (a)   The act, or acts, complained of did not occur;
         (b)   The member(s) named in the complaint were not involved in the
alleged misconduct;
         (c)   The act(s) which provided the basis for the complaint occurred;
however, the investigation reveals that such act(s) were justified, lawful and
proper; or
         (d)   Such act(s) do not adversely reflect upon the Department or the
member’s ability to perform his or her duties within the Department.
      INFRACTION. Violation of any Department policy and procedure defining
transgressions that are not major violations.
      MAJOR VIOLATION.
         (a)   Any criminal offense;
         (b)   The use of unnecessary or excessive force;
         (c)   Abuse of authority;
         (d)   Conduct which violates a person’s civil rights;
         (e)   Abusive or insulting language or conduct that is derogatory of a
person’s race, religion, sex, national origin or sexual preference; and
         (f)   Intimidation of or recrimination toward a complaint or witness
involved in any complaint proceeding.
      MEMBER. All peace officers and civilian department employees whether
full-time, part-time or temporary.
      MISCONDUCT. Any infraction or major violation committed by a member that
adversely reflects upon the department or the member’s ability to perform his
or her duties within the department.
      NOT SUSTAINED. The investigation failed to disclose sufficient evidence
to prove or disprove the allegations(s) made in the complaint.
      POLICY AND PROCEDURES. The city’s Police Department maintains an
operations manual which addresses all of the policies and procedures regulating
the conduct of its officers. This operations manual complies with all
requirements mandated by the State Board of Peace Officer Standards and
Training, and is incorporated herein by reference.
      SUSTAINED. A fair preponderance of the evidence obtained in the
investigation established that the accused member’s actions constituted
misconduct.
   (C)   Procedure for initiating complaint.
      (1)   Anyone who is not a member and has personal knowledge of the facts
giving rise to the complaint or has reliable hearsay information may file a
complaint. Any department member who has personal knowledge of misconduct shall
file a complaint according to these procedures.
      (2)   There shall be a Supervisor available at all times who is
responsible for taking complaints. For all purposes herein, supervisor means
Chief of Police or the City Attorney when a complaint is made against the
Police Chief. Upon receiving any complaint, the Supervisor shall immediately
initiate an informal investigation and assign a case file number. The complaint
will not be considered filed until the complainant signs the complaint.
      (3)   If the person filing the complaint sets forth specific believable
facts relating to the alleged misconduct and the person wishes to remain
anonymous, the Supervisor receiving the information shall then become the
complainant. If the Supervisor has reason to believe that the complaint is
unfounded, the Supervisor shall have the authority to require the person to
identify himself or herself. If the person refuses to do so, the Supervisor may
refuse to initiate a complaint and shall advise the anonymous person of that
fact.
      (4)   After a complaint is filed, the Supervisor shall sign the document,
give or mail a copy to the complainant. The Chief will forward a copy of the
document to the accused member. If the decision is exonerated or not sustained,
the Chief shall immediately notify the complainant and the respondent of the
decision.
      (5)   A complainant may be accompanied by an attorney or other
appropriate representative at the time a complaint is filed or at any other
stage of the process.
   (D)   Procedure for investigation of the complaint.
      (1)   Upon completion of the informal investigation, the Chief shall make
an initial determination whether the facts alleged warrant a formal
investigation. In making this determination, the Chief may meet informally with
the complainant, accused member or any potential witness. if the Chief decides
that an investigation is not warranted, the disposition of the complaint shall
be either not sustained or exonerated. The complainant will be notified of this
decision and the basis for determination. In addition, the accused member will
be notified. If the complainant supplies additional information within 30 days
of the determination, the Chief may reverse this decision.
      (2)   If the Chief determines that a formal investigation should be
conducted, he or she shall begin to investigate the complaint immediately. The
investigation may be assigned to an external agency where there is the
potential for criminal charges resulting from the investigation or in any other
situation where the Chief believes that an external investigation is
appropriate. The Chief/investigator shall, as soon as possible after being
assigned the investigation. Inform the complainant of his or her name, business
phone number and the status of the complaint.
      (3)   The Chief/investigator shall thoroughly investigate all allegations
contained in the complaint and any other potential misconduct discovered in the
course of the investigation. If the investigation uncovers potential misconduct
by another member, the investigator shall initiate a complaint against that
member.
      (4)   All members, including the accused member, shall cooperate with the
investigation. Failure to cooperate may be basis for disciplinary action.
      (5)   The Chief/investigator shall do a report that shall contain all
relevant information, organized into the three following divisions.
         (a)   Allegations. This section consists of an itemized summary of the
acts of misconduct alleged in the complaint. References shall be made to those
rules. Procedures, orders, statutes or constitutional provisions that would be
violated if the allegations are taken as true.
         (b)   Investigation. This section shall consist of a chronological
summary of the investigation, including all pertinent facts obtained through
interviews with the complainant, accused member(s) and all available witnesses.
Written statements, description and analysis of any physical evidence and all
other relevant information shall be included.
         (c)   Conclusion(s). This section shall include the Chief/
investigators findings, conclusions as to whether any misconduct occurred, and
the underlying reasons for the findings and conclusions. These conclusions
shall not be binding on the Chief.
      (6)   (a)   The investigation shall be concluded within 30 days of the
filing of the complaint, unless for good cause an extension is granted by the
Chief.
         (b)   The complainant shall be informed of any extension of time and
the accused member shall also be informed if he or she was informed pursuant to
division (C)(4) above.
   (E)   Investigation review and disposition.
      (1)   Upon completion of the investigation, the Chief/investigator shall
submit his or her reports the case file and all investigative notes to the
Chief.
         (a)   If the Chief determines the investigation was not adequate, he
or she will reorder the investigation.
         (b)   If the Chief determines the investigation was adequate, the
Chief shall make one of the following dispositions: exonerated; not sustained;
or sustained.
      (2)   The Chief may withhold issuing a disposition until any related
criminal charges are resolved. The complainant shall be informed of this
decision and the accused shall also be informed if he or she was informed
pursuant to division (C)(4) above.
      (3)   If the complaint is either exonerated or not sustained, the Chief
shall immediately notify the complainant and the accused member of the
disposition.
      (4)   If the complaint is sustained, the Chief shall immediately bring
the complaint to the attention of the City Council. The Council shall,
thereupon, take appropriate action in accordance with the city’s personnel
policy, §§
208.01 through
208.31 of this chapter.
      (5)   This policy procedure shall not preclude other disciplinary
procedures for misconduct not initiated by citizen complaint.
      (6)   Complainants shall be advised of the status of their complaints by
mail in accordance herewith.
   (F)   Maintenance and disclosure of data.
      (1)   Disclosure to the complainant, accused member of the public of data
collected, created, received or maintained in connection with this policy and
procedure shall be governed by the state’s Government Data Practices Act, being
M.S. Ch. 13, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   All data collected, created or received by the department
concerning this policy and procedure shall be maintained in accordance with the
department’s retention schedule.
      (3)   The placement of the disposition report or other data in an
employee’s personnel file shall be governed by applicable collective bargaining
agreements and/or personnel policy.
§ 209.04 HOURS OF WORK/DUTIES.
   Officer hours, whether full or part time, should be consistent with the
requirements of the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act, and the general Henderson
Personnel Policy in Part VIII of this code of ordinances.
§ 209.05 WHEN ASSISTING OTHER DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   Generally, assistance would be requested for the following situations:
      (1)   Disaster (major fire, tornado, plane crash and the like);
      (2)   To control or suppress a disturbance or other local emergency;
      (3)   To prevent injury or death to an officer;
      (4)   A situation which presents great danger to human life; and
      (5)   For the assistance of other agencies as part of a mutual aid
agreement.
   (B)   Rules to be followed when assistance is requested from another
department:
      (1)   Assistance should be requested by the other agency’s Commanding
Officer or by the Sibley County Dispatch Center;
      (2)   Assistance to other agencies pursuant to a mutual aid agreement
shall follow the protocol set forth in said agreement; and
      (3)   The department requesting assistance shall be in charge of the
overall operation.
§ 209.06 WHEN AND WHEN NOT PUBLIC INFORMATION.
   (A)   Policies in general.
      (1)   It is the concern of this department to protect the identity of an
individual while he or she is under investigation or involved in an
investigation.
      (2)   An officer is prohibited from giving the names of individuals to
members of his or her immediate family, relative or member of the general
public that are under investigation or involved in an investigation.
      (3)   This is not public information until said individual(s) have been
formally charged and convicted in a court of law.
      (4)   An officer is prohibited from giving the name of a juvenile
offender to the public.
      (5)   All police personnel shall acquaint themselves and be familiar with
state law relating to data practices, M.S. §§ 13.02 et seq., as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (6)   All police personnel shall acquaint themselves and be familiar with
state law relating to retaining of records, M.S. §§ 15.17 et seq., as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (7)   All police personnel shall acquaint themselves and be familiar with
state law relating to government records, administration, M.S. §§ 138.17 et
seq., as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Information to the media. All information given to the media will be
by the Chief of Police.
PART X. ABANDONED PROPERTY
§ 210.01 ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Impoundment and sale. The city’s Police Department shall take into
custody and impound any abandoned motor vehicle as defined by M.S. § 168B.011,
as it may be amended from time to time. It shall give notice of the taking as
provided by law, and if the owner or any lienholder does not reclaim the
vehicle within the period provided by law, it shall provide for the sale of the
vehicle to the highest bidder at public auction or sale following two weeks’
published notice.
   (B)   Summary action in certain cases. When an abandoned motor vehicle is
more than seven model years of age, is lacking vital component parts, and does
not display a license plate currently valid in Minnesota or any other state or
foreign country, it shall immediately be eligible for sale under division (A)
above and shall not be subject to the notification, reclamation or title
provision of M.S. §§ 168B.01 to 168B.13, as they may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of the sale of an abandoned
motor vehicle shall be placed in the General Fund of the city. If the former
owner or entitled lienholder makes application and furnishes satisfactory proof
of ownership or lien interest with 90 days of the sale, he or she shall be paid
the proceeds of the sale of the vehicle less the cost of towing, preserving and
storing the vehicle and all administrative, notice and publication costs
incurred in its handling.
§ 210.02 OTHER ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Procedure. All other property lawfully coming into the possession of
the city shall be disposed of as provided in this section.
   (B)   Storage. The department of the city acquiring possession of the
property shall arrange for its storage. If city facilities for storage are
unavailable or inadequate, the department may arrange for storage at privately-
owned facilities.
   (C)   Claim by owner. The owner may claim the property by exhibiting
satisfactory proof of ownership and paying the city and any storage or
maintenance costs incurred by it. A receipt for the property shall be obtained
upon release to the owner.
   (D)   Sale. If the property remains unclaimed in the possession of the city
for 60 days, the property shall be sold to the highest bidder at a public
auction conduction by the Chief of Police of the city after two weeks’
published notice, setting forth the time and place of the sale and the property
to be sold.
   (E)   Disposition of proceeds. The proceeds of the sale shall be placed in
the General Fund of the city. If the former owner makes application and
furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership within six months of the sale, he or
she shall be paid the proceeds of the sale of his or her property, less the
cost of storage and the cost of published notice and other costs of the sale.
§ 210.03 STORAGE OF PROPERTY IN OPEN AREAS.
   (A)   No garages or home additions not on a permanent foundation and for
which no building permit has been obtained, used furniture, appliances,
inoperable equipment, garbage or other refuse shall be kept or stored outside
of an enclosed building or garbage disposal containers within the city.
   (B)   During construction or repair of property within the city, building
materials shall be stacked or stored in a neat and orderly fashion and in a
manner, so as to avoid presenting any danger to the general public. Refuse
building material shall be neatly piled or stored in garbage containers. All
building materials and refuse shall be cleared from the construction project no
later than within 180 days of the issuance of the use and building permit
authorizing said construction or repair unless the issuing authority extends
the time for completion.
   (C)   If the city determines that any person or company is in violation of
any provision of any section of this part, it shall serve upon said violator a
15-day warning notice, specifying the violation.
      (1)   If the violator has not corrected the condition to the satisfaction
of the city within 15 days after receiving the warning notice, the city may
remove or cause to be removed the vehicle, property or material which
constitutes the violation and charge the vehicle owner or operator, landowner
and/or building contractor responsible for the condition the cost of such
removal, plus the cost of storage or disposal of the item or items which
constituted the violation.
      (2)   If the assessed cost set out above is not paid within 30 days after
billing by the city, the city reserves the right to sell the property in
question and/or to assess such cost against real estate on which the violation
occurred, on the next real estate tax assessment role following the violation.
   (D)   If any violator who is served with a 15-day warning notice under
division (D) above, responds to such notice by moving the item which is in
violation to a new location within city limits which is also in violation and
the original 15-day warning notice grace period shall continue to run in the
same manner as if the violator had moved the item from the original location.
   (E)   Any person violating any provision of this part may be charged with a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of as much as $1,000 and/or imprisonment for
not more than 90 days. , Park, Public Property and Improvements
CHAPTER III: STREET, PARK, PUBLIC PROPERTY AND IMPROVEMENTS
Section
Part I. Street Excavations
   
301.01   Permit required
   
301.02   Application and regulations
   
301.03   Bond
   
301.04   General regulations for excavations
   
301.05   Refilling excavations
   
301.06   Map of subsurface installations
Part II. Assessable Current Services; Obligation of Property Owners and
Occupants
   
302.01   Definition
   
302.02   Snow, dirt, ice and rubbish
   
302.03   Weed elimination
   
302.04   Public health and safety hazards
   
302.05   Installation and repair of water service lines
   
302.06   Repair of sidewalks and alleys
   
302.07   Street improvements
Part III. Local Improvement Policy
   
303.01   Capital improvements
   
303.02   Payment of assessments
Part IV. Use of the Levee Within the City
   
304.01   Use of levee
   
304.02   Permitted uses
   
304.03   Violation
Part V. Use of Recreational Trail
   
305.01   Use of trail
   
305.02   Permitted uses
   
305.03   Violations
Part VI. City Parks
   
306.01   Hours
   
306.02   Personal conduct
   
306.03   Public safety; hunting
   
306.04   Environmental protection
   
306.05   Fires and refuse
   
306.06   Camping
   
306.07   Motor vehicles
   
306.08   Pets; livestock
   
306.09   Protection from peddling and soliciting
   
306.10   Sliding hill
   
306.11   Penalties
Part VII. Fair Housing
   
307.01   Declarations of fair housing policy; status with regard to public
assistance
   
307.02   Definitions
   
307.03   Prohibited acts in regards to housing
   
307.04   Enforcement procedures
   
307.05   Statutes of limitations
   
307.06   Civil enforcement procedure
Part VIII. Franchise
   
308.01   Cable television
   
308.02   Electric
   
308.03   Natural gas
Part IX. Appendix: Right-of-Way Regulations
   
309.01   Authority; enforcement
   
309.02   Definitions
   
309.03   Permit application
   
309.04   Issuance of permit; conditions
   
309.05   Permit fees
   
309.06   Patching and restoration
   
309.07   Supplementary applications; notification
   
309.08   Permit denial and revocation
   
309.09   Installation requirements; inspection
   
309.10   Work done without permit
   
309.11   Mapping data
   
309.12   Location of facilities
   
309.13   Damage to facilities
   
309.14   Right-of-way vacations
   
309.15   Abandoned facilities
   
309.16   Appeal
PART I. STREET EXCAVATIONS
§ 301.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, except an unauthorized city employee or a contractor
performing work under a contract with city, shall make any excavation in a
street, alley, sidewalk or public ground without first having secured a permit
therefor from the City Clerk.
   (B)   The fee for such permit shall be determined on a case by case basis,
but no fee shall be required for an excavation made pursuant to a permit for
sewer or water construction.
§ 301.02 APPLICATION AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Clerk shall prepare the necessary application forms and permits
required under §
301.01 of this chapter. He or she shall also prepare such rules and regulations
with respect to excavations found necessary to protect the public from injury,
prevent damage to public or private property and minimize interference with the
public use of streets, alleys, sidewalks and public grounds. Any person making
an excavation covered by this part shall comply with such rules and
regulations.
§ 301.03 BOND.
   (A)   Any permittee, except a public utility corporation or a bonded
plumber, shall file with the City Clerk a performance bond or payment in an
amount set by state statute, conditioned that the permittee will, as a minimum:
      (1)   Perform work in connection with the excavation in accordance with
applicable ordinances and resolutions;
      (2)   Indemnify the city and hold it harmless from all damage caused in
the execution of such work; and
      (3)   Pay all costs and damages suffered by the city by reason of the
failure of the permittee to observe the terms of applicable ordinances and
regulations because of negligence in the execution of the work.
   (B)   The City Council reserves the right to impose further conditions upon
the permittee; the conditions shall be agreed to by the permittee before the
permit is issued.
   (C)   The bond shall be approved as to form legality by the City Attorney.
Any permittee, except a public utility corporation, shall furnish proof that
the permittee has in existence and insurance policy protecting him or her from
liability to the public, including the city, to any amount equal to the maximum
claim the city might be required to pay under M.S. Ch. 466, as it may be
amended from time to time.
§ 301.04 GENERAL REGULATIONS FOR EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Street openings shall be made in a manner that will cause the least
inconvenience to the public. Provisions shall be made for the passage of water
along the gutters and at least one-half of the traveled portion of the street
shall be left open and in good condition for the safe passage of vehicles.
Pipes or mains exposed to freezing temperatures shall be protected so as to
prevent freezing.
   (B)   Open excavations shall be guarded with substantial barriers and marked
with appropriate flags and at night with appropriate lights or flashing
devices. Any person responsible for exposing a city main or pipe so that it
might be damaged by freezing shall be liable to the city for all damages caused
by such freezing and all damages sustained by others by such freezing for which
the city may be liable.
§ 301.05 REFILLING EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Every street excavation shall be refilled and compacted as soon as
possible after the work is completed and paving, sidewalks and appurtenances
shall be replaced in at least as good condition as before the excavation to the
satisfaction of the Street Superintendent. All dirt and debris shall be removed
immediately.
   (B)   Any person who fails to comply with these requirements within 24 hours
after notice from the city shall be liable to the city for the full cost
incurred by the city in remedying the defect and restoring the street,
sidewalk, alley or public ground to its proper condition.
§ 301.06 MAP OF SUBSURFACE INSTALLATIONS.
   The city shall maintain a map showing the location of all utility and other
installations made beneath the surface of any public street, grounds or right-
of-way, the information on the map shall be sufficiently complete and accurate
to permit any one making an excavation in a public place having an underground
installation to avoid damage to any existing underground installation and to
locate properly any new underground facilities and shall be recorded on the map
as soon as practicable upon the issuance of an excavation permit or the
completion of a contract for the installation of city underground
installations.
PART II. ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES; OBLIGATION OF PROPERTY OWNERS AND
OCCUPANTS
§ 302.01 DEFINITION.
   The term CURRENT SERVICE, as used in this part, means one or more of the
following: snow, ice or rubbish removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from
street grass plots adjacent to sidewalks or from private property; removal or
elimination of public health or safety hazards from private property, excluding
any hazardous building included in M.S. §§ 463.15 to 463.26, as they may be
amended from time to time; installation or repair of water service lines;
street sprinkling, street flushing, light street oiling or other dust treatment
of streets; repair of sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and
removal of unsound and insect-infected trees from the public streets or private
property; and the operation of a street lighting system.
§ 302.02 SNOW, DIRT, ICE AND RUBBISH.
   (A)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep such walk
safe for pedestrians. No such owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 12 hours after its deposit thereon.
   (B)   Removal by city. The Street Commissioner/Superintendent, or his or her
appointed or designated official, shall remove from all public sidewalks all
snow, ice, dirt or rubbish as soon as possible beginning 12 hours after any
such matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. He
or she shall keep a record showing the cost of such removal adjacent to each
separate lot and parcel and shall deliver such information to the City Clerk.
§ 302.03 WEED ELIMINATION.
   (A)   Weeds as a nuisance. Any weeds, whether noxious as defined by law or
not, growing upon any lot or parcel of land outside the traveled portion of any
street or alley in the city to a greater height than six to eight inches or
which have gone or about to go to seed are a nuisance on such property and on
land outside the traveled portion of the street abutting on such property.
   (B)   Notice. On or before June 1 each year and at such other times as
ordered by resolution of the Council, the notice shall be published once in the
official newspaper directing owners and occupants of property within the city
to destroy all weeds declared by division (A) above to be nuisance and stating
that if not so destroyed by the property owner, the Street Commissioner, at the
expense of the owner, shall mow or destroy the nuisance weeds, and that if not
paid, the charge for such work will be made a special assessment against the
property owner concerned.
   (C)   Removal by city.
      (1)   If the owner/occupant of any property fails to comply with the
notice within ten days after its publication, the Street Commissioner shall cut
and remove such weeds.
      (2)   He or she shall keep a record showing the cost of such work
attributable to each separate lot and parcel and shall deliver such information
to the City Clerk.
§ 302.04 PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY HAZARDS.
   When the city removes or eliminates public health or safety hazards from
private property under city ordinance, the administrative office responsible
for doing the work shall keep record of the cost of such removal or elimination
to the City Clerk. This section does not apply to the Hazardous Building Law,
M.S. §§ 463.15 to 463.26, as they may be amended from time to time.
§ 302.05 INSTALLATION AND REPAIR OF WATER SERVICE LINES.
   Whenever the city installs or repairs water service lines serving private
property under
Ch. IV of this code, the Utility Superintendent, or his or her designated
official, shall keep a record of the total cost of the installation or repair
against the property and deliver such information to the City Clerk annually as
to each parcel of property on which the cost has not been paid.
§ 302.06 REPAIR OF SIDEWALKS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Duty of owner. The owner of any property within the city abutting a
public sidewalk or alley shall keep the sidewalk in repair and safe for
pedestrians. Repairs shall be made in accordance with the standard
specifications approved by the Council.
   (B)   Inspection; notice. The Street Commissioner shall make such
inspections as are necessary to determine that public sidewalks and alleys
within the city are kept in repair and safe for pedestrians or vehicles. If he
or she finds that any sidewalk or alley abutting on private property is unsafe
and in need of repairs, he or she shall cause a notice to be served, by
registered or certified mail or by personal service, upon the record owner of
the property and the occupant, if the owner does not reside within the city or
cannot be found therein, ordering such owner to have the sidewalk or alley
repaired and made safe within ten days and stating that if the owner fails to
do so, the Street Commissioner will do so on behalf of the city, that the
expense thereof must be paid by the owner and that, if unpaid, it will be made
a special assessment against the property concerned.
   (C)   Repair by city. If the sidewalk or alley is not repaired within ten
days after receipt of the notice, the Street Commissioner shall report the
facts to the Council and the Council shall, by resolution, order the Street
Commissioner to repair the sidewalk or ally and make it safe or order the work
done by contract in accordance with the law. The Street Commissioner shall keep
a record of the total cost of the repair attributable to each lot or parcel of
property and report such information to the City Clerk.
§ 302.07 STREET IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Proposed projects. The Council shall, each year, determine, through
its capital improvements plan by resolution, motion or administrative
authorization, which streets and alleys shall be oiled, replaced, repaired and
the like during the year including the type of work to be done and the amount
of capital to be spent.
   (B)   Hearing; order. Hearing requirements as described in this part and as
per state statute shall be followed when required or if deemed appropriate by
the City Council.
PART III. LOCAL IMPROVEMENT POLICY
§ 303.01 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   Any and all capital improvements to the city shall be in accordance with the
comprehensive city plan, capital improvements plan and the city budget.
§ 303.02 PAYMENT OF ASSESSMENTS.
   Any assessment levied by the city may be paid either in full or partially at
any time before November 15 of each calendar year to the City Clerk. Such
assessment payments may be made in dollar increments of $50, up to the full
amount of the outstanding assessment. Payments shall be accepted after November
5 of each year, but may only be applied to outstanding assessments not already
certified for payment to the County Auditor for payment with the next year’s
taxes.
PART IV. USE OF THE LEVEE WITHIN THE CITY
§ 304.01 USE OF LEVEE.
   No person shall be permitted to use any portion of the levee surrounding and
within the city for any purpose, without the prior consent of the City Council,
unless said use is a permitted use as designated herein.
§ 304.02 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted to the extent that they are not prohibited
by any other ordinance and done in designated are:
   (A)   Walking, hiking, horseback riding, bicycling and snowmobile riding;
   (B)   Ingress and egress by adjoining landowners for purposes of hauling
and/or transporting farm machinery and other equipment and for other personal
use; and
   (C)   Any of the above enumerated uses shall be exercised in a reasonable
fashion. Reasonableness to be governed by factors including, but not limited
to, weather conditions, time of day or night, visibility and the like.
§ 304.03 VIOLATION.
   Any violation of this part shall constitute a misdemeanor.
PART V. USE OF RECREATIONAL TRAIL
§ 305.01 USE OF TRAIL.
   No person shall be permitted to use any portion of the Henderson Trail
System within and surrounding the city for any purpose, without the prior
consent of the City Council, unless said use is a permitted use as designated
herein.
§ 305.02 PERMITTED USES.
   The following uses are permitted uses in designated areas:
   (A)   Walking, hiking, horseback riding, bicycling and snowmobile riding
where authorized;
   (B)   Ingress and egress by adjoining landowners; and
   (C)   Any of the above enumerated uses shall be exercised in a reasonable
fashion. (Reasonableness shall be governed by factors, including, but not
limited to, weather, conditions, time of day or night, visibility and the
like.)
§ 305.03 VIOLATIONS.
   Any violations of this part shall constitute a misdemeanor.
PART VI. CITY PARKS
§ 306.01 HOURS.
   (A)   City parks will be open each day of the year from 7:00 a.m. to 10:00
p.m., except by permit.
   (B)   After 10:00 p.m. and until 7:00 a.m., no person shall enter or remain
within a city park unless he or she is a member of a registered camping party
or has obtained the consent of the city.
§ 306.02 PERSONAL CONDUCT.
   No person shall use a public address system, amplifier or power equipment,
or otherwise make noise with volume tending reasonable to arouse alarm, anger
or resentment in other park users, without prior permission of appropriate city
official.
§ 306.03 PUBLIC SAFETY; HUNTING.
   (A)   While in a city park, it is unlawful to:
      (1)   Possess explosives of any kind;
      (2)   Possess a firearm, including an air gun, unless the firearm is
unloaded both in barrel and magazine, and completely contained in a gun case
expressly made of that purpose, which is fully enclosed by being zipped,
snapped, buckled, tied or otherwise fastened, or unless unloaded and contained
in the trunk of a car with the trunk door closed;
      (3)   Possess a bow and arrows, unless either unstrung or completely
contained in a case or contained in the trunk of a car with the trunk door
closed; and/or
      (4)   Use or display any other type of weapon including, but not limited
to, sling shots, switchblade knives and traps.
   (B)   No person shall, either directly or indirectly, hunt, trap, molest,
harass, pursue, capture or kill any of the wildlife species with the city
parks. However, hunting shall be allowed on United States Fish and Wildlife
areas located within the city limits.
§ 306.04 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.
   The environment is for the enjoyment of all. Therefore, no person shall
disturb, destroy, injure, damage, molest or remove any city property,
including, but not limited to, wild flowers or vegetation of any kind, dead or
alive, ruins, wildlife, geological formations, signs or facilities. Collections
for scientific and educational purposes may be made with the written consent of
the City Council.
§ 306.05 FIRES AND REFUSE.
   (A)   It is unlawful to build a fire that creates a hazard or danger to the
area or to others. There shall be no bonfires. Campfires are permitted only in
designated areas.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or Park Superintendent may limit or ban fires when it
is determined that a fire emergency exists. Such declaration will be posted
conspicuously at the entrance of the affected area.
   (C)   State statutes forbidding littering are incorporated herein by
reference.
   (D)   Where refuse receptacles are provided, they shall only be used for
refuse generated at the area. Refuse is to be removed from the areas where
receptacles are not provided.
§ 306.06 CAMPING.
   (A)   There shall be no camping or overnights in any city public area
without a permit.
   (B)   No person shall camp or remain overnight in any city public area
without first registering by obtaining a camping permit. Such camping permits
may be obtained upon application to the city’s Police Department or at the city
office.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to install or affix in a permanent
manner in any camping facility, equipment or structure.
   (D)   The placement of tent stakes or anchors in the ground for the erection
of tents is permitted. Digging or excavating is prohibited.
   (E)   In camping areas, the hours between 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. are for
outdoor solitude and it shall be unlawful to make noise at a level above that
of a quiet conversation.
§ 306.07 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No motor vehicle or trailer vehicle shall be parked in other than the
designated parking spaces, or in such a manner as to obstruct the avenue of
ingress or egress to the areas, except for the purpose of unloading equipment.
   (B)   Motor vehicles may be operated only upon the native roads and parking
areas, and may be parked only in such designated areas. They may not be driven
on roads that are posted, chained, graded or where such motor vehicles are
prohibited.
   (C)   Motor vehicles shall not be operated in excess of ten mph in an alley
or 30 mph on a city street, nor in a negligent, reckless or careless manner.
   (D)   Motor vehicles must be parked on a gravel, asphalt, or concrete
surface. Motor vehicles shall not be parked on the grass, lawn, or dirt area of
any residential property, except during duly declared snow emergencies.
   (E)   Motor vehicles must be operable and in good working order when parked
at, or stored at or on, a residential property in the city.
   (F)   Disused motor vehicles, junked vehicles, inoperable vehicles cannot be
stored in the open on residential property in the city’s limits.
   (G)   All motor vehicles parked or stored at or on a property in the city
must have current registration.
(Ord. 238, passed 6-21-2023)
§ 306.08 PETS; LIVESTOCK.
   (A)   Pets are permitted; provided, no person shall allow a cat, dog or
other pet animal to enter any building without permission; or permit any dog,
cat or other pet animal to be unrestrained. Such animal shall be personally
attended, and shall not deprive or disrupt the enjoyment or use of any area by
other persons.
   (B)   No person shall permit livestock in any city park with the express
prior written permission of the city’s Police Department.
§ 306.09 PROTECTION FROM PEDDLING AND SOLICITING.
   It is unlawful for any person to engage in or solicit business of any
nature, whatsoever, from visitors, without the prior written consent of the
city’s Police Department.
§ 306.10 SLIDING HILL.
   (A)   In any area designated as a sliding hill by the city, policies as
hereby authorized to be adopted by this section shall apply and govern
operation.
   (B)   Winter weeks the sliding hill is open to the public each year will be
determined by the amount of snowfall and weather conditions. The opening date
shall be decided by the appropriate city officials. Public notice will be
provided by signs posted at the site, notice in the newspaper or a combination
thereof.
   (C)   The sliding hill is not open to the public for any use or at any
season or time other than those stated in the above-authorized policy.
   (D)   Any person found in violation of this section may be banned from the
area as per the policy adopted for operation.
§ 306.11 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating all or a section of this part shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any member of the city’s Police Department may revoke the privileges
allowed under this part if any person or persons is/are found to be in
violation of this part.
PART VII. FAIR HOUSING
§ 307.01 DECLARATIONS OF FAIR HOUSING POLICY; STATUS WITH REGARD TO PUBLIC
ASSISTANCE.
   Discrimination with regard to housing in the basis of race, sex, creed,
religion, marital status and disability adversely affects the health, welfare,
peace and safety of the community. Persons subject to such discrimination
suffer depressed living conditions, and create conditions that endanger the
public peace and order. The public policy of the city is declared to be and
foster equal opportunity for all to obtain decent, safe and sanitary housing
without regard to race, creed, color, notional origin, marital status, sex and
strictly in accord with his, her, or their individual merits as human beings.
It is also the policy of the city to protect all persons from all unfounded
charges of discrimination.
§ 307.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this part, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISABILITY. A mental or physical condition that constitutes a handicap.
Nothing in this part shall be constructed to prohibit any program, service,
facility or privilege afforded to a person with a DISABILITY, which is intended
to habitat, rehabilitation or accommodate that person.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Includes segregate or separate.
   MARITAL STATUS. The standing, state or condition of one as a single or
married person.
§ 307.03 PROHIBITED ACTS IN REGARDS TO HOUSING.
   (A)   It shall be an unlawful discriminatory practice and a misdemeanor
offense:
      (1)   For any person to discriminate on grounds of race, creed, religion,
color, sex, marital status, status with regard to public assistance, national
origin, age or disability, in the sale, lease or rental of any housing unit or
units;
      (2)   For any broker, agent, salesperson or other person acting in behalf
of another to so discriminate in the sale, lease or rental of any housing unit
or units belonging to such other person;
      (3)   For any person engaged in the business of financing the purchase,
rehabilitation, remodeling or repair of housing units or in the business of
selling insurance with respect to housing units to refuse to provide such
financing or insurance or to discriminate with regard to the terms or
conditions thereof by reason of the race, color, sex, religion, creed, national
origin, marital status, status with regard to public location of the unit or
units in areas of the city occupied by persons of a particular race, color,
sex, religion, creed, national origin, marital status, status with regard to
public assistance, age or disability; or to discriminate by treating
differently any person, group of persons who desire to purchase, lease,
acquire, construct, rehabilitate, repair or maintain real property in a
specific urban area because of social, economic or environmental conditions of
the areas in the granting, withholding, extending, modifying or renewing, or in
the rates, terms, conditions or privileges of any such financial assistance or
in the extension of services in connection therewith. The bona fide programs of
federal, state or local governmental units or agencies, however, instructed or
authorized to upgrade or improve in any manner a specific urban area shall not
be seemed to be a violation of this section;
      (4)   For any person, having sold, leased or rented a housing unit or
units to any person, to discriminate with respect to facilities, services or
privileges of occupancy by reason of race, color, sex, creed, religion,
national origin, age or disability, marital status or state with regard to
public assistance;
      (5)   For any person to make or publish any statement evidencing an
intent to discriminate, on grounds of race, creed, religion, color, sex,
national origin or ancestry, marital status, status with regard to public
assistance, age disability, in the sale, lease or rental of a housing unit or
units;
      (6)   For any person to make any inquiry regarding race, color, sex,
creed, religion, national origin, marital status, status with regard to public
assistance, age or disability, or to keep any record or use and form of
application, designed to elicit such information, in connection with the sale,
lease, rental or financing of a housing unit or units; and
      (7)   For any person, for the purpose of inducing a real estate
transaction from which he or she may benefit financially:
         (a)   To represent that a change has occurred or will or may occur in
the composition of the block, neighborhood, area in which the property is
located, in respect of the race, color, sex, creed, religion, national origin,
marital status, status with regard to public assistance, age or disability of
those living there; or
         (b)   To represent that this change will or may result in the lowering
of property values, an increase in crime or antisocial behavior or a decline in
the quality of schools in the block, neighborhood or area concerned.
   (B)   Nothing in this part shall be constructed to require any person or
group of persons selling, renting or leasing property to modify the property in
any way, or exercise a higher degree of care for a person having a disability
than for a person construed to relieve any person or person of any obligations
generally imposed on all persons regardless of any disability in a written
lease, rental agreement, or contract or purchase or sale, or to forbid
distinctions based on the inability to fulfill the terms and conditions,
including financial obligations of such lease, agreement or contract.
   (C)   The provisions of this part shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   The rental of a portion of a dwelling containing accommodations for
two families, one of which is occupied by the owner; or
      (2)   The rental by an owner of occupier of a one-family accommodation in
which resides of a room or rooms in such accommodations to another person or
persons if the discrimination is by sex, marital status, status with regard to
public assistance or disability.
      (3)   Nothing in this part shall be concurred to require any person or
group of persons selling, renting or leasing property in any way, or exercise a
higher decree of care for a person having a disability than for a person who
does not have a disability; nor shall this part be construed to relieve any
person or persons of any obligations generally imposed on all persons
regardless of any disability in a written lease, rental agreement or contract
of purchase or sale, or to forbid distinction based on the inability to fulfill
the terms and conditions, including financial obligations or such lease,
agreement or contract.
§ 307.04 ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Council, in and for the city, is designated as the
enforcement agency for this part and shall have the power to receive, hear and
determine complaints as provided herein.
   (B)   The City Council shall promptly investigate, upon complaint or upon it
own motion, any violations of this part. If, after investigation, it shall have
reason to believe a violation has occurred, it may refer the matter to the City
Attorney for criminal persecution, initiate civil enforcement procedures as
herein provided, or enter into a settlement agreement which, when approved by
the City Council and affected persons shall have the same force as an order.
§ 307.05 STATUTES OF LIMITATIONS.
   No action may be brought for civil enforcement or criminal prosecution
unless the charge of alleged discriminatory practice was filed with the city
within 180 days from the occurrence of the practice.
§ 307.06 CIVIL ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE.
   Civil enforcement procedures shall be prosecuted by the City Attorney before
the City Council in the following manner.
   (A)   The City Attorney shall serve upon the respondent by certified mail a
complaint, signed by him or her, which shall set forth a clear and concise
statement of the facts constituting the violation, set a time and place for
hearing, and advise the respondent of his or her right to file an answer to
appear in person or by an attorney and to examine and cross-examine witnesses.
   (B)   The hearing shall not be less than 20 days after service of the
complaint. At any time prior to the hearing, the respondent may file an answer.
Facts not denied by answer shall be seemed admitted.
If the answer sets out new matter, it shall be seemed denied by the City
Council.
   (C)   The complaint or answer may be amended at any given item prior to the
hearing with the consent of the opposing party.
   (D)   Hearings shall be before the City Council.
   (E)   The City Council may obtain subpoenas from the District Court to
compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of documents at any
hearing.
   (F)   If, after hearing, the panel concludes that a violation has occurred,
it shall prepare an order which may contain any provision deemed desirable to
do justice to the complaint or to prevent further violations. It may include
provisions that require housing be provided to the complainant or to do any
other thing as may be just. The panel’s proposed findings of fact and order
shall be served on the respondent and each member of the complainant by mail
shall become the final findings and order of the panel unless, within ten days
after mailing of the findings and order, the panel shall revoke or amend the
order.
PART VIII. FRANCHISE
§ 308.01 CABLE FRANCHISE.
   (A)   An ordinance, including addendum with exhibits, granting a franchise
to CMN-RUS (Metronet), incorporated, to operate and maintain a cable
communication system in the city; setting forth conditions accompanying the
grant of franchise; providing regulation, and use of the system; and
prescribing penalties for the violation of its provisions, is hereby adopted.
   (B)   The city shall follow rules relating to cable rate regulation
promulgated by the Federal Communications Commission in 47 C.F.R. part 76,
subpart N.
(Ord. 236, passed 1-19-2022)
§ 308.02 ELECTRIC.
   (A)   Furnishing electric energy. This section grants the Northern States
Power Company, a Minnesota corporation, its successors and assigns, permission
to construct, operate, repair and maintain within the city an electric
distribution system and transmission lines, including necessary poles, pole
lines, fixtures and appurtenances, for the furnishing of electric energy to the
city and its inhabitants and others, and to use the public ways and public
grounds of the city for such purposes.
   (B)   Granting rights. There be and hereby is granted to Northern States
Power Company, a Minnesota corporation, it successors and assigns, hereinafter
referred to as “company” during the period of 20 years from the date hereof,
the right and privilege of construction, operating, repairing and maintaining,
in, on, over, under and across the streets, alleys and public grounds of the
City of Henderson, Sibley County, Minnesota, hereinafter referred to as “city”,
and electric distribution system and electric transmission lines, including
poles, pole lines and fixtures and appurtenances, usually conveniently, or
necessarily used in connection therewith, of the purpose of transmitting and
furnishing electric energy for light, heat, power and other purposes for public
and private use in and to the city and the inhabitants thereof, and others, and
for the purpose of transmitting into and through the city electric energy, so
located as in no way to interfere with the safety and convenience of ordinary
travel along and over the streets, alleys and public grounds; and, provided
that, the company, in the construction, operation, repair and maintenance of
poles, pole lines and fixtures and appurtenances, shall be subject to such
reasonable regulation as may be imposed by the City Council.
   (C)   Service and rates. The service to be provided and the rates to be
charged by company for electric service in the city shall be subject to the
jurisdiction of the Public Utilities Commission of the state. The company shall
provide reasonably efficient and adequate service to members of the public
within the city who apply for service in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the company.
   (D)   Right-of-way. There is also granted to the company, during the term
hereof, permission and authority to trim all trees and shrubs in the streets,
alleys and public grounds of the city which may interfere with the proper
construction, operation, repair and maintenance of any poles, pole lines and
fixtures and appurtenances installed in pursuance of the authority hereby
granted; provided that, the company shall save the city harmless from any
liability in the premises.
   (E)   Hold harmless.
      (1)   The company shall indemnify, keep and hold city free and harmless
from any and all liability on account of injury to persons or damage to
property occasioned by the construction, maintenance, repair or operation of
company’s electric facilities located in, on, over, under or across the public
ways and public grounds of city, unless the injury or damage grows out of the
negligence of the city, its employees or agents, or results from the
performance in a proper manner of acts reasonably deemed hazardous by the
company, but the performance is nevertheless ordered or directed by the city
after notice of the company’s determination.
      (2)   In the event a suit shall be brought against the city under
circumstances where the above agreement to indemnify applies, the company at
its sole cost and expense shall defend the city in suit if written notice
thereof is promptly given to the company within a period wherein the company is
not prejudice by lack of the notice. If the notice is not reasonably given as
herein before provided, the company shall have no duty to indemnify nor defend,
it will thereafter have complete control of the litigation, but the company may
not settle the litigation without the consent of the city, which consent shall
not be unreasonably withheld. This otherwise available to the city; and the
company, in defending any action on behalf of the city shall be entitled to
assert in any action every defense or immunity that the city could assert in
its own behalf.
   (F)   Notice of vacation. The city shall give the company at least two
weeks’ prior written notice of a proposed vacation of a public way. Except
where required solely for a city improvement project, the vacation of any
public way, after the installation of electric facilities, shall not operated
to deprive the company of its rights to operate and maintain the electric
facilities until the reasonable cost of relocating the same and the loss and
expense resulting from the relocation are first paid to the company. In no
case, however, shall the city be liable to the company for failure to
specifically preserve a right-of-way under M.S. § 160.29, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (G)   Assignment of rights. The company shall have full right and authority
to assign to any person, persons, firm or corporation all rights conferred upon
it by this chapter; provided that, the assignee of the rights, by accepting the
assignment, shall become subject to the terms and provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   Writer acceptance. The company shall, if it accepts this chapter and
the rights and obligations hereby granted, file a written acceptance of the
rights hereby granted with the City Clerk within 90 days after the final
passage and any required publication of this chapter.
   (I)   Franchise agreement. Upon adoption of this chapter, the city has the
right to renegotiate a franchise agreement with the company per state statutes
as enforced by the state’s Public Utilities Commission.
Editor’s note:
   Ord. 225, passed 12-21-2011, adopted a franchise fee on the Northern States
Power (d/b/a Xcel Energy) electricity franchise. See Attachment A of the
ordinance for the most current rates.
§ 308.03 NATURAL GAS.
   (A)   Granting rights. There be and hereby is granted to Northwest Natural
Gas Company, a corporation, its lessees, successors and assigns (hereinafter
referred to as the “grantee”), be and are hereby granted a non-exclusive
authority for a period of 25 years to erect and maintain a gas plant and/or gas
system and any and all necessary mains, pipes, services and other appliances
thereunto appertaining in, upon, over, across and along the streets, alleys,
bridges and public places in the city, for the transmission, distribution and
sale of natural and/or propane gas for heating, industrial and all other uses
and purposes in the city.
   (B)   Construction/excavation.
      (1)   Whenever the grantee, in construction or maintenance of its system
or in the installation of any extension thereto, shall cut into or take up any
pavement or shall make any excavation in any street, avenue, alley or public
places, within the corporate limits of the city, the same shall be done in a
manner as not to interfere with the use of thoroughfares by the public. The
grantee shall use any safeguards as may be necessary to prevent injury to
persons or property during the construction work, and upon its completion, all
pavement shall be replaced in as good condition as it was before taken up.
      (2)   All excavations shall be refilled and all obstructions shall be
removed at the expense of the grantee and to the satisfaction of the grantor.
In the event that the grantee shall fail to comply with the provisions of this
section after having been given reasonable notice, the grantor may do such work
as may be needed to properly repair the thoroughfare and the cost thereof shall
be repaid to the grantor by the grantee.
   (C)   Non-interference. The grantee, in erecting and maintaining the gas
distribution system, and in entering and using the streets, highways, avenues,
alleys and public places in the city and inlaying it gas equipment, shall not
in any manner interfere with or injure any improvement which the city, now has
or may hereafter have upon any of its streets, alleys, highways or public
places.
   (D)   Maintenance and operation. The grantee agrees, for and in behalf of
itself, its lessees, successors and assigns, that, for and during the term and
period of this grant, it will maintain in the city an adequate modern, standard
and sufficient gas system and equipment and to maintain and operate the same in
a modern and adequate fashion and in a manner adequate to meet the necessities
and requirements of the city, its industries and inhabitants; provided,
however, that, no obligation shall extend to, or be binding upon the grantee to
construct or extend its mains or furnish natural and/or propane gas or gas
service within the city if the grantee is, for any reasons, unable to obtain
delivery of natural and/or propane gas at or near the corporate limits of the
city or an adequate supply thereof to warrant the construction or extension of
its mains, for the furnishing of such natural and/or propane gas or gas
service; provided further that, when the amount natural and/or propane gas
supplied to the grantee at or near the city limits of the city is sufficient to
meet the additional firm requirements of connected or new consumers, the
grantee shall have the right to prescribe reasonable rules and regulations for
allocating the available supply of natural and/or propane gas for additional
firm requirements to domestic, commercial and industrial consumers in that
order of priority.
   (E)   Regulation and control. The grantee agrees, for and in behalf of
itself, its lessees, successors and assigns, that all authority and rights in
this chapter contained, shall at all times be subject to all rights, power and
authority now or hereafter possessed by the city to regulate rates, control and
direct or otherwise by ordinance or resolution legislate concerning the
franchise herein granted and concerning the manner in which the grantee shall
use the streets, alleys, bridges and public places of the city and concerning
the manner in which the grantee shall use and enjoy the franchise herein
granted.
   (F)   Pressure maintenance. The grantee shall, at all times, maintain an
adequate pressure and supply of clean, standard gas of British Thermal Unit
heating value as fixed in the rate schedule, plus or minus 50 British Thermal
Units per cubic foot of gas. Should the monthly average of British Thermal
Units vary more than 50 from the value in rate schedule, the rate then in
effect shall be automatically and correspondingly adjusted during any period or
periods of time in which different British Thermal Unit value shall be
furnished.
   (G)   Hold harmless. The grantee shall hold the grantor harmless for any and
all claims, actions, litigation or damage arising out of the passage of this
chapter or of the construction, erection, installations, maintenance or
operation of it properties operated by authority of this chapter within the
corporate limits of the city or the negligence of its employees in the
operation thereof, including the court costs and reasonable attorney fees in
making defense against such claims. A copy of the process served upon the
grantor shall be served by the grantor upon the grantee. The grantee shall have
the right to defend in the name of the grantor and to employ counsel for such
purposes.
   (H)   Hook-up extensions. The grantee shall not be required to extend its
gas distribution system more than 200 feet for each customer to be served from
any extension thereof.
   (I)   Default.
      (1)   If the grantee shall be in default in the performances of any of
the terms and conditions of this chapter and shall continue in default for more
than 30 days after receiving notice from the City Council of such default, the
City Council may, by ordinance duly passed and adopted, terminate all rights
granted under this chapter to the grantee.
      (2)   The notice of default shall specify the provision or provisions in
the performance of which it is claimed the grantee is in default. The notice
shall be in writing and served in the manner provided by the laws of the state
for the service of original notices in civil actions.
      (3)   If the grantee is in default as to any part of this franchise, the
city may, after reasonable notice to the company and the failure of the company
to cure the default within a reasonable time, take any action as may be
reasonably necessary to abate the condition caused by the default, and the
company agrees to reimburse the city for all its reasonable costs.
   (J)   Term of franchise. The right and authority herein granted shall be
non-exclusive and shall be and continue for a period of 25 years from and after
the date of the legal enactment of this chapter and acceptance thereof by the
grantee.
PART IX. APPENDIX: RIGHT-OF-WAY REGULATIONS
§ 309.01 AUTHORITY; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and
federal statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects
pursuant to this chapter to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
   (B)   A permittee’s rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers
of the city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions included in M.S. § 237.162, as it may be amended from time
to time, Minn. Rules 7819.0100, subps. 1 through 23, and Minn. Rules 7560.0100,
subps. 1 through 12, are hereby adopted by reference and are incorporated into
this chapter as if set out in full.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.03 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   A permit application is required per this section with fees and
defined by the fee schedule per §
309.05.
   (B)   By applying for and accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minn. Rules 7819.1250.
   (C)   The application for a permit shall contain and will be considered
complete only upon compliance with the requirements of the following
provisions:
      (1)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project, the location of all known existing and proposed facilities
and the following information:
         (a)   Each permittee’s name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address, e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
         (b)   The name, address, e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of a local representative. The local representative or
designee shall always be available. Current information regarding how to
contact the local representative in an emergency shall be provided at the time
of registration;
         (c)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance, where appropriate,
unless waiver:
            1.   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
permittee by an insurance company licensed to do business in the state, or a
form of self-insurance acceptable to the city administrator; or
            2.   Verifying that the permittee is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the permittee, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees, and placement and use of facilities
and equipment in the right-of-way by the permittee, its officers, agents,
employees and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection against
liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground facilities
and collapse of property.
         (d)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all coverages;
         (e)   Requiring that the City Administrator or comparable official be
notified 30 days in advance of cancellation of the policy or material
modification of a coverage term;
         (f)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
         (g)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, worker’s compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the City Administrator in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public
and to carry out the purposes and policies of this chapter;
         (h)   If the person is a corporation, a copy of the certificate
required to be filed under M.S. § 300.06, as it may be amended from time to
time, as recorded and certified by the Secretary of State; and
         (i)   A copy of the person’s order granting a certificate of authority
from the state’s Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have the certificate
from the Public Utilities Commission or other state or federal agency.
      (2)   Payment of money due the city for:
         (a)   Permit fees, estimated restoration costs and other management
costs;
         (b)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
         (c)   Any undisputed loss, damage or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant’s prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city; and
         (d)   Franchise fees or other charges, where appropriate.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the City Administrator or Chief of Police shall issue a permit.
   (B)   Conditions. The City Administrator or Chief of Police may impose
reasonable conditions upon the issuance of the permit and the performance of
the applicant thereunder to protect the health, safety and welfare or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use. In addition, a
permittee shall comply with all requirements of local, state, and federal laws,
including, but not limited to, the Gopher One Call excavation notice system,
being M.S. §§ 216D.01 through 216D.09, as it may be amended from time to time,
and Minn. Rules Ch. 7560.
   (C)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including, but not limited
to, horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Ch. 216D, as it may be amended from time to time, and Minn. Rules Ch.
7560, and shall require potholing or open cutting over existing underground
utilities before excavating, as determined by the city.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.05 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. All permit fees shall be established consistent
with the provisions of Minn. Rules 7819.100. The city shall establish an
excavation permit fee in an amount sufficient to recover the following costs:
      (1)   City management costs; and
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management
costs.
   (C)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit or obstruction permit
shall be issued without payment of excavation or obstruction permit fees. The
city may allow applicant to pay the fees within 30 days of billing.
   (D)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the City
Administrator or Chief of Police has revoked for a breach as stated in §
309.16 are not refundable.
   (E)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way-user in the franchise.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.06 PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein, must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonable or unreasonable under §
309.11.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch his, her, or its own
work. The city may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way
or to restore the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 30 days of billing. If in following the
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee’s improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, all costs
associated with having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction performance bond in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
7819.3000.
      (3)   Degradation fee in lieu of restoration. In lieu of right-of-way
restoration, a right-of-way user may elect to pay a degradation fee. However,
the right-of-way user shall remain responsible for patching and the degradation
fee shall not include the cost to accomplish these responsibilities.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minn. Rules 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. The permittee,
upon notification from the Director, correct all restoration work to the extent
necessary, using the method required by the Director. The work shall be
completed within five calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the
Director, not including days during which work cannot be done because of
circumstances constituting force majeure or days when work is prohibited as
unseasonable or unreasonable under §
309.11
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the City Administrator, or fails
to satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the Director,
the Director, at his or her option, may do such work. In that event, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 30 days of billing, the cost of
restoring the right-of-way. If permittee fails to pay as required, the city may
exercise its rights under the construction performance bond.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.07 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS; NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that an area greater than that specified in the
permit must be obstructed or excavated must, before working in that greater
area, make application for a permit extension and pay any additional fees
required thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit extension.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
      (1)   If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it
must apply for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the
new permit or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date
of the previous permit.
      (2)   This supplementary application must be submitted before the permit
end date.
   (C)   Notification. If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way
begins later or ends sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall
notify the Director of the accurate information as soon as this information is
known.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.08 PERMIT DENIAL AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Denial. The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the
requirements and conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the
denial is necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use.
   (B)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit without a fee refund if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule,
regulation or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by the
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner, unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee’s control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
309.14.
   (C)   Written notice of breach.
      (1)   If the city determines that the permittee has committed a
substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute, ordinance, rule,
regulation or any condition of the permit the city shall make a written demand
upon the permittee to remedy the violation. The demand shall state that
continued violations might be cause for revocation of the permit.
      (2)   A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the city, at its
discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on the permit to mitigate
and remedy the breach.
   (D)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, the permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, which will cure the breach. The permittee’s failure to
so contact the city, or the permittee’s failure to submit an acceptable plan or
the permittee’s failure to reasonably implement the approved plan shall be
cause for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (E)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city’s reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorney’s fees
incurred in connection with the revocation.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.09 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS; INSPECTION.
   (A)   Installation. The excavation, backfilling, patching, restoration and
all other work performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with
Minn. Rules 7819.1100 and other applicable local requirements, insofar as they
are not inconsistent with the M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163, as they may be
amended from time to time.
   (B)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate in accordance
Minn. Rules 7819.1300.
   (C)   Site inspection. The permittee shall make the work-site available to
city personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (D)   Authority of City Administrator/Chief of Police.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the Director may order the immediate
cessation of any work, which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The City Administrator may issue an order to the permittee for any
work that does not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable
standards, conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct
the violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within ten days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the Director that
the violation has been corrected. If proof has not been presented within the
required time, the Director may revoke the permit pursuant to §
309.16.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.10 WORK DONE WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. Each person with facilities in the right-of-way
shall immediately notify the city of any event regarding its facilities that it
considers being an emergency.
      (1)   The owner of the facilities may proceed to take whatever actions
are necessary to respond to the emergency. Within two business days after the
occurrence of the emergency the owner shall apply for the necessary permits,
pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill the rest of the requirements
necessary to bring itself into compliance with this chapter for the actions it
took in response to the emergency.
      (2)   If the city becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the
city will attempt to contact the local representative of each facility owner
affected, or potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may
take whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost
of which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the
emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency, any person who,
without first having obtained the necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a
right-of-way must subsequently obtain a permit, and as a penalty pay double the
normal fee for the permit, pay double all the other fees required by this code,
deposit with the city the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-
way and comply with all of the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.11 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each permittee shall provide mapping information
required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules 7819.4000 and 7819.4100.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules 7560.0150,
subp. 2, shall require the permittee’s use of appropriate means of establishing
the horizontal locations of installed service laterals, and the service lateral
vertical locations in those cases where the city reasonably requires it. The
permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the city evidence of the
installed service lateral locations.
      (1)   Compliance with this division (B) and with applicable Gopher State
One Call Law and Minnesota Rules governing service laterals shall be a
condition of any city approval necessary for:
         (a)   Payments to contractors working on a public improvement project
including those under M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time; and
         (b)   City approval of performance under development agreements, or
other subdivision or site plan approval under M.S. Ch. 462, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (2)   The city shall reasonably determine the appropriate method of
providing information. Failure to provide prompt and accurate information on
the service laterals installed may result in the revocation of the permit
issued for the work or for future permits to the offending permittee or its
subcontractors.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.12 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Compliance. Placement, location and relocation of facilities must
comply with the Act, with other applicable law, and with Minn. Rules 7819.3100,
7819.5000 and 7819.5100, as they may be amended from time to time, to the
extent the rules do not limit authority otherwise available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. The city may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of facilities
that is or, pursuant to current technology, the city expects will someday be
located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction or other permits
issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of facilities
shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
   (C)   Limitation of space. To protect health, safety and welfare or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the Director shall
have the power to prohibit, or the Director shall strive to the extent possible
to accommodate, all existing and potential users of the right-of-way, but shall
be guided primarily by considerations of the public interest, the public’s
needs for the particular utility service, the condition of the right-of-way,
the time of year with respect to essential utilities, the protection of
existing facilities in the right-of-way and future city plans for public
improvements and development projects which have been determined to be in the
public interest.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.13 DAMAGE TO FACILITIES.
   (A)   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support or move facilities to protect it, the Director shall notify
the local representative as early as is reasonably possible and placed as
required. The costs associated therewith will be billed to that facility owner
and must be paid within 30 days from the date of billing.
   (B)   Each facility owner shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any
facilities in the right-of-way which it or its facilities damages.
   (C)   Each facility owner shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any
damage to the facilities of another caused during the city’s response to an
emergency occasioned by that owner’s facilities.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.14 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATIONS.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains facilities, the facility
owner’s rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by Minn. Rules
7819.3200.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.15 ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way shall remove
them from that right-of-way if required in conjunction with other right-of-way
repair, excavation or construction, unless the Director waives this
requirement.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
§ 309.16 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that has been denied registration, has been denied a
permit, has had permit revoked, believes that the fees imposed are invalid or
disputes a determination of the city may have the denial, revocation, fee
imposition or decision reviewed upon written request by the City Council. The
City Council shall act on a timely-written request at its next regularly-
scheduled meeting. A decision by the City Council affirming the denial,
revocation or fee imposition will be writing and supported by written findings
establishing the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 234, passed - -)
CHAPTER IV: WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS
Section
Part I. General Provisions on Water and Sewer Systems
   
401.01   Water and Sewer Department
   
401.02   Rules and regulations
   
401.03   Use of water or sewer system restricted
   
401.04   Application for services
   
401.05   Charges for service connections
   
401.06   Protection of public and city
Part II. Definitions, Accounts, Billing, Utility Rate Schedule, Delinquent
Accounts and Other Remedies
   
402.01   Definitions
   
402.02   Accounts
   
402.03   Billing
   
402.04   Utility rate schedule
   
402.05   Delinquent accounts
   
402.06   Other remedies
Part III. Water System
   
403.01   General water regulations
   
403.02   Meters
   
403.03   Water rates
Part IV. Sanitary Sewer System
   
404.01   Requirements for building sewer inspection
   
404.02   Sewer system general regulations
   
404.03   Sewer connection required
   
404.04   Sewer rates
Part V. Individual Sewage Treatment Systems
   
405.01   Sewage disposal
PART I. GENERAL PROVISIONS ON WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS
§ 401.01 WATER AND SEWER DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby established a Water and Sanitary Sewer Department, which
shall be operated under the direction of the Public Work Director, or his or
her designated appointee. The Department shall be responsible for the
management, maintenance, care and operation of the water works and sanitary
sewer/wastewater treatment systems of the city.
§ 401.02 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The rules, regulations and rates hereinafter named shall be considered
a part of the contract with every person, company or corporation who is
supplied with water through the water system of the city; and every such
person, company or corporation by taking water shall be considered as
expressing his, her or their assent to be bound thereby.
   (B)   Whenever any said rules and regulations or such others as the Council
may hereafter adopt, are violated, the water shall be shut off from the
building or property, even though two or more persons receive water through the
same pipe, and shall not be turned on again, except by order of the proper city
official, and the expenses of shutting off, turning on, digging and other
expenses that may be incurred on account of shutting off and turning on of
water are paid. For matters not specifically covered in this chapter, the City
Council shall have the duty and authority to prepare and promulgate additional
rules to subject to the approval of the City Council by majority vote.
§ 401.03 USE OF WATER OR SEWER SYSTEM RESTRICTED.
   No person shall make or use any water or sewer installation connected to the
city water or sewer system, except pursuant to application and permit as
provided in this chapter. No person shall make or use any such installation
contrary to the regulatory provisions of this chapter.
§ 401.04 APPLICATION FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   Procedure.
      (1)   Application for water or sewer service installation and connection
shall be made to the City Official on forms prescribed by the Council and
furnished by the city. Through this application, the applicant agrees to
conform to this chapter and to rules and regulations that may be established by
the city as conditions for the use of water.
      (2)   The application shall be filed by the owner of the premises to be
served or by his or her agent, and shall specify the name of the street and the
house number of the premises to be served, and lot and block number, and shall
state that the applicant will agree to observe all ordinances, rules,
regulations and laws governing the use of city water. If a water main is
available, said application will be approved and a service connection
installed; the water shall be turned on to serve the described premises,
provided a suitable water meter has been installed.
   (B)   Fees on deposit. Application for a service installation shall be made
by the owner of the property to be served or by his or her agent. The applicant
shall, at the time of making application, pay to the city the amount of the
fees or deposit required for the installation of the service connection as
provided in this chapter. When a water service connection has been installed,
application for water service may be made either by the owner or his or her
agent or by the tenant or occupant of the premises.
§ 401.05 CHARGES FOR SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit and fee. No connection shall be made to the city water or
sanitary sewer system without a permit received from the city. The fee for each
permit shall be set annually by City Council resolution. These fees shall be in
addition to any fees required under division (B) below. Fees are subject to
change notice pursuant to City Council regulations.
   (B)   Connection fees.
      (1)   When a connection requires installation of a service line from the
main to the property line, the applicant for a permit shall pay to the city a
minimum of the cost of making the necessary connections, taps and installation
of pipe and appurtenances to provide service to the property and the necessary
street repairs, as determined by the Street Superintendent, or his or her
designated official.
      (2)   All connections to the city water systems shall be made by the city
and paid for by applicant as provided herein. All service lines from the main
to the curb cock box shall be installed and maintained by the city. All service
lines from the curb cock box to the premises shall be installed and maintained
by the user at the expense of the user.
      (3)   Water user shall pay all expenses for installing his or her service
line from the curb cock box into premises, including any and all street repair
and replacement where appropriate.
      (4)   All of the above fees must be paid prior to connection to the city
water distribution system.
   (C)   Connections prior to paving or repaving. The contractor in submitting
his or her bid for paving a street in the city shall include in his or her bid
the cost of raising shut-offs and man holes. It shall be the responsibility of
the city to determine which service connections are in need of replacement and
to replace such service connections prior to the paving operations if it seems
appropriate. Costs and charges will be reviewed on an individual case basis. If
there is vacant property abutting any street to be paved or repaved, service
connections shall be constructed to such vacant property and a curb stop shall
be installed. The charge for such new service connection shall be as specified
above, less the current cost of a water meter and shall be payable by the
property owner where appropriate and if not paid shall be added to the paving
assessment, or otherwise assessed to the property as provided by law and
certified to the County Auditor to be collected with other taxes.
§ 401.06 PROTECTION OF PUBLIC AND CITY.
   (A)   Permit and bond. A permit for construction of a connection of the
extension between a building drain and the sewer main or stub, herein called
the “building sewer”, or between the building water service pipes and a water
main or stub shall be issued only upon application by a qualified plumber. The
applicant shall comply with the provisions of this chapter and to secure
performance by him or her of all work undertaken within the city a performed
bond or other security may be required. This bond shall either be furnished to
the City Clerk or Secretary of State under M.S. § 326B.46, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   Liability insurance.
      (1)   Before undertaking the construction work authorized by the permit,
the plumber shall secure and maintain a policy of insurance against damages to
property or injury or death to persons.
      (2)   The policy shall indemnify and save harmless the city and its
personnel against any claim, damages or cause of action arising out of work and
from any expenses of defending the same.
      (3)   The property damage insurance coverage shall be determined by the
City Council on an individual basis.
      (4)   Proof of such insurance shall be filled with the city prior to
construction work and such policy shall provide the city to be notified
immediately of any termination or modification of such insurance.
      (5)   If the insurance coverage is an adequate in amount, the qualified
plumber shall indemnify and save harmless the city and its personnel in like
manner.
   (C)   Appointment of costs. The owner shall bear the costs and expenses
incident to the installation and connection of the building sewer or extension
of water service to private property. He or she shall indemnify the city for
any loss or damage directly or indirectly caused by its installation and
connection. To the extent he or she deems necessary, the appropriate designated
city official shall establish rules and regulations for the proper
implementation of these requirements which, when approved by the Council by
resolution, shall govern the installation, and connection of building sewers
and extension of water service to private property.
PART II. DEFINITIONS, ACCOUNTS, BILLING, UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE, DELINQUENT
ACCOUNTS AND OTHER REMEDIES
§ 402.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this part, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCOUNT. A record of utility services used by each property and the periodic
costs for those utility services.
   CITY. The City of Henderson, County of Sibley, State of Minnesota.
   CITY UTILITY SYSTEM. Facilities used for providing public utility service
owned or operated by city or agency thereof, including sewer, storm sewer
(environmental services) and water service.
   UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE. A schedule of all utility rates and charges set by
resolution of the city.
   WATERWORKS SYSTEM. Water and sewer transmission pipes, lines, fixtures,
meters and all necessary equipment and appurtenances owned or operated by the
city utility system for the purpose of providing water and sewer services for
public or private use.
(Ord. 224, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 402.02 ACCOUNTS.
   All accounts shall be carried in the name of the owner who personally, or by
his or her authorized agent, applied for such service. The owner shall be
liable for water and sewer services supplied to the property, whether he or she
is occupying the property or not, and any unpaid charges shall be a lien upon
the property.
(Ord. 224, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 402.03 BILLING.
   Water, sewer and environmental utility service, and charges shall be billed
on one bill as applicable to each account. All charges for water, sewer and
environmental service and charges shall be due upon receipt and considered
delinquent after the twentieth day of the following month. All bills shall
contain the title, address and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing; the title, address and phone number shall be clearly visible and
easily readable. Bills shall be mailed to the customers on or before the fourth
day of each month off each year and specify the water consumed and charges in
accordance with the current fee schedule set by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 224, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 402.04 UTILITY RATE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The utility rate schedule shall be adopted annually by resolution of
the City Council.
   (B)   The City Council resolution setting out the utility rate schedule
shall also establish the number of certification cycles per year. At least one
certification cycle will be timed each year to coincide with the county’s
requirements for certification to the following year’s taxes. Additional
certification cycles may be set in the annual rate schedule resolution. Each
year, the Council shall establish one or more certification cut-off dates. All
city utility accounts, unless exempt for other legal reason, which have been
billed a delinquent bill and remain unpaid as of the certification cut-off date
shall have the balance on the account included in a preliminary certification
list.
(Ord. 224, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 402.05 DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   Penalties. A late payment penalty of 1% shall be assessed on all
accounts with a past due balance.
   (B)   Shut-off for non-payment. Water shall not be shut-off until notice and
an opportunity for a hearing before the City Council or an employee designated
by the City Council have been provided to the occupant and owner of the
premises involved.
      (1)   If any bill is not paid by the due date listed on the bill, a
second bill will be mailed by first class mail and shall state that if payment
is not made within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, water service to
the premises will be shut off for non-payment.
      (2)   The second bill and shut-off notice shall contain the title,
address and telephone number of the official in charge of billing; the title,
address and phone number shall be clearly visible and easily readable.
      (3)   The notice shall also state that the any occupant or owner has the
right to a hearing before the water service is shut off. The owner or occupant
may be represented in person and by counsel or any other person of his or her
choosing. The owner or occupant may present orally or in writing his or her
complaint to the city official in charge of utility billing. This official
shall be authorized to order continuation of the customer’s service and shall
have the authority to adjust the customer’s bill or enter into a mutually
agreeable payment plan.
      (4)   If an occupant or owner requests a hearing, the water shall not be
shut off until the hearing process is complete.
      (5)   If a customer fails to pay and fails to request a hearing under
this part, service will be shut off at the time specified in the notice, but
not until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (6)   If a customer has his, her or their service discontinued, it shall
not reinstated until all the rents, charges and penalties have been paid,
together with the sum of $100 to cover the expense of turning the water off and
on. Depositing in the post office of the city a card or letter properly stamped
and addressed to such consumer or property owner at his or her last known
address, stating the amount of water consumed and the amount of rent and
charges due therefor and the date on which the same shall become due and
payable shall be sufficient notice of the charges due, and if said charges are
not paid as herein required, the penalties for delinquency may be enforced
without further notice.
   (C)   Certification for collection with taxes.
      (1)   Unpaid charges on sewer and water accounts shall not be certified
to the County Auditor until notice and an opportunity for a hearing have been
provided to the owner of the premises involved. The notice shall be sent by
first class mail and shall state that if payment is not made before the date
for certification, the entire amount unpaid plus penalties will be certified to
the County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected. The notice
shall also state that the occupant may, before such certification date, attend
or schedule a hearing on the matter to object to certification of unpaid
utility charges.
      (2)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this part, if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this part,
the Council, or any city official designated by it, may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to procure payment.
   (D)   Options. The owner of the property shall have the option of paying the
balance due on the account until the date of the certification hearing. After
the date the notice of certification hearing is mailed to the County Auditor,
payments will still be accepted but will include unpaid penalties and interest.
   (E)   Hearing. A hearing shall be held on the matter by the City Council.
Property owners with unpaid utility charges shall have the opportunity to
object to the certification of unpaid charges to be collected as taxes are
collected. If, after the hearing, the City Council finds the that the amounts
claimed as delinquent are actually due and unpaid and that there is no legal
reason why the unpaid charges should not be certified for collection with taxes
in accordance with this part, the city may certify the unpaid charges to the
County Auditor for collection as other taxes are collected.
   (F)   Options after hearing. For each certification sustained, the property
owner shall have the following options after the hearing:
      (1)   To pay the delinquent amount listed on the preliminary roll, but
without additional interest after the hearing within ten days of the hearing
date;
      (2)   To pay the certified delinquent amount after the hearing date, but
before the county certification deadline with interest at the rate set in the
adopted rate schedule accrued beginning on eleventh day following the hearing
date through the date of payment; and
      (3)   To pay the certified charges as billed to him, her or them by the
county on his, her or their property tax statement with a collection term of
one year.
   (G)   Certified roll. No more than 15 days after the hearing, the certified
roll, minus any payments, shall be delivered to the county.
(Ord. 224, passed 9-21-2011)
§ 402.06 OTHER REMEDIES.
   In addition to any procedures or penalties provided for in this part if any
person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this part,
the Council or any city official designated by it may institute appropriate
proceedings at law or at equity to procure payment and or enforce the
provisions of this part.
(Ord. 224, passed 9-21-2011)
PART III. WATER SYSTEM
§ 403.01 GENERAL WATER REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Discontinuance of service. The city may discontinue service to any
water consumer without notice for necessary repairs or, upon notice as provided
in §
402.05 of this chapter, for non-payment of charges or for violation of rules
and regulations affecting utility service.
   (B)   Supply from one service. No more than one house or building shall be
supplied from a service connection. Whenever two or more parties are supplied
from one pipe connecting with a service main, each building or part of building
separately supplied shall have a separate stop curb box/stand pipe and a
separate meter.
   (C)   Turning on water, tapping mains. No person, except an authorized city
employee or other personnel authorized by the City Council, shall turn on any
water supply at the stop box or tap any distributing main or pipe of the water
supply system or insert a stop cock.
   (D)   Repair of leaks. The consumer or owner shall be responsible for
maintaining the service pipe from the curb box into the building served. If he
or she fails to repair any leak in such service pipe within 24 hours after
notice by the city, the city may turn the water off. The water shall not then
be turned on again until the sum of $100 has been paid to the city. When the
waste of water is great or damage is likely to result from the leak, the city
shall turn the water off immediately upon the giving of notice if repair is not
commenced immediately. Water shall not be turned on until repairs have been
made and proof provided to the City Clerk.
   (E)   Use of fire hydrants. No person other than an authorized city employee
shall operate a fire hydrant or interfere in any way with the city water system
without first obtaining authority to do so from the Water Superintendent or
City Administrator.
      (1)   All water hydrants erected in and by said city are hereby declared
to be public hydrants, and no person or persons shall open any of said
hydrants, or attempt to draw water from the same, or in any manner interfere or
tamper with said hydrants; provided that, the provision of this section shall
not apply to members of the Fire Department when, in the discharge of their
duties as firefighters, or to persons who are especially authorized by the
Water Superintendent or City Administrator.
      (2)   No person or persons shall open or close any water gates, nor open
or remove the cover of any manhole or gate box, or in any way interfere or
tamper with them, except members of the Fire Department or employees of the
city when, in the discharge of their duties as such, or such employees and
other persons especially authorized by the City Administrator. It shall be
unlawful for any person or persons to throw, put or place into a reservoir,
well, tank or other source for which water is taken to supply the city, any
animal, dead carcass, manure, putrid matter of any kind, or any other substance
which might pollute or tend to pollute or render impure the waters thereof, or
to throw or cause to be thrown or placed in such water supply, any matter of
any kind or nature; or to deposit or place any such substance or matter in or
near said water source where the same may wash or flow or fall into, nor shall
any person or persons bathe or swim in, or in any manner meddle with, or
pollute said waters of said water supply.
   (F)   Private water supply. No water pipe of the city water supply system
shall be connected with any pump, well or tank that is connected with any other
source of water supply. When any such connection is found, the Water Department
shall notify the owner to sever connection and if this is not done immediately,
the city shall turn off the water supply forthwith. Before any new connection
to the city system is permitted, the Department shall ascertain that no cross-
connection will exist when the connection is made.
   (G)   Restricted hours. Whenever the Council determines that a shortage of
water supply threatens the city, it may, by resolution, limit the times and
hours during which city water may be used for sprinkling, irrigation, car
washing, air conditioning or other specific uses. After publication of the
resolution or two days after mailing of the resolution to each customer, no
person shall use or permit water to be used in violation of the resolution and
any customer who does so shall be charged $50 for each day of violation. If the
emergency requires immediate compliance with terms of the resolution, the
Council may provide for the delivery of a copy of the resolution to the
premises of each customer, and any customer who has received such notice and
thereafter uses or permits water to be used in violation of the resolution
shall be subject to the charge provided above. Continued violation shall be
cause for discontinuance of water service and or legal prosecution.
   (H)   Injury to Water Department property. No person shall willfully or
carelessly break, injure, deface, interfere with or disturb any building,
reservoir, machinery, apparatus, fixate or attachment of the water works or
pumping system of said city, nor hydrants or water tank or curb stop box,
meter, water supply or service, or service stand pipe, or any part thereof, nor
shall any person willfully or carelessly deposit anything in any stand pipe, or
any part thereof, nor shall any person willfully or carelessly deposit anything
in any stand pipe, nor commit any act attempting to obstruct or impair the use
or intended use of any of the above mentioned property. No person shall injure
or tamper with any pumps, pump hose or city wells. No person shall use water
for sprinkling during the time of a fire which requires city water for
extinguishing the same. It shall be a criminal offense to violate this section.
   (I)   Location of service curb stop boxes. Service curb stop(s)/stand pipe
(s) shall be placed wherever practical between the curb and sidewalk. In
addition to the service curb stop, there must be at least one additional
corporation cock for waste in each service pipe entering the premises and
before the pipe enters the water meter. One such stop cock for water shall be
placed inside the premises to be used by the owner for shutting off the water
when necessary to keep the same from freezing in the pipes or fixtures, or for
any other purpose; the other stop cock shall be placed in the service
connection near the curb the line.
   (J)   Easements to cross private ground. No water service pipe shall be laid
on or across any private ground, unless the owner of the private ground to be
crossed by said service pipe shall grant a perpetual easement in writing for
such crossing. Said easement to describe the premises to be crossed and the
approximate line and direction of crossing, showing the approximate location of
said service pipe. Such easement must be signed by the owner of the premises as
required by law and must be approved by the city. It must also be recorded in
the office of the Register of Deeds and a certified copy thereof must be filed
in the office of the City Clerk.
   (K)   Unlawful to carry a key. It shall be unlawful for any person,
excepting a person expressly authorized by city officials, to have in his or
her possession or under his or her control a key for turning the corporation
curb stop/cock. Said authorized person having such a key shall not permit
anyone to use the same, except in the regular line of duty or employment. Any
unauthorized use of said key shall be considered a violation of said ordinance
and subject to the penalties therein prescribed.
   (L)   Owner maintains service pipe. Property owners having service pipes
connected with the city water mains shall, at their own expense, keep the
service pipes from the curb cock to the meter in a good state of repair and
properly protected from the frost. In case of failure of any part, the consumer
or property owner is to repair any leak occurring in his or her service pipe
between the curb cock meter within a reasonable time not exceeding 24 hours
after verbal or written notice has been served upon his or her premises. The
water will be shut off from the same and will not be turned on until the sum of
$50 has been paid and the leak repaired.
   (M)   Repairs on public property.
      (1)   No one shall make any repairs on service pipes which requires the
digging of trenches on public property, unless permit is first obtained from
the city to do so. In case of emergency or repairs required during the night
time or when the city offices are closed, the necessary digging may be done by
an authorized plumber or under the direction of one, but a permit shall be
obtained immediately after the opening of the office issuing such permit.
      (2)   If excavation is made on public property when the ground is frozen,
or when the ground freezes before refilling has been completed, the old
material may be used for refilling, but the plumber in charge of repairs and
excavation will be held responsible for the prompt refilling of any settled
portion as soon as such settling appears. When an application for service
connection is approved, it is understood that such approval carries with it
permission to excavate on public property, by or under the immediate direction
of an authorized plumber to the extent necessary to make such service
connections.
§ 403.02 METERS.
   (A)   Meters required.
      (1)   Except for extinguishing fires, no person other than an authorized
city employee shall use water from the city water supply system or permit water
to be drawn therefrom unless the water passes through a meter supplied or
approved by the city. No person not authorized by the Water Department shall
connect, disconnect, take apart or in any manner change or interfere with any
such meter or its use.
      (2)   Every water meter shall be owned, installed and maintained by the
city. Also, every consumer shall supply a suitable place where the meter can be
installed.
   (B)   Maintenance. The city shall maintain and repair at its expense any
meter that has become unserviceable through ordinary wear and tear and shall
replace it, if necessary. Where repair or replacement is made necessary by act
or neglect of the owner or occupant of the premises it serves, any city expense
caused thereby shall be a charged against and collected from the water
consumer, and water service may be discontinued until the cause is corrected
and the amount charged is paid.
   (C)   Complaints - meter testing.
      (1)   When a customer complains that the bill for any past service period
is excessive, the city shall have the meter reread on request. If the consumer
remains dissatisfied, he or she may, on written request and the deposit of $50,
have the meter tested.
      (2)   If the test shows an error in the city’s favor exceeding 5% of the
water consumed, the deposit shall be refunded, an accurate meter shall be
installed and the bill shall be adjusted accordingly. Such adjustments shall
not extend back more than one service period from the date of the written
request.
   (D)   Meter reading and inspections. The Water Superintendent, or his or her
designated official, shall be permitted at all reasonable times to read meters
or inspect service connections or meters, and shall have the right to enter
private property at all reasonable times for that purpose. Any refusal to
permit inspection or interference with any such inspector in the performance of
his or her duty will be deemed a violation of this part.
   (E)   Multiple dwelling and meter care.
      (1)   All water shall be sold at meter rates, except as otherwise
provided herein. Each family using city water shall have a meter installed for
the use; provided, however, that, when two or more families occupy the same
house and use one common entrance to the house, one meter may be used for two
or more such families. Tenements, flats and multiple dwelling may be supplied
through one meter; provided that, no water pipes shall be placed through any
fire wall or other wall which has no door regularly used for passing from one
side to the other. Each store, place of business, shop and factory shall have a
meter for each user, and in no case shall a water pipe be placed through a
party wall, fire wall or any other solid wall having no door regularly used for
passing from one side to the other.
      (2)   No person or persons, including an authorized plumber, shall break
a seal on a meter or open, take apart or change the reading of any water meter
in use or intended use for measuring water in the city.
      (3)   Parties whose water meters are broken or out of order or in need of
repair shall immediately report the same to the office of the City Clerk. When
a water meter is disconnected, the City Clerk’s office shall make a record of
the reading and the date of disconnection of the same.
      (4)   Meters shall be set so as to measure all water passed through the
service pipe or used by the consumer for any purpose, and shall be placed in
such a way as to be easily accessible in order to facilitate the reading and
inspection of the same. It shall be a violation of this part to interfere with
the reading or inspection of any meter.
      (5)   The owner shall pay for all damage caused to meters by his or her
negligence or by the negligence of his or her agents and occupants of the
premises.
   (F)   Discontinuing service/reconnection. Consumers wishing to discontinue
the use of water shall notify the City Clerk to that effect. The water shall
then be turned off at the curb shut-off box, and the charges for water shall
cease; provided, all water rents, penalties or other charges under this part
are paid. Water service shall be resumed upon notification to the City Clerk
and payment of a reconnection fee based on costs revised by the city.
   (G)   No claims against the city. No claim shall be made against the city
for the breaking or freezing of any service cock nor for failure to supply
water, nor from damage arising from shutting off the water for any purpose
deemed necessary, such as repairing mains, making connections or extensions or
for any other reason. The city hereby reserves the right to shut off the water
supply at any time, regardless of permits granted or arrangements made. It
shall not be necessary for the city to give notice before shutting off the
water supply, but whenever practical, such notice will be given before shutting
off the water.
   (H)   Water during construction. A tap may be granted and meter installed
upon deposit to supply a building during construction or before the time it is
completed and ready for occupancy by special permission from the Water
Superintendent. All water supplied through said tap shall be charged for at the
regular meter rates or the minimum monthly charges. When the building has been
completed and the water no longer needed, the water no longer needed, the water
shall be turned off and the meter removed. The meter used may be returned to
the city, if examined and found in good repair, the consumer shall be entitled
to a refund for the meter equal to the sum deposited with the City Clerk’s
office less $5 for each month for the time said meter was used.
§ 403.03 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Rate schedule.
      (1)   The following monthly rates shall be charged and collected by the
city for water supplied to consumers by the city water works.
      (2)   The meter rates and users charges (capital outlay) for a one-month
period or fraction thereof are: see current rate schedule.
         (a)   Users have the option of having new meters installed for a fee
of $500.
         (b)   All extra plumbing cost shall be borne by user.
         (c)   Water sold from a city crane or hydrant shall be charged as
follows:
            1.   Forty-five cents per 100 gallons of water taken from city well
($4.50/1,000); and
            2.   Fifty dollars per load for water hauled by tanker.
   (B)   Review of rates. The City Council reserves the right to review and
change all water rates and charges set forth in this part on a yearly basis to
make adjustments in said rates, user charges (capital outlay) and charges to
cover increased costs of operation resulting from inflation and capital costs.
Such changes may be made by two-thirds’ vote of the Council and adopted at any
regular meeting of said Council. These rates as adopted per the method
described are included in this part by reference.
   (C)   Penalties.
      (1)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of this part
shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, in addition to other penalties
provided herein, shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $700 and/or
imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days.
      (2)   Each act of violation shall constitute a misdemeanor and each act
of violation and each day a violation occurs or continues constitutes a
separate offense.
PART IV. SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM
§ 404.01 REQUIREMENTS FOR BUILDING SEWER INSPECTION.
   (A)   Building sewer construction shall meet the requirements of the state’s
Plumbing Code.
   (B)   The applicant for a building sewer permit shall notify the Wastewater
Superintendent or other authorized official when the building sewer and
connection are ready for inspection.
   (C)   The connection shall be made under the supervision of the Wastewater
Superintendent or representative.
   (D)   No backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected and
approved.
§ 404.02 SEWER SYSTEM GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Discharge of surface water and the like. No person shall discharge or
cause to be discharged any storm water, surface water, ground water, cooling
water or unpolluted industrial process waters into any sanitary sewer. No
rainspout or other form of surface drainage and no foundation drainage shall be
connected with any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   Non-acceptable wastes. No person shall discharge or permit to be
discharged into any public sewer any of the following wastes:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having temperature in excess of 150°F;
      (2)   Any water or waste having a five-day biological oxygen demand
exceeding 1,000 parts per million by weight as averaged during any 12-month
period;
      (3)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (4)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (5)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar plastics, wood, manure, grit, brick, cement, onyx, carbide or
other matter that may interfere with the proper operation of the sewers or
sewage treatment plant;
      (6)   Any water or waste having a pH lower than five and one-half or
higher than nine or having any other property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment or personnel of the sewage works;
      (7)   Any water or waste containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantities to constitute a hazard to humans or animals, injure or
interfere with sewage treatment or create any hazard to humans or animals,
receiving waters of the sewage treatment plant; and
      (8)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (C)   Interceptors. Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided by
the user and at the user’s expense when they are necessary for the proper
handling of any liquid waste containing grease in excessive amounts or any
flammable waste, sand or other harmful ingredients; but, such interceptors
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
Interceptors shall be located so as to be easily accessible for cleaning and
inspection.
   (D)   Control manhole required. The owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial waste shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation and sampling of the
waste. The manhole shall be constructed by the owner in accordance with plans
approved by the City Engineer. The owner shall maintain the manhole so as to be
safe and accessible at all times.
   (E)   Separate sewers. A separate and independent sewer shall be provided
for every building connected to the sewer system; except that, the Council may
waive this requirement where it finds that a separate sewer for a building is
impractical.
   (F)   Repair of leaks. The consumer or owner shall be responsible for
maintaining the sewer service pipe from the main into the building served. If
he or she fails to repair any leak in such sewer service pipe within 24 hours
after notice by the city, the city may make the necessary repairs and shall
assess the consumer or owner for all costs.
§ 404.03 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   General requirement. When property abuts upon any public street or
alley along which water and sewer mains have been constructed, the owner of any
dwelling or commercial establishment on the property shall install suitable
toilet facilities therein and connect them with the sanitary sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this part within 90 days after the date of
mailing or delivering official notice to do so. The notice shall be given to
the owner or occupant in writing by the City Clerk on order of the Council.
   (B)   Connection by city. Whenever any owner or occupant fails to comply
with such written notice, the Council shall by resolution direct that a toilet
be installed and connection made with the water and sewer system and that the
cost of the installation then assessed against the property benefitted.
   (C)   Assessment. After the installation and connection have been completed
following Council resolution, the Clerk shall serve a written notice of the
assessment to the Treasurer within ten days after the service of the notice. If
the assessment is not paid within ten days, the Clerk shall certify the amount
to the County Auditor for collection in the same manner as other special
assessments. The Council may, by resolution, spread the assessment over a five-
year period.
§ 404.04 SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Charges. For the purpose of providing funds to meet the cost of
operation of the sewer and sewage treatment plant of the city, there is hereby
levied and assessed against each lot, parcel of land, building or other
premises having any connection with the public sewer system of the city, a
sewage service payable as hereinafter provided.
      (1)   In the event that any commercial, industrial, government, church or
school user does not have metering equipment or where it is not practical to
measure the amount of water used on the premises, the City Clerk shall estimate
the volume of water discharged into the sewage system, and such estimates shall
be used in lieu of the metered volume of water determine the sewer rental
charges thereon and therefor.
      (2)   All new dwellings and existing dwelling hereafter connected to the
sanitary sewer system shall be assessed a connection charge as determined by
City Council resolution. For any new or existing dwelling or premises located
on land hereafter annexed to by the city or situated in such a manner so as to
not have ready access to the present sanitary sewer system, the property owners
and the city shall enter into a development agreement that provides for the
costs of extending the sewer system.
      (3)   The City Council reserves the right to review and change all sewer
rates and charges set forth in this part on a yearly basis to make adjustments
in said rates and collection procedures and charges to cover increased costs of
operation resulting from inflation and increased costs. Such changes may be
made by a two-thirds’ vote of the City Council adopted at any regular meeting
of said Council.
   (B)   General rates for sewer service.
      (1)   Each residential and commercial user of sanitary sewer service to
property also served by the city water system shall pay for each service at the
rate below are included in this part by reference.
      (2)   The sewer bill shall be based on the water consumption during the
month and any specific costs attributed to a specific project. (See current
rate schedule.) If a structure is occupied during part of a month, charges
shall be prorated at the discretion of city staff.
   (C)   Special cases.
      (1)   In the case of an industrial user contributing wastes to the sewage
disposal system in disproportionate amounts or concentrations, the sewer and
water departments shall make an individual study of the particular use and fix
an individual charge that is commensurate with the burden placed by the wastes
upon the sewage treatment plant.
      (2)   If a building served by sewer is not served by city water and the
Council determines that the flat rate sewer service charge inaccurately
measures use of the sewer system, it may order the installation of a water
meter to measure accurately the amount of water used on the premises.
      (3)   In the case of an industry using substantial amounts of water that
is not discharged into the sewer system, the Council may order installation of
a meter accurately measuring the amount of water that is used or consumed, and
fix the sewer service charge on the basis of such amount.
      (4)   Insofar as practicable, installation and maintenance of such meters
shall conform to the regulations contained in this code.
   (D)   Required information. The owner, occupant or person in charge of any
premises shall supply the city with such information it may reasonably require
relating to use of water, use of sewer or sewer rates. Willful failure to
provide such information or willful failure to comply with any requirement or
order to issued pursuant to this section constitutes a violation of this
section.
   (E)   Disposition of revenues. All revenues derived from charges imposed
under this section shall be credited to the Sanitary Sewer Utility Fund.
PART V. INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS
§ 405.01 SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   Public or municipal collection and treatment facilities must be used where
available and feasible.
   (A)   Public sanitary sewers shall be installed as required by standards and
specifications as established by the city and the state’s Board of Health.
   (B)   Where municipal public sanitary sewer is not available, the City
Council may, by special permit, authorize installation and use of an individual
sewage treatment system. Said system must be designed and operated in
accordance with the regulations of the Minn. Regs. Ch. 4720.
CHAPTER V: MUNICIPAL REGULATION AND LICENSING
Section
Part I. General Licensing and Permit Provisions
   
501.01   Licenses and permits
   
501.02   Fees
   
501.03   Duration of license
   
501.04   Transfer
   
501.05   Inspection
   
501.06   Duties of licensee
   
501.07   Suspension or revocation
Part II. Refuse/Recycling Collection and Disposal
   
502.01   Definitions
   
502.02   General regulations
   
502.03   Disposal required
   
502.04   Containers
   
502.05   Contract for refuse/recycling collection
   
502.06   Violation
Part III. Dogs
   
503.01   Definitions
   
503.02   Running at large prohibition
   
503.03   Licenses
   
503.04   Dog nuisances
   
503.05   Quarantine of certain dogs
   
503.06   Muzzling proclamation
   
503.07   Impounding
   
503.08   Proceedings for destruction of certain dogs
   
503.09   Owner’s obligation for proper care
   
503.10   Appointment of officers
   
503.11   Non-residents
   
503.12   Dangerous dogs
   
503.13   Penalty
Part IV. Other Animals
   
504.01   General prohibition
   
504.02   Areas where keeping prohibited
   
504.03   Animals at large
   
504.04   Diseased animals
   
504.05   Manner of keeping
   
504.06   Care of premises
   
504.07   Impounding
Part V. Bingo Law
   
505.01   Bingo laws
   
505.02   License required
Part VI. Gambling Devices, Raffles and Lottery
   
506.01   Statute adopted
   
506.02   License required
   
506.03   Persons eligible for a license
   
506.04   Application
   
506.05   Fidelity bond
   
506.06   Revocation
Part VII. Public Dances
   
507.01   Public dances
   
507.02   Permit required
   
507.03   Application
   
507.04   Officer of the law required
   
507.05   Violation; penalty
Part VIII. Regulation and Licensing of Mechanical and Electrical Amusement
Machines and Arcades
   
508.01   Statute adopted
   
508.02   Definition
   
508.03   License required
   
508.04   Application
   
508.05   License fee
   
508.06   Insurance required
   
508.07   Restrictions of operation
   
508.08   Revocation
   
508.09   Severability
   
508.10   Penalties
PART I. GENERAL LICENSING AND PERMIT PROVISIONS
§ 501.01 LICENSES AND PERMITS.
   (A)   General rule. Except as otherwise provided in this code, all licenses
and permits granted by the city shall be governed by the provisions of this
part.
   (B)   Acts prohibited. No person shall conduct any activity or use any
property for which a license or permit is required by law or this code without
a currently valid license or permit for such activity or use.
   (C)   Application.
      (1)   Every application for a license shall be made to the Clerk on a
form(s) provided. It shall be accompanied by payment to the Clerk or the
prescribed fee.
      (2)   If, after investigation, the Clerk is satisfied that all
requirements of law and this code have been met, he or she shall be present the
application to the Council for action or, if the license or permit does not
require Council approval, he or she shall issue the license or permit.
   (D)   Bond. Where a bond is required for any license or permit, the bond
shall be a corporate bond executed on a form approved by the City Attorney and
shall be filed with the Clerk before the license or permit is issued. Except
where otherwise provided, a bond shall be determined by the Council on a case
by case basis, and shall be conditioned that the license or permittee shall
comply with the applicable ordinance and laws pertaining to the licensed or
permitted activity and that the licensee or permittee will indemnify the city
and save it harmless from all loss or damage by reason or accident caused by
the negligence of the licensee or permittee, his or her agents or employees.
   (E)   Insurance.
      (1)   (a)   When a licensee or permittee is required to have in force a
policy of insurance, the policy shall be approved as to as substance and form
by the City Attorney.
         (b)   The policy shall provide that it is non-cancelable without 15
days’ notice to the city, and the coverage shall be for the term of the license
or permit.
         (c)   Satisfactory evidence of coverage by insurance shall be filed
with the Clerk before the license or permit is issued.
         (d)   Each license or permit shall terminate upon termination of the
required insurance coverage.
      (2)   Insurance requirements are as follows.
         (a)   The minimum amount of insurance required for injury to any one
person shall be $200,000.
         (b)   The minimum amount of insurance required for injury to two or
more persons shall be $500,000.
         (c)   The minimum amount of insurance required for property damage
shall be $100,000.
         (d)   The Council shall decide on a case by case basis if insurance
above the minimum amounts is required. If so decided, the licensee or permittee
must comply with this requirement.
§ 501.02 FEES.
   (A)   Fees established.
      (1)   License fees are in the amounts established in the governing
sections of this chapter or as otherwise provided in this code.
      (2)   The license and permit fees as set forth in various sections of
this code are the official and controlling provisions.
   (B)   Prorated fees. License fees shall be prorated as follows: if the
initial license is to run for less that a full year, the applicant shall pay a
pro rata fee, with any unexpired fraction of a month being counted as one
month.
   (C)   Refunds. License fees shall not be refunded in whole or in part unless
otherwise specified by this code or law.
§ 501.03 DURATION OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise specified, a license shall be valid for a calendar year or
the part of the year for which it is issued and shall expire on December 31.
§ 501.04 TRANSFER.
   No license issued under this code may be transferred to any other person.
Where a license relates to specific premises, the license shall not be changed
to another location without approval of the Council or other licensing
authority.
§ 501.05 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any city official or employee having a duty to perform with reference
to a license under this code and any police officer may inspect and examine any
licensee, his or her business or premises to enforce compliance with applicable
provisions of this code.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions hereof, he or she may, at any reasonable
time, enter any licensed premised or premises for which a license is required
in order to enforce compliance with this code.
§ 501.06 DUTIES OF LICENSEE.
   (A)   Compliance required. Every licensee and permittee shall have the
duties set forth in this section.
   (B)   Compliance with law. He or she shall comply with laws, ordinances and
regulations applicable to the licensed business, activity or property.
   (C)   Display of license. He or she shall display the license or other
insignia given him or her as evidence of the license in a conspicuous place on
the premises, vehicle or device to which the license relates. If the license is
not so related, the license shall be carried on the licensee’s person whenever
he or she is carrying on the licensed activity.
   (D)   Unlawful disposition. The licensee shall not lend or give to any other
person his or her license or license insignia.
§ 501.07 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   General. No person shall have a vested right in any license or permit,
and the license or permit may be suspended or revoked by the Council at any
time upon a showing that (M.S. § 507.07, p. 103, as it may be amended from time
to time):
      (1)   Any misrepresentation has been made in the application or in any
report required of the licensee or permittee; and/or
      (2)   The licensee or permittee has violated or caused to be violated any
provision of this part or the applicable state law.
   (B)   Hearing. Except where state statutes provide for mandatory revocation
without notice and hearing, and except where state statutes provide for
suspension without notice and hearing, the holder of a license or permit shall
be granted a hearing as provided by the state’s Administrative Procedure Act,
being M.S. Ch. 14, as it may be amended from time to time.
PART II. REFUSE/RECYCLING COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 502.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this part, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPULSORY DISPOSAL LIST. The list of persons within the city, who, by the
provisions of this part, are required to pay a monthly unit service fee for the
collection, transportation and disposal of refuse.
   CONTRACTOR. The city or any person, firm or corporation with whom the city
shall contract for the collection, transportation and disposal of refuse and/or
recyclables.
   FACILITY. The recycling processing facility provided by the Tri-County Joint
Powers Solid Waste Board.
   GARBAGE. Organic waste resulting from the preparation of food and decayed
and spoiled food from any source.
   HOUSEHOLD. Any residential unit within the city limits without distinction
as to the age or number of persons residing.
   MULTIPLE RESIDENCES. Any single structure containing any two or more
dwelling units.
   PERSON. Any natural person, corporation, firm or association.
   PLACE or PREMISES. Any dwelling houses; dwelling unit; apartment house or
mobile home; retail store; restaurant; rooming house; department store;
manufacturing, processing or assembling shop or plant; warehouse; and every
other place or premises where any person resides or any business is carried on
or conducted in the city.
   RECYCLABLES. The types of materials included on the collection list, which
would normally be discarded, but with proper separation and preparation can be
processed for reuse.
   REFUSE. Waste, garbage and rubbish of all kinds including, but not limited
to, garbage, waste paper, leaves, grass, debris from construction demolition,
hazardous materials, oils, rubbers, plastics, chemically-treated materials and
other materials which produce excessive or noxious smoke.
   RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
      (1)   FAMILY RESIDENTIAL UNITS. Any residential unit in which two or more
persons reside.
      (2)   SENIOR RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any residential unit in which the head of
the household or their spouse is 62 years of age or older, and wherein a total
of not more than three persons reside.
      (3)   SINGLE RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any residential unit in which one person,
and only one person, resides.
   SITE. An approved sanitary landfill waste disposal site and systems,
established according to standards adopted by the state, to which refuse shall
be transported and disposed of.
   TOTER. The container in which the recyclables are stored and placed at the
curb for collection.
   UNIT SERVICE FEE. The monthly charge made to owners and occupants of
residential property.
   YARD WASTE. All plant material generated from homeowners’ lawns, trees and
brush.
§ 502.02 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Burying, burning and composting of refuse.
      (1)   Burning and burying prohibited. No person shall burn or bury any
refuse in the city, except in an approved, sanitary landfill, but leaves, grass
clippings and easily biodegradable, non-poisonous garbage may be composted on
the premises where refuse has been accumulated.
      (2)   Composting. Garbage may be composted only in a rodent-proof
structure and in an otherwise sanitary manner and after the Council (Health
Officer) give its approval to composting after it finds that the composting
will be done in accordance with these standards.
   (B)   Burning; generally. Except as herein otherwise provided, it shall be
unlawful for any person within the city to cause, allow or permit open burning.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         OPEN BURNING.
            1.   OPEN BURNING shall be defined in accordance with the state’s
Pollution Control Agency’s rules and regulations restricting open burning. At
present, its definition of OPEN BURNING is the burning of any matter whereby
the resultant combustion products are directly emitted to the atmosphere
without passing through an adequate stack, duct or chimney.
            2.   A permit issued by the city, or state’s Pollution Control
Agency (PCA) pursuant to Minn. Rules Ch. 7001 et seq., shall be required for
any person, business or corporation needing an exception to this section.
            3.   OPEN BURNING. A fire burning in matter, whether concentrated
or dispersed, which is not contained within a fully enclosed firebox, structure
or vehicle, and from which products of combustion are emitted directly to the
open atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or chimney.
         RECREATIONAL FIRE. The burning of material other than rubbish for
pleasure, religious, ceremonial, cooking or similar purposes where the fuel
being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor fireplace, or barbecue
grill, and with a total fuel area of three feet or less in diameter and three
feet or less in height.
      (2)   Specific requirements.
         (a)   A burning permit must be obtained from the city or the city’s
Police Department before igniting a recreational fire.
         (b)   Recreational fires shall not be conducted within 25 feet of a
structure or combustible materials, and shall be contained in an approved fire
ring no larger than three feet in diameter and no lower than eight inches in
height, constructed of concrete or other approved non-combustible material;
conditions which could cause a fire to spread to within 25 feet of a structure
shall be eliminated prior to ignition.
         (c)   Buckets, shovels, garden hoses or a fire extinguisher with a
minimum 4-A rating shall be readily available for use at recreational fires or
open burning of dried leaves.
         (d)   Recreational fires shall be constantly attended by a person
knowledgeable in the use of fire extinguishing equipment. An attendant shall
supervise a recreational fire until the fire has been extinguished. Fires must
not be allowed to smolder with no flame present.
         (e)   Any officer of the Henderson Fire District, State DNR, the
city’s Police Department or the county’s Sheriff’s Department is authorized to
require that recreational fires be immediately discontinued if the fires are
determined to constitute a hazardous or nuisance condition.
         (f)   Recreational fires will not be allowed if a burning ban or air
pollution alert is in effect.
         (g)   Maximum wind speed, including gusts, must not exceed ten mph,
and the prevailing winds must be away from occupied structures before a
recreational fire shall be ignited.
§ 502.03 DISPOSAL REQUIRED.
   Every person shall dispose of refuse that may accumulate upon property owned
or occupied by him or her in a sanitary manner. Garbage shall be collected, or
otherwise lawfully disposed of, at least once each week during the year.
§ 502.04 CONTAINERS.
   (A)   General requirements. Every household, occupant or owner of any
residence and any restaurant, industrial establishment or commercial
establishment shall provide on the premises one or more containers to receive
and contain all refuse which may accumulate between collections. All normal
accumulations of refuse shall be deposited is such containers.
   (B)   Containers requirements. Each container shall be water-tight, shall be
impervious to insects and rodents, shall be fire-proof and shall not exceed 90
gallons in capacity; except that, any commercial or business establishment or
club shall provide bulk or box-type refuse storage containers. Containers shall
be maintained in good and sanitary conditions. Any containers not conforming to
the requirements of this part or having ragged or sharp edges or any other
defect likely to hamper or injure the person collecting the contents shall be
promptly replaced after notice by the city.
   (C)   Placement.
      (1)   Where any alley open to traffic is available, each container for
premises abutting the alley shall be placed at the rear of the property next to
the alley; where no alley exists, the container shall be placed near the rear
door of the building to which it relates. In that case, the container shall be
placed at the front line for collection, but it shall not be so placed before
6:00 p.m. the night before collection and shall be removed by 9:00 p.m. the day
of collection.
      (2)   Owners and occupants or residential property shall keep their
premises free from undue accumulation of snow so as not to interfere with
collection. Wherever such accumulation exists, collections will not be made.
   (D)   Use of containers. Refuse shall be drained of liquid and household
garbage shall be wrapped before being deposited in a container.
§ 502.05 CONTRACT FOR REFUSE/RECYCLING COLLECTION.
   (A)   Council to let contract. Subject to the provisions of this part, the
Council shall grant by contract in accordance with the law the authority to
collect and dispose of all refuse originating within the city. The City
Administrator shall prepare specifications for advertising for proposals for
such contract and he or she shall see that when let, the contract is executed
in accordance with its terms and this part. If the Council deems it advisable,
it may divide the city into districts and let a separate contract for the
collection of refuse in each district. It may also let a contract for the
pickup of certain recyclables.
   (B)   Liability insurance. It shall be a condition of the contract that the
applicant files with the City Administrator a current policy of public
liability insurance.
   (C)   Contract collector. No person shall collect refuse within the city
unless said person holds a contract with the city. No person shall permit
refuse to be picked up from to be picked up from his or her premises, except by
such contractor.
§ 502.06 VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this part shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (B)   Each act of violation shall constitute a misdemeanor and each act of
violation and each day a violation occurs or continues constitutes a separate
offense.
   (C)   Any violation of §
502.02 shall constitute a misdemeanor, punishable by up to a fine of $1,000 and
90 days in jail, plus the costs of prosecution which may be added.
PART III. DOGS
§ 503.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this part, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any premises designated by the City Council for the purpose
of impounding and caring for dogs under authority of this part.
   OFFICER. Any law enforcement officer of the city and persons designated by
the city to assist in the enforcement of this part.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, partnership, organization, department or
corporation possessing, harboring, keeping or having an interest in, or having
care, custody or control of a dog or dogs.
§ 503.02 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITION.
   (A)   No dogs shall be permitted to run at large within the limits of the
city. This restriction does not prohibit the appearance of any dog upon streets
or public property when the dog is on a leash and is kept under control of the
person in charge with its care.
   (B)   The first violation of this section within a 12-month period by the
owner of the dog shall be handled administratively with notice of the violation
provided by the Police Department, including the administrative penalty to be
paid and the time in which to pay.
      (1)   Failure to pay the administrative penalty will result in criminal
charges being filed.
      (2)   Any subsequent violation within a 12-month period shall also be
criminally charged as a misdemeanor.
§ 503.03 LICENSES.
   (A)   Registration required. No person shall keep any dog over four months
of age within the city without registering the same with the Chief of Police.
Registration shall be made on forms prescribed by the City Administrator, which
form shall set forth:
      (1)   The name and address of owner along with contact information
including phone numbers for each;
      (2)   The name and address of the person making application, if other
than the owner; and
      (3)   The breed, sex, and age of the dog for which a license is sought.
   (B)   Registration fees; expiration. The annual fee shall be $5, plus cost
of tag for each male and female dog. Every license shall expire one year from
date of issue.
   (C)   Rabies vaccination.
      (1)   Every application for registration shall be accompanied by a
certificate from a qualified veterinarian showing that the dog to be registered
has been given a vaccination against rabies within the time hereinafter
specified.
      (2)   No registration shall be issued for a spayed female dog unless the
shall be filed with the application for a license a written statement of a
licensed veterinarian to the effect that such a dog has been spayed or
otherwise rendered sterile.
   (D)   Affixing tag.
      (1)   The owner of a dog shall permanently affix an identification tag to
the collar of the dog registered in such a manner that the tag may be easily
seen or read by law enforcement. Each tag shall be affixed by the owner of said
dog. Each tag shall include a phone number for the owner of the dog.
      (2)   The owner shall see that the tag is constantly worn by the dog.
      (3)   Upon the transfer of a dog to a new owner, the new owner shall,
within ten days of transfer apply for a new registration. The new owner shall
affix an identification tag to the dog in compliance with this section.
(Ord. 248, passed 11-20-2024)
§ 503.04 DOG NUISANCES.
   (A)    The owner or custodian of any dog shall prevent the dog from
committing in the city any act that constitutes a nuisance. It is a nuisance
for any dog to habitually or frequently bark or cry, to frequent school
grounds, parks, or public beaches, to chase people or vehicles in public, to
charge at, chase, or annoy any person away from the property of his or her
owner or custodian, or to damage, defile or destroy public or private property.
Failure of the owner or custodian of a dog to prevent the dog from committing
such a nuisance is a violation of this part.
   (B)   It is the dog owner’s lawful responsibility to immediately pick up its
dog’s waste if on property other than its owner’s and properly dispose of it.
   (C)   No more than three dogs older than four months are allowed to be kept
or housed at a property. For rental properties, dogs shall be allowed if
allowed by the landlord/rental contract. If allowed by the landlord/rental
contract there shall be no more than three dogs older than four months. If
disallowed by the landlord/rental contract no dogs shall be kept on the
premises.
(Ord. 241, passed 1-17-2024)
§ 503.05 QUARANTINE OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any dog bites a person, the owner of such dog or the
person so bitten shall immediately notify the Chief of Police (or officer on
duty in the event the Police Chief is not available), who shall order the owner
to strictly confine the dog on the owner’s premises or other suitable place or
veterinarian hospital or animal shall be securely confined and kept from
contact with any other animal. At the discretion of the Police Chief, if he or
she requires other confinement, the owner shall, at his or her own expense,
place it in a veterinary hospital.
      (2)   The dog shall be examined by a veterinarian certifies the dog is
then free from clinical evidence of rabies, the dog shall then be released to
the owner and the period of confinement shall end. If the dog dies during the
period of confinement, it shall be the responsibility of the Public Health
Officer of the city to make arrangements with the Public Health Department of
the state for proper investigation and examination to determine whether or not
such dog was suffering from rabies.
   (B)   Cost of examination of dogs provided for under this section shall be
borne by the owner of the dog. Failure to pay such cost by the owner of said
dog within 30 days after receipt of a billing therefor shall be deemed to be a
violation of this part.
§ 503.06 MUZZLING PROCLAMATION.
   Whenever the prevalence of rabies renders such action necessary to protect
the public health and safety, the Council shall issue a proclamation ordering
every person owning or keeping a dog to muzzle securely so that it cannot bite.
No person shall violate such proclamation and any unmuzzled dog restrained
during the time fixed in the proclamation shall be subject to impoundment and
the owner of such dog shall be subject to the penalty hereinafter provided.
§ 503.07 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Police to impound.
      (1)   Any dog found unlicensed or running at large contrary to the
provisions of this part may be impounded in a veterinary facility, or boarding
facility. Notice of the impoundment shall be in accordance with divisions (B)
or (D) below.
      (2)   If the owner or lawful possessor of the animal has not claimed the
animal within ten days after such notice, the not claimed animal is abandoned
and the owner has no further rights or claim to the animal.
      (3)   The police officer impounding any dog shall follow these
guidelines.
         (a)   Animals shall not be transported in a police car.
         (b)   An officer is not required to pick up any animal unless the
officer determines that the animal is injured or poses a threat to the safety
of the residents.
         (c)   If an animal is identified as belonging to a resident of the
city, an attempt shall be made to deliver the animal to the resident or notify
the resident prior to impounding. However, the officer shall always retain the
right to ticket such resident for violation of the provisions of this part.
   (B)   Notice of impoundment.
      (1)   The notice required under division (A) above shall be given by the
veterinarian, boarding facility or police officer to the owner or the owner’s
agent at the person’s last known address by certified mail, return receipt
requested, or may be served upon the owner or owner’s agent in the manner that
a summons is served in a civil court action in the district courts.
      (2)   The notice must notify the owner or owner’s agent that the animal
may be redeemed by paying all prior expenses incurred within ten days or the
animal is abandoned and will be disposed of in accordance with this section.
   (C)   Disposition.
      (1)   If the animal is not claimed within ten days, the veterinarian or
boarding facility becomes the owner of the animal and the animal may be
disposed of as they consider proper.
      (2)   Upon the veterinarian or boarding facility becoming the owner of
the animal, the veterinarian or boarding facility is relieved of any liability
for disposal of the animal.
   (D)   Additional notice. If the notice under division (B) above is not given
to the owner or owner’s agent, or if the address of the owner or owner’s agent
is not known, notice must be given by the veterinarian, boarding facility or
police officer by publishing one notice in a legal newspaper circulated in the
county where the animal was delivered to the veterinarian or boarding facility
not less than ten days before the animal is to become the property of the
veterinarian or boarding facility under division (C) above. The published
notice must contain the information required in division (B) above.
   (E)   Penalty. Notwithstanding this section, the owner of an impounded dog
shall remain subject to all other penalties in this part.
§ 503.08 PROCEEDINGS FOR DESTRUCTION OF CERTAIN DOGS.
   (A)   Complaint made.
      (1)   Sworn complaint to a court or proper jurisdiction that any one of
the following exists:
         (a)   Any dog at any time has destroyed property or habitually
trespasses in a damaging manner on the property or person other than the owner;
         (b)   Any dog at any time has attacked or bitten a person outside the
owner or custodian’s premises;
         (c)   Any dog is a public nuisance as heretofore defined;
         (d)   Any dog is vicious or show vicious habits or molests pedestrians
or interferes with vehicles in the public streets or highways; or
         (e)   Any dog is running at large in violation of this chapter.
            1.   The presiding officer of said court shall issue a summons
directed to the owner of said dog commanding him or her to appear before said
court to show cause why said dog should not be seized by any police officer, or
otherwise disposed of in the manner authorized in this part.
            2.   Such summons shall be returnable not less than two, nor more
than six, days from the date thereof and shall be served at hearing and finding
the facts true as complained or, the court may either order the dog killed or
order the owner or custodian to keep it confined in a designated place if the
owner or custodian violates such order provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Costs of the proceeding specified by this section shall be assessed
against the owner or custodian of the dog, if the facts in the complaint are
found to be true, or to the complaint, if the facts are found to be untrue.
   (B)   Summary destruction of certain dogs. Whenever an officer has
reasonable cause to believe that a particular dog presents a clear and
immediate danger to residents of the city because it is infected with rabies
(hydrophobia) or because of a clearly demonstrated vicious nature, the officer,
after making reasonable attempts to impound such dog, may summarily destroy
such dog.
§ 503.09 OWNER’S OBLIGATION FOR PROPER CARE.
   (A)   No owner shall fail to provide any animal with sufficient good
wholesome food and water, proper shelter and protection from the weather,
veterinary care when needed to prevent suffering and humane care and treatment.
   (B)   No person shall beat, treat cruelly, torment or otherwise abuse any
animal, or cause or permit any dog fight. No owner of a dog shall abandon such
animal.
§ 503.10 APPOINTMENT OF OFFICERS.
   The City Council may from time to time appoint such persons as may be
necessary to assist the police officer of the city in the enforcement of this
part. Such persons shall have police powers insofar as in necessary to enforce
this part and no person shall interfere with, hinder or molest them in the
exercise of such powers.
§ 503.11 NON-RESIDENTS.
   The sections of this part requiring a license shall not apply to non-
residents of the city; provided that, dogs of such owners shall not be kept in
the city longer than 30 days without a license and shall be kept under
restraint.
§ 503.12 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   The definition and provisions pertaining to regulations of dangerous dogs
contained is M.S. §§ 347.50 to 347.54, as they may be amended from time to
time, are adopted reference. In addition, the owner of a dangerous dog shall
provide a copy of the certificate of registration issued by the county to the
city within two days of its issuance.
§ 503.13 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person keeping a dog without a license or allowing a dog under his
or her control to run at large is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any owner found guilty of violating any other provision this part
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished in accordance with the
laws of the state for misdemeanors.
PART IV. OTHER ANIMALS
§ 504.01 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   No person shall keep any horse, cattle, pigs, sheep or goat in the city, or
permit such animal to be kept on premises owned, occupied or controlled by him
or her, except under the conditions prescribed by this part.
§ 504.02 AREAS WHERE KEEPING PROHIBITED.
   No horse, cattle, sheep, pigs or goat shall be kept in the city without a
license or permit for the City Council, except within the Agricultural Zone.
§ 504.03 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   (A)   No person shall permit any animal of which he or she is the owner,
caretaker or custodian to be at large within the city.
   (B)   Any such animal is deemed to be at large when it is off the premises
owned or rented by the owner or his or her agent and not under his or her
individual restraint.
§ 504.04 DISEASED ANIMALS.
   Any animal with a contagious disease shall be so confined that it cannot
come within 50 feet of any public roadway or any place where animals belonging
to harbored by another person are kept.
§ 504.05 MANNER OF KEEPING.
   No person shall keep any dog, cat or other animal in the city in an
unsanitary place or condition or in a manner resulting in objectionable odors
or in such a way as to constitute a disturbance by reason of barking, howling,
fighting or other noise or in such a way as to permit the animal to annoy,
injure or endanger any person or property.
§ 504.06 CARE OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Clean shelters. Every structure and yard in which animals or fowl are
kept shall be maintained in a clean and sanitary condition and free of all
rodents, vermin and objectionable odors. The interior walls, ceilings, floors,
partitions and appurtenances of any such structure shall be whitewashed or
painted as the Health Officer shall direct. Upon the complaint of any
individual or otherwise, the Health Officer shall inspect such structure or
yard and issue any such order as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the
provisions of this Part 4.
   (B)   Manure. Manure shall be removed with sufficient frequency to avoid
nuisance from odors or from the breeding of flies, at least once per month from
October 1 to May 1 each year and once every two weeks at other times. Unless
used for fertilizer, manure shall be removed by hauling beyond the city limits.
If used for fertilizer, manure shall be spread upon the ground evenly and
turned at once or as soon as the frost leaves the ground.
§ 504.07 IMPOUNDING.
   (A)   Who impounds. Any police officer may take up and impound in the city
pound any animal found running at large in violation of this part and shall
provide proper sustenance for every animal impounded.
   (B)   Notice. Within 24 hours after any animal has been impounded, the pound
master shall post notices in three conspicuous places in the city, one of them
at the pound, describing the animal and stating that it has been impounded. He
or she shall also make a reasonable attempt to give oral or written notice to
the owner where known.
   (C)   Release. No animal impounded shall be released, except to a person
displaying a receipt showing payment of the impounding fee of the sale price.
   (D)   Fees. The fee for impounding shall be $10, plus payment of the cost of
food and shelter and any emergency medical costs provided by the pound.
   (E)   Sale. If any impounded animal is not redeemed within six days, the
pound master shall give an additional three-day posted notice, as provided in
division (B) above, of the time and place and where the animal shall be sold.
   (F)   Proceeds of sale. The Clerk shall turn over the proceeds of such sale
to the Treasurer. The Treasurer shall pay the pound master the costs of
impounding. The balance shall be paid, on order of the Council, to the owner of
the animal if claimed within one year from the date of sale; otherwise, it
shall be forfeited to the city.
   (G)   Illegal release. Unauthorized persons shall not break into the pound
or release any animal legally placed therein.
PART V. BINGO LAW
§ 505.01 BINGO LAWS.
   Those laws of the state relating to the game of bingo are adopted and made a
part of this part as if set out in full. In addition, the regulations of this
part apply to the conduct of bingo within the city.
§ 505.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   The unlicensed conduct of bingo within the city is prohibited. Any
organization authorized by law to conduct bingo occasions may do so only after
applying for and receiving a license from the Council.
PART VI. GAMBLING DEVICES, RAFFLES AND LOTTERY
§ 506.01 STATUTE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The provisions of M.S. § 349.155, as it may be amended from time to
time, relating to the licensing of certain kinds of gambling are adopted and
made a part of this part as if set out in full.
   (B)   In addition, the regulations imposed by this part apply to the conduct
of gambling so licensed.
§ 506.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall directly or indirectly operate a gambling device or conduct
a raffle without a license to do so as provided in this part.
§ 506.03 PERSONS ELIGIBLE FOR A LICENSE.
   License eligibility shall be based on the criteria established by the state
in M.S. § 349.25, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 506.04 APPLICATION.
   Application procedures shall follow standards a provided for in state
statutes.
§ 506.05 FIDELITY BOND.
   Bonds shall be posted as mandated per state statues.
§ 506.06 REVOCATION.
   No license shall have a vested right in any license under this part and the
license may be suspended or revoked by the Council at any time upon a showing
that:
   (A)   Any misrepresentation has been made in the license application or in
any part required of the licensee; or
   (B)   The licensee has violated or caused to be violated any provision of
this part or the applicable state law.
PART VII. PUBLIC DANCES
§ 507.01 PUBLIC DANCES.
   A PUBLIC DANCE, as the term is used in this part, shall be taken to mean any
dance wherein the public may participate, and shall include any dance unless:
   (A)   Such dance is a private dance by individual invitation only; and
   (B)   The sponsor of the dance restricts entry to dance to only those
individuals invited.
§ 507.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to give, hold or conduct a public
dance unless the owner or proprietor of the public dancing place, or the person
giving the same or in charge thereof shall first have procured a permit to
hold, give and conduct such public dance from the city’s Police Department.
   (B)   Permits shall be issued for each public dance. The permit shall be
issued at a fee and under such conditions as the City Council may provide.
§ 507.03 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Any person desiring a permit to hold, give or conduct a public dance
shall make application therefor upon blanks furnished by the city’s Police
Department, setting forth the name and address of the person, persons,
committee or organization who are to give, hold and conduct the same, the time
and place where such public dance is to be held, the type of dance and the
estimated number of persons to attend the dance.
   (B)   All applications for a permit shall be made at least 31 days prior to
the date of the dance.
§ 507.04 OFFICER OF THE LAW REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be incumbent upon the person to whom such permit is issued to
have an officer of the law present at every public dance to be given or held
thereunder during all the time the public dance is being held. Such officer of
the law shall be designated by the Police Department.
   (B)   In all cases, the fees and expenses of such officer of the law shall
be paid in advance by the person to whom the permit has been issued. Unless
otherwise determined by the Council, the Police Department may determine the
number of officers necessary.
§ 507.05 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this part
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
PART VIII. REGULATION AND LICENSING OF MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL AMUSEMENT
MACHINES AND ARCADES
§ 508.01 STATUTE ADOPTED.
   The provision of M.S. § 449.15, as it may be amended from time to time,
relating to the licensing of amusement machines and arcades are adopted and
made a part of this part as if set out in full. In addition, the regulations
imposed by this part apply to the operation of said amusement machines and
centers so licensed.
§ 508.02 DEFINITION.
   An AMUSEMENT ARCADE is hereby defined as any establishment available for
public use which utilizes in its operation amusement devices including, but not
limited to, pool tables, table tennis, shuffle board or any mechanical or
electric amusement device which is commonly, but not necessarily played by the
insertion of money or at a fee fixed and charged by the establishment, and
whose principal source of revenue is derived from such devices. This definition
shall not include bowling alleys.
§ 508.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall directly or indirectly operate an amusement machine
arcade without first obtaining a license to do so as provided in this part by
the Police Department.
   (B)   No such license shall be transferable to any other person or location,
and must be affixed and exhibited in plain view on the premises.
§ 508.04 APPLICATION.
   The applicant shall provide name, place where amusement device is to be
located, home address of all persons listed on the application, the type of
amusement device to be licensed and the hours of operation.
§ 508.05 LICENSE FEE.
   The annual fee for the license shall be $15 per location, plus $15 per
machine, following M.S. § 449.15, as it may be amended from time to time.
Regardless of when the fee is paid, the annual license expires on December 31
of each year.
§ 508.06 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   The applicant shall furnish with the license application a policy or
certificate of liability insurance in the sum of not less than $100,000 for
injury of one person, nor less than $300,000 for one incident, which policy
shall be written by an insurance company authorized to do business in the
state.
§ 508.07 RESTRICTIONS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   No amusement center shall be operated so as to constitute a public
nuisance.
   (B)   The licensee shall maintain order on the licensed premises at all
times. This duty includes, but is not limited to, prevention of the following:
      (1)   Harassment of any person in or adjacent to the licensed premises by
any person on the licensed premises;
      (2)   The frequenting or the use of the licensed premises by any loud,
boisterous or disruptive person;
      (3)   The frequenting or use of the licensed premises by any person who
engages in an act of vandalism or destruction of property in or about or
adjacent to the licensed premises; and
      (4)   Conduct by a person on the licensed premises, which conduct has an
adverse effect on adjacent property.
   (C)   The licensee shall ensure the proper and swift disposal of trash or
refuse which may accumulate on the site.
   (D)   The licensee shall see that the licensed premises do not become
overcrowded so as to constitute a hazard to the health or safety of person
therein. The Fire Marshal shall designate a post the maximum number of persons
to be permitted on the licensed premises.
   (E)   The licensee shall provide a full-time attendant at least 21 years of
age upon the licensed premises during business hours. The licensed premises
shall be locked and closed to the public whenever such attendant is not present
thereon.
   (F)   It is unlawful for the licensee or any person operating an amusement
center to sell, offer for sale, or knowingly permit to be sold or offered for
sale, or to be dispensed or consumed, or knowingly brought in the amusement
center, any alcoholic beverage or prohibited drug, or to knowingly allow any
illegal activity upon the licensed premises including, but not limited to,
gambling.
   (G)   Amusement centers shall be closed by 10:00 p.m. on Sunday through
Thursday or 12:00 midnight on Fridays and Saturdays and may not open until 9:00
a.m. or until 12:00 noon on Sundays. At all other times, the licensed premises
shall be locked and closed to the public.
   (H)   The interior of an amusement center shall be illuminated as to ensure
proper and complete observation of patron at all times. The Building Inspector
may require conformance with his or her recommended standards for lighting
levels to carry out the intent of this division (H).
   (I)   The sale of smoking material shall be prohibited on the site.
   (J)   The premises in which an amusement center is located shall have
adequate access as required by the Uniform Building Code, but may have no
entrances to or exits from adjoining buildings.
   (K)   Bike racks may be required to ensure safe and adequate ingress and
egress for pedestrian traffic to the building.
   (L)   No juvenile shall be permitted on the premises during regular school
hours and after ‘curfew’. The arcade operator shall report any truant juveniles
to the police during those school hours as identified by Le Sueur Henderson
Public and Private School Administrators.
§ 508.08 REVOCATION.
   No licensee shall have a vested right in any license under this part and the
license may be suspended or revoked by the Council at any time upon a showing
that:
   (A)   Any misrepresentation has been made in the license application or in
any part required of the licensee; or
   (B)   The licensee has violated or caused to be violated any provision of
this part or the applicable state law.
§ 508.09 SEVERABILITY.
   If any part of this part shall be adjudged invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, such judgment decree shall not affect or impair the remainder of
this part.
§ 508.10 PENALTIES.
   Any person, firm, partnership or corporation found guilty of violating the
provisions of this part shall be deemed to be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $700 or by imprisonment for a period
not to exceed 90 days or both, plus in either case the cost of prosecution.
CHAPTER VI: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
Part I. In General
   
601.01   Provisions of state law adopted
   
601.02   Construction of words and phrases
   
601.03   License required
   
601.04   License fees
   
601.05   Prohibitions and restrictions relating to minors
   
601.06   Posting of licenses
   
601.07   Licensee responsible for conduct of business - acts of employees and
the like
   
601.08   Transferability of licenses
   
601.09   Inspections
   
601.10   Hours of operation
   
601.11   Prohibited activities
   
601.12   Liquor deals stamp
   
601.13   Federal stamps
Part II. Licensing Procedure
   
602.01   Person required to be licensed by city
   
602.02   Minimum eligibility requirements for license
   
602.03   Applications for license
   
602.04   Granting of licenses
   
602.05   Places ineligible
   
602.06   Conditions of license
   
602.07   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
Part III. Suspension and Revocation of Licenses
   
603.01   License revocation and suspension
Part IV. Penalty for Violation
   
604.01   Penalty
PART I. IN GENERAL
§ 601.01 PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time,
relating to the definition of terms, licensing, consumption, sales, conditions
of bonds of licenses, hours of sale and all other matters pertaining to the
retail sale, distribution and consumption of intoxicating liquor are adopted
and made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. In the event of
provision(s) of this chapter is/are more restrictive than state law, then the
provision(s) of this chapter shall take precedence.
§ 601.02 CONSTRUCTION OF WORDS AND PHRASES.
   Words and phrases defined in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended from time
to time, shall, when used in this chapter, have the same meaning as defined in
those sections of the state statutes.
§ 601.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   General requirement.
      (1)   No person, except a wholesaler of manufacturer to the extent
authorized under state license, shall directly or indirectly deal in, sell or
keep for sale in the city any intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor without a
license to do so as provided in this chapter. Licenses shall be of seven kinds:
‘on-sale intoxicating’, ‘on-sale wine’, ‘off-sale intoxicating’, ‘special club
license’, ‘on-sale 3.2% malt liquor’, ‘off-sale 3.2% malt liquor’ and
‘temporary 3.2% malt liquor’. No one shall directly or indirectly deal in, sell
or keep for sale in the city any intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor without the
appropriate license.
      (2)   This shall mean that a licensee holding an on-sale or off-sale
intoxicating liquor license must make application for and be granted an on-sale
or off-sale 3.2% malt liquor license from the city as provided in M.S. Ch.
340A, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   On-sale intoxicating licenses. On-sale intoxicating licenses shall be
issued only to clubs, restaurants and exclusive liquor stores and shall permit
on-sale of liquor only. The number of on-sale intoxicating licenses shall be
limited to a maximum of four and shall not include on-sale wine licenses or on-
sale intoxicating licenses issued to restaurants.
   (C)   On-sale wine licenses.
      (1)   On-sale wine licenses shall be issued only to a restaurant having
facilities for seating at least 25 guests at one time and shall permit the sale
of wine not to exceed 24% of alcohol by volume for consumption with the sale of
food. A wine license authorizes the sale of wine on all days of the week unless
the city restricts the license’s authorization to the sale of wine on all days,
except Sundays.
      (2)   The holder of an on-sale wine license must have gross receipts of
at least 10% attributable to the sale of food.
      (3)   A licensed bed and breakfast facility may be issued an on-sale wine
license, but service will be limited only to registered guests of the facility
and, if the facility contains a licensed commercial kitchen, then to guests
attending private events at the facility.
      (4)   The license for the issuance of a wine license shall not exceed
one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license.
      (5)   Temporary off-sale licenses; wine auctions.
         (a)   The city may issue a temporary license for the off-sale of wine
at an auction with the approval of the Commissioner.
         (b)   A license issued under this division (C)(5) authorizes the sale
of only vintage wine of a brand and vintage that is not commonly being offered
for sale by any wholesaler in the state. The license may authorize the off-sale
of wine for not more than three consecutive days, provided not more than 600
cases of wine are sold at any auction.
         (c)   The license is subject to the terms, including license fee,
imposed by the city. Licenses issued under this division (C)(5) are subject to
all laws and ordinances governing the sale of intoxicating liquor, except M.S.
§ 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, and those laws and
ordinances which, by their nature, are not applicable.
         (d)   As used in the division (C)(5), VINTAGE WINE means bottled wine
which is at least five years old.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor license. Off-sale intoxicating liquor
licenses shall be issued only to exclusive liquor stores and shall permit off-
sales of intoxicating liquor only: no limit.
   (E)   Special club licenses. Special club licenses shall be issued only to
bona fide and incorporated clubs which have been in existence for three years
or more or to congressional chartered veteran’s organizations which have been
in existence for three years and liquor sales will only be to members and bona
fide quests.
   (F)   On-sale 3.2% liquor licenses. On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses
shall be granted only to bona fide clubs, beer stores, restaurants and hotels
where food is prepared and served for consumption on the premises. On-sale 3.2%
malt liquors are for consumption on the premises only.
   (G)   Off-sale 3.2% liquor licenses. Off-sale 3.2% malt liquor licenses
shall permit the sale of beer at retail, in the original package for
consumption off the premises only.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale 3.2 % liquor licenses. Temporary on-sale 3.2% malt
liquor licenses shall be granted only to bona fide clubs and charitable,
religious and non-profit organizations for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor for
consumption on the premises only.
   (I)   Sunday liquor.
      (1)   Special on-sale licenses for the sale of intoxicating liquor on
Sunday shall be issued only to a restaurant which holds an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license.
      (2)   A RESTAURANT, for the purposes of this division (I), shall be
defined as an establishment, other than a hotel, under the control of a single
proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly served at table to the general
public, and having seating capacity for guest of 30 and which prepared food on
site in a kitchen which meets the standards of the state for restaurant
facilities.
      (3)   All sales at such establishments shall be in accordance with M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 601.04 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Fees.
      (1)   All license fees for the sale of alcoholic beverages shall be
determined annually by resolution of the Council.
      (2)   Fees for a Sunday liquor license shall not exceed $200 per year.
   (B)   Payment.
      (1)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt
from the City Treasurer for payment in full of the license fee.
      (2)   All fees shall be paid into the General Fund.
   (C)   Term; pro rata fee.
      (1)   Each license shall be issued for a period of one year; except that,
if the application is made during the license year, a license may be issued for
the remainder of the year for a pro rata fee, with an unexpired fraction of a
month being counted as one month.
      (2)   Every license shall expire on December 31.
§ 601.05 PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for:
   (A)   A person under the age of 21 years to enter any premises licensed for
retail sale of intoxicating or 3.2% liquor for the purpose of purchasing, or
having served or delivered to him or her, any alcoholic beverages containing
more than 0.5% of alcohol by volume. Also, it shall be unlawful for a person
under the age of 21 years to enter any premises licensed for the retail sale of
intoxicating or 3.2% malt alcoholic beverages unless accompanied by parent or
legal guardian;
   (B)   A person under the age of 21 years to consume any intoxicating liquor
or to purchase, attempt to purchase or have another purchase for him or her any
intoxicating liquor;
   (C)   Any person to misrepresent or misstate his or her age, or the age of
any other person for the purpose inducing any licensee or any employee of any
licensee, to sell, serve or deliver any alcoholic beverage to a person under
the age of 21 years;
   (D)   A person under the age of 21 years to have in his or her possession
any intoxicating liquor, with intent to consume in at a place other than the
household of his or her parent or guardian. Possession of such intoxicating
liquor at a place other that the household of his or her parent or guardian
shall be prima facie evidence of intent to consume it at a place other than the
household of his or her parent or guardian;
   (E)   Any person to sell, serve or furnish intoxicating liquor, in whatever
form, to a person under the age of 21 years; and/or
   (F)   No person under 18 years of age shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors are sold at retail on-
sale; except that, persons under 18 years of age shall be employed in any rooms
or to perform the duties of a busboy or dishwashing services in places defined
as a restaurant or hotel or motel serving food in rooms in which intoxicating
liquors are sold at retail on-sale.
§ 601.06 POSTING OF LICENSES.
   Each license issued under this chapter shall be posted and maintained in a
conspicuous place within the premises licensed.
§ 601.07 LICENSEE RESPONSIBLE FOR CONDUCT OF BUSINESS - ACTS OF EMPLOYEES AND
THE LIKE.
   (A)   Every licensee under this chapter shall be responsible for the conduct
of his or her place of business and the conditions of sobriety and order in it.
   (B)   The act of any employee on the licensed premises authorized to serve
or sell intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor shall be deemed the act of the
licensee as well, and the licensee shall be liable to all penalties provided by
this code equally with the employee.
§ 601.08 TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSES.
   No licenses granted under this chapter shall be transferable or assignable
as to person and may be transferred from one premises to another only with the
express approval of the City Council.
§ 601.09 INSPECTIONS.
   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, Health Officer or properly
designed officer or employee of the city to enter, inspect and search the
premises of the licensee during business hours without a warrant.
§ 601.10 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   (A)   Hours of sale; in general. No sale of intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor
shall be made during any hours prohibited by state law.
   (B)   Time to leave. All persons, excepting the licensee or its employees,
shall vacate the licensed premises no later than 20 minutes after the closing
hour, as prescribed herein.
   (C)   Removal from premises. All off-sale items purchased shall be removed
from the licensed premises no later that the hour of last sale mandated by
state law (currently 10:00 p.m.) of the same day of purchase.
§ 601.11 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Business hours. The licensed premises shall not be open for business
of any kind during the hours when sales of intoxicating and 3.2% malt liquor
are prohibited.
   (B)   Prohibited business. No business prohibited by state law is allowed to
take place on the premises.
   (C)   Gambling.
      (1)   Gambling equipment may be kept or operated and raffles and
lotteries conducted on licensed premises and adjoining rooms when the use of
the gambling equipment is authorized under M.S. Ch. 349, as it may be amended
from time to time.
      (2)   The definitions and prohibitions pertaining to gambling devices in
M.S. § 349.30, as it may be amended from time to time, are adopted by
reference.
   (D)   Other activities. A licensee is prohibited from conducting any
activity constituting a nuisance as the same is defined by city ordinance.
§ 601.12 LIQUOR DEALS STAMP.
   No licensee shall sell beer while holding or exhibiting in the licensed
premises a federal retail liquor dealers’ special tax stamp unless he or she is
licensed under the laws of the state to sell intoxicating liquor.
§ 601.13 FEDERAL STAMPS.
   No licensee shall possess a federal wholesale liquor dealers special tax
stamp or a federal gambling stamp.
PART II. LICENSING PROCEDURE
§ 602.01 PERSON REQUIRED TO BE LICENSED BY CITY.
   No person, except one authorized under state license for which no
corresponding license may be required, shall sell, offer or keep for sale or
otherwise deal in intoxicating or 3.2% liquor without a currently valid city
license thereof.
§ 602.02 MINIMUM ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSE.
   No retail license issued under this part shall be issued unless the
applicant(s) adheres to the criteria in M.S. § 340A.402, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 602.03 APPLICATIONS FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license to sell intoxicating or 3.2%
liquor shall state the name of the applicant, his or her age, representations
as to his or her character, with such references as the council may require,
the type of license applies for, the business in connection with which the
proposed license will operate and its location, whether the applicant is owner
and operator of the business at that place and such other information as the
Council may require from time to time.
   (B)   Liability insurance. All licensees, including temporary licensees,
shall be required to have in force a policy of insurance conforming to the
requirements of M.S. § 340A.409, Subd. 1, the Liquor Act, as it may be amended
from time to time. Exceptions to the insurance requirement as permitted under
M.S. § 340A.409, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time, shall not
apply to licenses issued by the city.
§ 602.04 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Preliminary investigation. On an initial application for an on-sale
license and on application for transfer of an existing on-sale license, the
city shall conduct a preliminary background and financial investigation of the
applicant. The application in such case shall be made on a form prescribed by
the state’s Bureau of Criminal Apprehension and with additional information as
the Council may require. If the Council deems it in the public interest to have
an investigation made on a particular applicant for renewal of an on-sale
license, it shall so determine. In any case, if the Council determines that a
comprehensive background and financial investigation of the applicant is
necessary, it may conduct the investigation itself or contract with the Bureau
of Criminal Investigation for the investigation. No license shall be issued,
transferred or renewed if the results show to the satisfaction of the Council
that issuance would not be in the public interest. If an investigation outside
the state is required, the applicant shall be charged the cost not to exceed
$100,000, which shall be paid by the applicant after deducting any initial
investigation fee already paid. The fee shall be payable by the applicant
whether or not the license is granted.
   (B)   Hearing and issuance. The City Council shall investigate all facts set
out in the application and not investigated in the preliminary background and
financial investigation conducted pursuant to division (A) above. The City
Council may grant hearing as it deems necessary. Upon completion of its
investigation and such hearings, if any, as may be held, the City Council
shall, in its desecration, grant or refuse the application. No off-sale license
shall become effective until it, together with the security furnished by the
applicant, has been approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 602.05 PLACES INELIGIBLE.
   (A)   General prohibition.
      (1)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for such a license under state law.
      (2)   No license shall be issued for any place/establishment already
holding an adult use or sexually-oriented business license for the same
premises.
   (B)   Delinquent taxes and charges. No license shall be granted for
operation on any premises on which taxes, assessments or other financial claims
of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
§ 602.06 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   In general. Every license is subject to the conditions and all
provisions contained in this chapter and of any other applicable ordinances,
state law or regulation.
   (B)   Insurance. Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of
state law and of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license granted
pursuant to this chapter.
§ 602.07 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   (A)   Liquor in unlicensed places. No person shall mix or prepare liquor for
consumption in any public place or place of business unless it has an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license or a permit from the Commissioner of Public Safety
under M.S. § 340A.404, as it may be amended from time to time, and no person
shall consume liquor in any such place without a license.
   (B)   Consumption in public places.
      (1)   Intoxicating liquors.
         (a)   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor on a public highway,
public park or other public place.
         (b)   Exception: a person may consume intoxicating liquor in a public
park; provided, the proper permit authorizing this conduct has been procured
from the city.
      (2)   3.2% liquors. No person shall consume 3.2% liquor in a public park
or other public place.
         (a)   Exception: a person may consume 3.2% liquor in a public park or
other public place where said 3.2% liquor was purchased form a vendor licensed
by the city to sell said beverages for consumption on the premises only.
         (b)   Exception: a person may consume 3.2% liquor in a public park;
provided, the proper permit authorizing this conduct has been procured for the
city.
PART III. SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSES
§ 603.01 LICENSE REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION.
   License revocation and suspension procedures shall follow M.S. § 340A.415,
the Liquor Act, as it may be amended from time to time.
PART IV. PENALTY FOR VIOLATION
§ 604.01 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not
more than $700 and or imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 90
days, plus costs of prosecution in either case. , Motor Vehicles, Snowmobiles
and Recreational Vehicles
CHAPTER VII: TRAFFIC, MOTOR VEHICLES, SNOWMOBILES AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
701.01   Provisions of state law adopted
   
701.02   Traffic
   
701.03   Snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles
   
701.04   Golf carts
§ 701.01 PROVISIONS OF STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to time, with
reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operations, restrictions on
use and all other matters pertaining to the operation of motor vehicles are
adopted and made a part of this chapter as if set out in full.
§ 701.02 TRAFFIC.
   The following sections shall control, notwithstanding provisions contained
within M.S. §§ 169.011 et seq., as they may be amended from time to time.
   (A)   Accidents - duties of driver.
      (1)   A driver of any vehicle involved in any accident resulting in
injury or death of any person shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene
of said accident, or as close thereto as possible, but shall then forthwith
return to, and in every event shall remain at the scene of the accident until
he or she has given name, address and registration number of the vehicle he or
she is driving and, upon request, exhibit his or her driver’s or chauffeur’s
license to the person struck or the driver or occupant of or person attending
any vehicle collided with, and shall, if the vehicle or property damaged is
unattended, report the same to the police officer. Any person failing to stop
and comply with these requirements under such circumstances shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident to a vehicle
which is driven or attended by any person shall immediately stop such vehicle
at the scene of such accident, or as close thereto as possible, and shall
forthwith return to, and in every event shall remain at the scene of the
accident until he or she has fulfilled the requirements set forth in division
(A)(1) above as to the giving of information. Every stop shall be made without
obstructing traffic more than is necessary. Any person failing to stop and
comply with these requirements under such circumstance shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
      (3)   The driver of any vehicle which collides with and damages any
vehicle which is unattended, shall immediately stop and then and there either
locate and notify the driver or owner of such vehicle of the name and address
of the driver and owner of the vehicle striking the unattended vehicle, or
shall report the same to a police officer. Any person failing to comply with
the requirements under such circumstance shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (4)   The driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in only
damage to fixtures legally upon or adjacent to a highway shall take reasonable
steps to locate and notify the owner or person in charge of such property of
vehicle he or she is driving and shall, upon request and if available, exhibit
his or her driver’s or chauffeur’s license and make report of such accident.
Any person failing to stop or to comply with the requirements under such
circumstances shall be guilty of misdemeanor.
   (B)   U-turns. U-turns are prohibited at any time where designated as
prohibited. No U-turns may be made anywhere else in the city unless the way is
clearly visible for 1,000 feet in any direction.
   (C)   Declaration of a snow emergency; definitions. For the purposes of this
section, the term EMERGENCY means a condition created on city streets because
of the presence of snow, freezing rain, sleet or ice thereon or other natural
phenomenon which create or are likely to create hazardous road conditions or
impede the free movement of fire, health, police, emergency or other vehicular
traffic, when the same has been duly declared.
      (1)   Declaration of emergency. Whenever there is an accumulation of one
inch or more of snowfall, an emergency shall be deemed to exist.
      (2)   Unlawful act. During the period of any such emergency as herein
before provided for the following restrictions of parking shall effect:
         (a)   No vehicle shall be parked or left unattended on any portion of
the following public streets within the city between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and
6:00 a.m.:
            1.   On Main Street from Third Street to Seventh Street, one block
south between Main Street and Mill Street on Highway 93;
            2.   One block south between Main Street and Mill Street on South
Sixth Street; and
            3.   One-half block from Main Street North on North Fifth or County
Road #6.
         (b)   On all public streets within the city, other than those
designated in division (C)(2)(a) above, all vehicles shall have 24 hours prior
to the termination of such emergency period, be removed from any place thereon
where snow removal has not been completed.
      (3)   Exceptions. This section shall not apply to:
         (a)   Persons in charge of wreckers or authorized emergency vehicles
while actually serving mechanical, fire, police or medical emergencies; or
         (b)   Any street when it has been fully completed (curb to curb)
cleared, sanded, salted or cleaned.
      (4)   Parking rules in city parking lots and ramps. In city-owned parking
lots and ramps, the Council may limit the size and types of motor vehicles to
be parked thereon, hours of parking and prescribed method of parking; providing
that, such limitations and restrictions are marked of sign posted thereon. It
is unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle backed into a parking place,
to drive in a direction opposite the flow of traffic marketed by “one-way”
signs or arrows, or to park any vehicle in any city-owned parking lot or ramp
contrary to the restrictions or limitation’s marked on sign posted thereon.
      (5)   Impounding and removing vehicles. When any police officer finds a
vehicle standing upon a street or city-owned parking lot in violation of any
parking regulation, such officer is hereby authorized to require the driver or
other person in charge of such vehicle to removed the same to a position in
compliance with this chapter. When any police officer finds a vehicle
unattended upon any street or city- owned parking lot in violation of any
parking regulation, such officer is hereby authorized to impound such
unlawfully parked vehicle and to provide for the removal thereof and to removed
the same to a convenient garage or to another facility or place of safety;
provided that, if any charge shall be placed against such vehicle for cost of
removal or storage, or both, by anyone called upon to assist there with the
same shall be paid prior to removal from such place of storage or safekeeping.
      (6)   Loading zones. The Council may, by resolution, establish loading
zones to be used for the specific purpose of loading or unloading merchandise
from a commercial vehicle or vehicle temporarily being utilized in the
transport of merchandise. Such loading zones shall be installed by order of the
City Administrator where, in the judgment of the Council, a commercial loading
zone is justified, and duly sign posted.
      (7)   Violation. All violations will be treated as petty misdemeanors.
   (D)   Exhibition driving. No person shall turn, accelerate, decelerate or
otherwise operate a motor vehicle within the city in a manner which causes
unnecessary engine noise or backfire, squealing tires, skidding, sliding,
swaying, throwing of sand or gravel or in a manner simulating a race.
Unreasonable squealing or screeching sounds emitted by tires, or the throwing
of sand or gravel by the tires, is prima facie evidence of a violation of this
section.
   (E)   Police duties. The Police Department shall enforce the provisions of
this section and state traffic laws. Police officers are authorized to direct
all traffic within the city, either in person or by means of some visible or
audible signal, in conformity with this section and the safeguard pedestrians,
officers of the Police Department may direct as state traffic laws. Member of
the Fire Department may direct or assist the police in directing traffic at the
scene of a fire or in the immediate vicinity.
§ 701.03 SNOWMOBILES AND ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to supplement M.S. §§ 84.81
through 84.928 and Ch. 169, as they may be amended from time to time, with
respect to the operation of snowmobiles and all-terrain vehicles. Such statutes
are incorporated herein by reference. (The references to snowmobile enforcement
are intended to be more restrictive than state statute.)
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle used for recreational
purposes, including, but not limited to, trail bike, or other all terrain
vehicle, or motor vehicle licensed for highway operation which is being used
for off-road recreation.
      DEADMAN THROTTLE or SAFETY THROTTLE. A device which when pressure is
removed from the engine accelerator or throttle, causes the motor to be
disengaged from the driving mechanism.
      NATURAL TERRAIN. Areas other than roadways or driveways (private or
public), parking lots and other areas the surface of which has been
intentionally modified for motor operation thereon.
      OPERATE. To ride in or on and control the operation of a snowmobile or
all-terrain vehicle.
      OPERATOR. Every person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle.
      OWNER. A person, other than a lienholder having the property in or title
to snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle entitled to the use or possession thereof.
      PERSON. Includes an individual, partnership, corporation, the state and
its agencies and subdivisions, and any body of persons whether incorporated or
not.
      SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
steered by skies or runners.
   (C)   Restrictions.
      (1)   Snowmobiles. Except as herein specifically permitted and
authorized, it is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the
limits of the city. A snowmobile may be used on the portion of any right-of-way
of any public highway, street, road, trail or alley, and may in passing or
making a left turn operate on other lanes which are used for vehicle traffic in
the same direction, for purposes of going to or returning from a non-highway
area of permissible operation, by the most direct route. Snowmobiles may also
be operated upon the ditch bottom or the outside bank of trunk, county state
aid and county highways where such highways are so configured within the
corporate limits. Snowmobiles are strictly prohibited from operation on the
following:
         (a)   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel;
         (b)   On boulevards within any public right-of-way;
         (c)   On private property of another without specific permission of
the owner or person in control of said property; or
         (d)   On any other public place, except as may be specifically
permitted by other provisions of the city ordinances.
      (2)   All-terrain vehicles.
         (a)   Except as herein specifically permitted and authorized, it is
unlawful for any person to operate an all-terrain vehicle not licensed as a
motor vehicle within the limits of the city without a valid driver’s license,
current Minnesota state registration and insurance. This insurance will
include, at a minimum, bodily injury and property damage.
            1.   Alleys shall be used in all instances of travel unless there
is no other way to arrive at the destination without using a street.
            2.   All-terrain vehicles will take shortest route to and from
their destination.
            3.   All-terrain vehicles must not exceed more than ten mph within
the city.
            4.   All-terrain vehicles entering the city from East or West MN-19
should exit onto the nearest alley.
            5.   No riding on city parks, the levee or the levee slopes.
            6.   All-terrain vehicles traveling in the city shall not be
permitted in groups of more than two and when so will travel behind one
another.
         (b)   All-terrain vehicles are strictly prohibited from operation on
the following:
            1.   On a public sidewalk provided for pedestrian travel;
            2.   On boulevards within any public right-of-way;
            3.   On private property of another person without specific
permission of the owner or person in control of said property; and
            4.   On any other public place, except as may be specifically
permitted by other provisions of the city ordinances.
   (D)   Crossings. A snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle may make a direct
crossing of a street or highway or freeway providing:
      (1)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to the
direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction prevents
a quick and safe crossing;
      (2)   The snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle is brought to a complete stop
before crossing the shoulder or main traveled way;
      (3)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all on coming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
      (4)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made only
at an intersection or such street of highway with another public street or
highway; and
      (5)   If the crossing is made between the hours of one-half hour after
sunset to one-half hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility,
only if both front and rear lights are on.
   (E)   Traffic ordinances. City traffic ordinances shall apply to the
operation of snowmobiles or all-terrain vehicle upon streets and highways,
except for those relating to required equipment, and those which, by their
nature, have no application.
   (F)   Yielding. No snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle shall enter any
intersection without yielding the right-of-way to any vehicles or pedestrians
at the intersection, or so close to the intersection as to constitute an
immediate hazard.
   (G)   Persons under 18; snowmobile operation.
      (1)   No person under 14 years of age shall operate on streets or the
roadway surface of highways or make a direct crossing of a trunk, county state-
aid, county highway or city street as the operator of a snowmobile.
      (2)   A person 14 years of age or older, but less than 18 years of age,
may operate a snowmobile on streets and highways permitted under this section
and make a direct crossing of such streets and highways only if he or she has
in his or her immediate possession a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued
by the Commissioner, as provided by M.S. § 84.872, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   (H)   Prohibited activity. It is unlawful for the owner of a snowmobile or
all-terrain vehicle to permit the same to be operated contrary to the
provisions of this section.
   (I)   Operations.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile within the
limits of the city:
         (a)   At any place, while under the influence of alcohol or drugs as
defined in M.S. § 169.121, as it may be amended from time to time, which is
hereby incorporated herein by reference;
         (b)   At a rate of speed greater than ten mph in city limits, except
on the levee, designated trail or city park;
         (c)   At any place in a careless, reckless or negligent manner or
heedlessly in disregard to the rights or safety of others, or in a manner so as
to endanger or be likely to endanger or cause injury or damage to any person or
property;
         (d)   During the hours from 10:00 p.m. to 6:00 a.m. of any day, closer
than 100 feet to any dwelling which is usually occupied by one or more persons;
         (e)   So as to tow any person or thing, except through use of a rigid
tow bar attached to the rear of the snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle;
and
         (f)   Within 100 fee of any fisherman, pedestrian, skating rink or
sliding area where the operation would conflict with use or endanger other
persons or property.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to operate an all-terrain vehicle not
licensed for highway use.
   (J)   Equipment. It is unlawful for any person to operate a snowmobile or
all-terrain vehicle any place within the limits of the city unless it is
equipped with the following:
      (1)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the
noise of operation of them alter to the minimum necessary for operation. No
person shall use a muffler cutout or by-pass, straight pipe;
      (2)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle under any condition of operation;
      (3)   For snowmobiles only a safety or so-called “deadman” throttle in
operating condition;
      (4)   When operated between the hours of one-half hour after sunset to
one-half hour before sunrise or at times of reduced visibility, at least one
clear lamp attached to the front, with sufficient intensity to reveal persons
and vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet ahead during the hours of
darkness and under normal atmospheric conditions. Such head lamp shall be so
aimed that glaring rays are not projected into the eyes of an oncoming
snowmobile or recreational motor vehicle operator. It shall also be equipped
with at least one red tail lamp having a minimum candle power of sufficient
intensity to exhibit a red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to
the rear during hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions; and
      (5)   Reflective material at least 16 square inches on each side, forward
of the handlebars, or steering device of snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle at
the highest practical point on any towed object, as to reflect light at a 90-
degree angle.
   (K)   Removal of keys. Every person leaving a snowmobile or all-terrain
vehicle on a public place shall lock the ignition, remove the key and take the
same with him or her.
   (L)   Emergencies. Notwithstanding any prohibitions in this section, a
snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle may be operated on a public thoroughfare in
an emergency during the period of time when such emergency has been declared by
the designated official.
   (M)   Animals. It is unlawful to intentionally drive, chase, run over or
kill any animal with a snowmobile or all-terrain vehicle.
   (N)   Penalties. Every person convicted of a violation of any of the
provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine and/or sentence not to exceed $1,000
and/or incarceration not to exceed 90 days.
§ 701.04 GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to supplement M.S. Ch. 169,
as it may be amended from time to time, with respect to the operations of golf
carts within the city limits.
   (B)   Definition. A GOLF CART is an electric or gas engine powered cart from
under four to 20 horsepower, with a top speed of no more than 20 mph.
   (C)   Requirements for the lawful operation of golf carts.
      (1)   Application for and receipt of a permit to operate a golf cart
within the city limits in the manner provided in this section.
         (a)   Applications shall be made in writing upon forms furnished by
the city and shall include, but not be limited to, the following information:
            1.   Full name, address and date of birth of the owner;
            2.   Description and serial number of the motorized golf cart; and
            3.   Copy of vehicle registration, if any.
         (b)   The applicant must submit proof of insurance complying with the
provisions of M.S. § 65B.48, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time,
which requires basic economic loss benefits and residual liability coverage.
         (c)   The application must be accompanied by the $10 permit fee, the
amount of which will be set by resolution of the City Council from time to
time.
         (d)   Permits under this section shall be approved or denied by the
Chief of Police and must be approved or denied within 60 days after receipt of
the written application, unless additional information is needed. To obtain
such additional information, the Chief of Police must send written notice to
the applicant requesting such additional information within ten business days
after the receipt of such application, in which event, the 60-day time limit
shall commence upon receipt of such additional information. In the event that
such application is denied, the applicant may request a hearing before the City
Council by serving written notice of a request for hearing within ten days
after receipt of the Police Chief’s written notice of denial of such
application. The City Council shall hold a hearing allowing the applicant to
submit any additional information or evidence supporting the applicant’s
application under this section. The City Council shall thereafter make a
decision to approve or deny such application based upon the evidence in the
file and additional information provided by the applicant at the hearing.
         (e)   If the Chief of Police or City Council approves the application,
the City Clerk will issue the permit to the applicant.
         (f)   Each permit issued under this section shall be for a period of
time not to exceed three years and may be renewed. At any time during the
permit period, and upon reasonable request by the city, the person issued a
permit under this section may be required to submit further information or
evidence that the permittee is in compliance with the permit requirements.
      (2)   Golf carts may only be operated from a half-hour before sunrise to
a half-hour after sunset unless equipped with original equipment head lights,
taillights and rear-facing brake lights.
      (3)   The operation of golf carts shall not exceed ten mph within the
city.
      (4)   Golf carts shall display the slow-moving vehicle emblem provided
for in M.S. § 169.522, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (5)   All operator of motorized golf carts must have a valid driver’s
license.
      (6)   All owners/operators of motorized golf carts must obtain and
maintain liability insurance complying with the provisions of M.S. § 65B.48,
Subd. 5 (liability coverage), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (7)   Motorized golf carts shall be equipped with a rearview mirror so
located as to reflect to the driver a view of the roadway for a distance of at
least 200 feet to the rear of the vehicle.
      (8)   Motorized golf carts shall have the permit number designated by the
city displayed in a conspicuous place on the vehicle in three-inch letter and
numbers.
      (9)   Only one rider shall be allowed unless the golf cart is designed
and specifically for two people.
   (D)   Designated roadways.
      (1)   Golf carts shall be allowed to operate on all public roadways and
alleys. While operating on a public roadway or alley, a golf cart must comply
with all state statute traffic regulation.
      (2)   The operation of golf carts is specifically prohibited on public
sidewalks and on the city levee and levee slopes.
   (E)   Application of traffic laws. Every person operating a motorized golf
cart pursuant to this section shall be subject to the state traffic laws,
except when those provisions cannot reasonably be applied to motorized golf
carts.
   (F)   Penalties. Any person violating any provision of this section shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor; except that, failure to obtain a permit shall result
in an administrative penalty only in the form of a fine of $100.
CHAPTER VIII: NUISANCES AND OFFENSES
Section
Part I. Nuisances
   
801.01   Public nuisances defined
   
801.02   Public nuisances affecting health
   
801.03   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
801.04   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
801.05   Noise control
   
801.06   Duties of city officers
   
801.07   Abatement
   
801.08   Recovery of cost
   
801.09   Civil remedies
   
801.10   Penalty
Part II. Offenses
   
802.01   Use of weapons
   
802.02   Curfew
   
802.03   Peddling
   
802.04   Use of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) products
PART I. NUISANCES
§ 801.01 PUBLIC NUISANCES DEFINED.
   Whoever by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty intentionally
does any of the following is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is
a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures or
endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs or renders dangerous for passage, any
public highway or right-of-way or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Is guilty of any other act or omission declared by law or this part to
be public nuisance and for which no sentence is specifically provided.
§ 801.02 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared by law or this part to be nuisances
affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul or
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, industrial, waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of persons having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business, as defined by statute, not licensed
by the city’s Board of Health, as defined by law.
§ 801.03 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   (A)   General. The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public
morals and decency:
      (1)   All gambling devices, slot machines and punch boards, unless
authorized by ordinance or state statues;
      (2)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in such occupations;
      (3)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous
sexual intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
      (4)   All places where intoxicating liquor is manufactured or disposed of
in violating of law or where, in violation of law, persons are permitted to
resort for the purpose of drinking intoxicating liquor; or where intoxicating
liquor is kept for sale or other disposition in violation of law, and all
liquor and other property used for maintaining such a place;
      (5)   Any vehicle used for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other
immoral or illegal purpose; and
      (6)   Any person who shall gamble in any manner or description by
fraudulent devices and practice in gaming, playing cards, dice or other games
of chance on any street, alley, crossing or public grounds within the city.
   (B)   Purposes.
      (1)   It is the purpose and intent of this part to protect the public
health, safety, welfare and morals of the community by preventing persons in
any public or private place from engaging in, or offering or attempting to
engage in:
         (a)   Lewd, lascivious or immoral conduct;
         (b)   The use of slanderous, foul, obscene or indecent language;
         (c)   The indecent or lascivious exposure or use of the human body, or
any part thereof; or
         (d)   Behavior, whether by words or acts, of a nature to corrupt the
public morals or to outrage the sense of public decency.
      (2)   No person, in an adult establishment, shall knowingly or
intentionally engage in sexual intercourse, engage in deviate sexual conduct,
appear in a state of nudity or fondle the genitals of himself or herself or
another person.
      (3)   No person, in any location or place other than an adult
establishment, with the intent to be seen by persons other than invitees and
occupants of that location or place, shall engage in sexual intercourse, engage
in deviate sexual conduct, appear in a state of nudity or fondle the genitals
of himself or herself or another person.
      (4)   For purposes of this section, NUDITY shall mean the showing of the
human male or female genitals, pubic areas or buttocks with less than a fully
opaque covering, the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque
covering of any part of the nipple or the showing of covered male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state.
      (5)   For purposes of this section, ADULT ESTABLISHMENT shall mean an
establishment which provides dancing or other live entertainment, if such
establishment excludes minors by virtue of age (including any business licensed
under the Rochester Code of Ordinances, R.C.O. Ch. 125A) or if such dancing or
other live entertainment is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
the performance, depiction or description of sexual activities or anatomical
areas.
      (6)   Any person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (7)   If any term or provision of this section is declared by a court of
competent jurisdiction to be illegal or in conflict with any law, the validity
of the remaining terms or provisions shall not be affected and the section
shall be construed and enforced as if the section did not contain the
particular term or provision held to be invalid.
§ 801.04 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting peace and safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards or other obstructions which prevent
persons from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles. All
trees or branches of trees which are hazard trees or hazard branches as they
would pose a threat to adjacent persons or property if not removed. All trees
which, due to rot or dilapidation, need to be removed;
   (D)   All unnecessary noises and annoying vibrations;
   (E)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary use by the public
of streets, alleys, sidewalks or public grounds, except under such conditions
as are permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (F)   Radio aerials or television antennas erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (G)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk which
causes large crowds of people to gather, obstructing traffic and the free uses
of the streets or sidewalks;
   (H)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures of streets and
sidewalks, or so situated as to endanger public safety, or not constructed and
maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (I)   The allowing of rain water, ice or snow fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk to flow across any sidewalk;
   (J)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (K)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, so situated or
operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (L)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public property;
   (M)   Accumulations in the open or discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies or other material, in a manner conductive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes or vermin, or the fire, health or safety
hazards from such accumulations or from the fire, health or safety hazards from
such accumulations or from the rank growth of vegetation among the items so
accumulated;
   (N)   Accumulations in the open of junk, disused property, tin, limber,
wire, garbage, containers, bins, brush, branches, tires, rims, parts of motor
vehicles, and motor vehicles in violation of any provision of the city’s code;
building materials where no active construction under permit is occurring and
which have been stored on the property in excess of 30 days; disused furniture,
disused appliances, or any other items in the open which detract from the
property’s appearance or value;
   (O)   Any well, hole or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
such other condition as to constitute a hazard to any child coming on the
premises where it is located;
   (P)   Obstructions to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter or ditch with trash or other materials;
   (Q)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles or other substances which may
injure some person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over
such substance;
   (R)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (S)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone;
   (T)   Any violation of this section shall be deemed a misdemeanor offense
punishable by a fine up to $1,000 and/or incarceration of up to 90 days in
jail, or a combination thereof.
(Ord. 239, passed 6-21-2023)
§ 801.05 NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   Noises prohibited.
      (1)   General prohibition.
         (a)   No person shall make or cause to be made any distinctly and
loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers
the comfort, repose, health, peace safety or welfare of any person or precluded
his or her enjoyment of property or affects his or her property’s value.
         (b)   This general prohibition is not limited by the specific
restriction of the following divisions.
      (2)   Horns, audible signaling devices and the like. No person shall
sound any audible signaling device on any vehicle, except as a warning of
danger.
      (3)   Exhaust. No person shall discharge the exhaust or permit the
discharge of the exhaust of any steam engine, stationary internal combustion
engine, motor boat, motor vehicle or snowmobile, except through a muffler or
other device that effectively prevents loud or explosive noises therefrom and
complies with all applicable state laws and regulations.
      (4)   Defective vehicles or loads. No person shall use any vehicle so out
of repair or so loaded as to create loud unnecessary grating, grinding,
rattling or other noise.
      (5)   Loading, unloading unpacking. No person shall create loud and
excessive noise in loading, unloading or unpacking any vehicle.
      (6)   Radios, phonographs, paging systems and the like. No person shall
use or operate or permit the use or operation of any radio receiving set,
musical instrument, phonograph, paging system machine or other device for the
production or reproduction of sound in a distinct and loudly audible manner so
as to unreasonable disturb the peace, quiet and comfort of any person nearby.
      (7)   Participation in noisy parties or gatherings. No person shall
participate in any party or other gathering of people giving rise to noise,
disturbing the peace, quiet or repose of another person. When a police officer
may order all persons present, other than the owner or tenant of the premises
where the disturbance is occurring, to disperse immediately, no persons shall
refuse to leave after being ordered by a police officer to do so. Every owner
or tenant of such premises who has knowledge of the disturbance shall make
every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance is stopped.
      (8)   Loudspeakers, amplifiers for advertising and the like. No person
shall operate or permit the use or operation of any loudspeaker, sound
amplifier or other device for the production or reproduction of sound on a
street or other public place for the purpose of commercial advertising or
attracting the attention of the public to any commercial establishment or
vehicle without obtaining a permit from the city. The Council shall, from time
to time, by resolution set the minimum standards that must be satisfied before
a permit may be granted under this division (A)(8).
      (9)   Animals. No person shall keep any animal that disturbs the comfort,
repose or person in the vicinity by its frequent or continued noise.
      (10)   Schools, churches, hospitals and the like. No person shall create
any excessive noise on a street, alley or public ground adjacent to any school,
institution of learning, church or hospitals, nursing homes or homes for the
elderly when the noise unreasonable interferes with the working of the
institution or disturbs or unduly annoys its occupants or residents and when
conspicuous signs indicate the presence of such institution.
   (B)   Hourly restriction on certain operations.
      (1)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chains saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment, except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday or between the hours of 9:00
a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on any Sunday or major holiday. Snow removal equipment and
emergency equipment are exempt from this provision.
      (2)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel or
gas powered machine or other power equipment, except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on Monday through Saturday or between the hours of 9:00
a.m. 9:00 p.m. on any Sunday or major holiday. Emergency situations are exempt
from this provision.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Enforcement duties. The city’s Police Department shall enforce the
provisions of this section related to noise and animals. The Police Department
or its members may inspect private premises other than private residences and
shall make all reasonable efforts to prevent violation of this section.
      (2)   Civil remedies. This section may be enforced by injunction, action
for abatement or other appropriate civil remedy.
      (3)   Noise impact statements. The Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation or alteration, or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the Council. It shall evaluate each such statement and take
its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or permit
applies for or the zoning change requested.
      (4)   Criminal penalties. Every person who violates any provision or this
section is guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be subject to a
fine of not more than $1,000 or imprisonment for a term or not to exceed 90
days, or both, plus in either case, the costs of prosecution. Each act or
violation and each day a violation occurs or containers constitutes a separate
offense.
§ 801.06 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   (A)   For purposes of this section and §
801.07, the Police Department, or §§
801.06 and
801.08 or person designated by the City Council, if the city, at the time, has
no Police Department, the city may enforce the provisions relating to
nuisances. Any peace officer or designated person shall have the power to
inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions to prevent the
commission and maintenance of nubile nuisances.
   (B)   Except in emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and
safety, no police officer or designated person shall enter private property for
the purpose of inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission
of the owner, resident or other person in control of the property, unless the
officer or person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of
competent jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
100.06.
§ 801.07 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer or designated person on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in the Hazardous and Substandard Building Act,
being M.S. § 463.17, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in the Hazardous
and Substandard Building Act, being M.S. § 463.17, as it maybe amended from
time to time.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Whenever a peace officer or designated person determines that a
public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the city, the
officer or person designated may notify, in writing, the owner of record or
occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be terminated
or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be taken to abate
the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be abated. If the
notice of violation is not complied with within the time specified, the officer
or designated person shall report that fact forthwith to the City Council.
      (2)   The City Council may, after notice to the owner or occupant and an
opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition identified in the notice
of violation is a nuisance and further order that if the nuisance is not abated
within the time prescribed by the City Council, the city may seek injunctive
relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and notice of motion for
summary enforcement, or by obtaining an administrative search and seizure
warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) above will permit a continuing nuisance to
unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City Council may
order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
      (1)   To proceed with summary enforcement, the officer or designated
person shall determine that a public nuisance exists or is being maintained on
premises in the city and that delay in abatement of the nuisance will
unreasonably endanger public health, safety or welfare. The officer or
designated person shall notify, in writing, the occupant or owner of the
premises of the nature of the nuisance and of the city’s intention to seek
summary enforcement, and the time and place of the City Council meeting to
consider the question of summary enforcement.
      (2)   The City Council shall determine whether or not the condition
identified in the notice to the owner or occupant is a nuisance, whether public
health, safety or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in abatement
required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A) above and may
order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the nuisance is
not immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order summary
enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
§ 801.08 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability.
      (1)   The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been abated by the
city or a person who has caused a public nuisance on a property not owned by
that person shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the
abatement, including administrative costs.
      (2)   As soon as the work has been completed and the cost determined, the
City Clerk or other official shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to
the owner. Thereupon the amount shall be immediately due and payable at the
office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk shall,
on or before September 1 next following abatement of the nuisance, list the
total unpaid charges along with all other charges, as well as other charges for
current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from
time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges against the property
under that statute and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County
Auditor and collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments, not exceeding ten, as the City Council may determine in each
case.
§ 801.09 CIVIL REMEDIES.
   This part may be enforced by injunction, action for abatement or other
appropriate civil remedy.
§ 801.10 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any provisions of this part is guilty of a
misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000, or
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, plus the costs or prosecution
in either case. Each act of violation and each day a violation occurs or
continues constitute as separate offense.
PART II. OFFENSES
§ 802.01 USE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   Restrictions. No person, except a police officer in the performance of
duty, shall, within the city, discharge any gun, pistol or firearm of any
description or carry any such weapon unless it is dismounted or broken apart or
carried in a case in such manner that it cannot be discharged with the
exception of the conditions listed in division (E) below. This division (A)
does not prevent to carrying of a handgun with in the city under a permit
subject to the restrictions imposed by law.
   (B)   Air rifles, sling shots. No person shall use or discharge any air
rifle or sling shot or B.B. gun within the city.
   (C)   Throwing stars, chain clubs and pipe clubs. It shall be unlawful for
any person to have in his or her possession or premises “throwing stars” and
various other dangerous weapons such as chain clubs, pipe clubs and the like.
   (D)   Offense by parents, guardians. It is unlawful for any parent or
guardian of any person under the age of 18 years knowingly to permit such
person to violate any provision of this section.
   (E)   Sports clubs. Shooting and the use of firearms shall be allowed on
property currently owned by the Henderson Sportsmen’s Club located adjacent to
Fort Road in Brown’s Addition in the city by members of said club or during
club sponsored events; for gun training purposes in the presence of a licensed
“firearm safety instructor” on the Sportsmen’s Club site or by a special permit
granted by the city’s Police Chief and/or the City Council; provided, the
following rules are adhered to.
      (1)   No shooting before 12:00 p.m. and one-half hour after sunset, but
in no case later than 8:00 p.m. daily.
      (2)   Shooting on Sportsmen’s Club Range shall be limited to members and
guests accompanied by members (for enforcement purposes membership shall mean
the membership list in possession of the city’s Police Chief labeled “Active
Membership List of the Henderson, Minnesota Sportsmen’s Club”), for firearms
safety training or Police Chief/City Council permitted uses.
      (3)   Shooting rules on range shall be posted and all members, guests or
other users must be instructed and advised of said rules and local ordinances
prior the discharge of firearms.
      (4)   Range shooting is limited to rifle/pistol range for these firearms
and to the trap range for shotguns.
      (5)   No shooting at the club on Sunday and Monday of Memorial Day
weekend as nationally observed.
§ 802.02 CURFEW.
   (A)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any minor
under the age of 16 years to loiter, idle, or be in or upon the public streets,
parks, playgrounds or other public grounds, public places and public buildings
or places of amusement, entertainment or refreshment, vacant lots or other
unsupervised places, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. preceding a
curricular school day, and between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. on all
other nights or days; provided that, the provisions of this division (A) shall
not apply to any minor when in the company of his or her parent, guardian or
other adult person having for the time being the care and custody of such
minor, or where such minor is upon some necessary business or errand by
permission or direction of his or her parent, guardian or other adult person
that is for the time being the care and custody of such minor.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for any minor 16
years of age or older and under the age of 18 years to loiter, idle or be in or
upon the public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other
public grounds, public places and public buildings or places of amusement,
entertainment or refreshment, vacant lots or other unsupervised places, between
the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. preceding a curricular school day, and
12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. on all other nights or days; provided that, the
provisions of this division (B) shall not apply to any minor when in the
company of his or her parent, guardian or other adult person having for the
time being the care and custody of such minor, or where such minor is upon some
necessary business or errand by permission or direction of his or her parent,
guardian or other adult person having for the time being the care and custody
of such minor.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful for the parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of a minor under the
age of 18 years to permit such minor to loiter, idle or be in or upon the
public streets, highways, roads, alleys, parks, playgrounds or other public
grounds, public places and public building, or places of amusement,
entertainment or refreshment, vacant lots or other unsupervised places during
the times prohibited by this section; provided that, the provisions of this
section shall not apply when the minor is accompanied by his or her parent,
guardian or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor or when
the minor is upon some necessary business or errand by permission or direction
of his or her parent of guardian or other adult person having for the time
being the care and custody of such minor.
   (D)   (1)   The Mayor or Chief of Police, upon the request of the
Superintendent of Schools or other responsible individual or group in the city,
may designate certain nights as “school nights” or “youth nights” at such times
as the school or other responsible individual or group shall sponsor or be
engaged in athletic, musical, dramatic or social activities for the benefit or
entertainment of those minors contemplated by this section. The provisions of
the foregoing divisions (A) through (C) shall not apply where any minor
contemplated by this section is lawfully going to, attending or returning from
such function on any designated “school night” or “youth night”.
      (2)   Any parent or guardian of a child mentioned in division (D)(1)
above who is prohibited from loitering or wandering as in said section
provided, who allows or permits his or her child or ward to loiter or wander
contrary to the provisions of this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   It shall be the duty of the city police officer in case he or she
finds a child loitering or wandering contrary to the provisions of this
section, to make an attempt to contact the parents or guardians of such child
and, if said parent or guardian cannot be reached, then the police officer
shall transport the child to the nearest available juvenile detention
facilities for processing. Said child shall then be treated in accordance with
the juvenile system as provided by the laws of the state.
§ 802.03 PEDDLING.
   (A)   Prohibition. The practice of going in and upon private property and
residences in the city by solicitors, peddlers, hawkers, itinerant merchants
and transient vendors of merchandise, not having been requested or invited to
do so by the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of said private residences,
for the purpose of disposing of and/or peddling or hawking the same, is hereby
declared to be a nuisance and punishable as such nuisance as a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Police duties. The Police Chief and police force of the city are
hereby required and directed to suppress the same and to abate any such
nuisance as is described in division (A) above.
§ 802.04 USE OF TETRAHYDROCANNABINOL (THC) PRODUCTS.
   (A)   There shall be no public consumption of cannabinoids, cannabinoid
products, products having a cannabinoid profile, products having a cannabis
concentrate, intoxicating cannabinoids, lower- potency hemp derived edibles,
synthetic cannabinoids, or tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) products, as those
products are defined in M.S. § 342.01, as amended from time to time, in the
city of Henderson at the following locations:
      (1)   Any city owned or city leased property including the grounds,
parking lot, or structures thereon;
      (2)   City Hall;
      (3)   City's Public Works building;
      (4)   Fire Hall;
      (5)   Police Station;
      (6)   Any park;
      (7)   Any beach;
      (8)   Any public trail;
      (9)   Any playground;
      (10)   Any ballfield;
      (11)   Any concession stand;
      (12)   School grounds;
      (13)   Library grounds;
      (14)   Any sidewalk;
      (15)   Any parking lot;
      (16)   Any cemetery;
      (17)   Any festival or farmers market;
      (18)   Any street or sidewalk;
      (19)   Any other place where the public is invited to gather;
      (20)   Any public place where children could be exposed to second hand
THC smoke; and
      (21)   Any location covered by the Minnesota Clean Indoor Air Act, the
Freedom to Breathe Act, or any amendments to the same.
   (B)   Penalty. A violation of this section shall be a petty misdemeanor,
punishable by a fine of $290.
(Ord. 240, passed 11-15-2023)
CHAPTER IX: ZONING
Section
Part I: Purpose and Definitions
   
901.01   Purposes
   
901.02   Definitions as used in this chapter
   
901.03   Establishment of districts, jurisdiction, annexed land and official
map
   
901.04   Prohibitions in districts
   
901.05   Heritage preservation sites
Part II. Regulations
   
902.01   Regulations for Residential District I
   
902.02   Regulations for Residential District II
   
902.03   Regulations for Residential District III
   
902.04   Regulations for Commercial District I
   
902.05   Regulations for the Commercial District II
   
902.06   Regulations for Agricultural District (A-1)
   
902.07   Solar energy and solar structures
Part III. General Provisions and Exceptions
   
903.01   Interpretations
   
903.02   Off-street parking and loading space
   
903.03   Conditional use permits
   
903.04   Non-conforming uses
   
903.05   Board of Adjustments
   
903.06   Group housing projects
   
903.07   Certificate of occupancy
Part IV. Amendments and Petitions
   
904.01   Amendment
   
904.02   Petition for amendment and adjustments - fees
Part V. Administration and Enforcement
   
905.01   Administration and enforcement
   
905.02   City Council
   
905.03   Building Inspector
   
905.04   Use permit
Part VI. Penalties
   
906.01   Penalty
Part VII. Validity of Chapter
   
907.01   Validity of chapter
Part VIII. Floods - Standards and Conditions
   
908.01   Statutory authorization; findings of fact and purpose
   
908.02   General provisions
   
908.03   Establishment of zoning districts
   
908.04   Floodway District (FW)
   
908.05   Flood Fringe District (FF)
   
908.06   General Floodplain District
   
908.07   Subdivisions
   
908.08   Public utilities, railroads, roads and bridges
   
908.09   Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks; placement of travel
trailers and travel vehicles
   
908.10   Administration
   
908.11   Non-conforming uses
   
908.12   Penalties for violation
   
908.13   Amendments
Part IX. Subdivisions
   
909.01   Title
   
909.02   Intent and purpose
   
909.03   Rules and definitions
   
909.04   Scope
   
909.05   Administration of this part
   
909.06   Data for preliminary and final plats
   
909.07   Subdivision design standards
   
909.08   Required improvements
   
909.09   Payment for installation of improvements
   
909.10   Other provisions
   
909.11   Enforcement
   
909.12   Miscellaneous
PART I: PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
§ 901.01 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are to promote the health, safety, order,
convenience and general welfare of the city and to aid in carrying out the
comprehensive plan for the community.
§ 901.02 DEFINITIONS AS USED IN THIS CHAPTER.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A subordinate use or structure on the same lot
with and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal
use or structure.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms which is designed for, intended for or
occupied by one family and equipped with cooking facilities.
   BLOCK. Property abutting on one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting or intercepting streets or unplatted acreage.
   BOARDING AND LODGING HOUSES. A building or a portion thereof where lodging
is offered for compensation in one or more sleeping rooms. This specifically
includes ‘’bed and breakfast’‘ establishments.
   BUILDING, MAIN. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot upon which it is situated.
   COURT. An open, unoccupied space bound on two or more sides by the exterior
walls of a building or buildings on the same lot.
   DWELLING. A building used exclusively for occupancy by one family.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building used exclusively for occupancy by one
family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building used exclusively for occupancy by two
families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof used for occupancy by
three or more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING UNIT. A dwelling or portion of a dwelling or of an apartment hotel
used by one family for cooking, living and sleeping.
   FAMILY. One or more persons occupying a premises and living as a single,
non-profit housekeeping unit, as distinguished from a group occupying a hotel,
club, fraternity or sorority house. A FAMILY includes necessary servants.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building for the storage of self-propelled
vehicles only.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any premises, except those herein defined as a private
garage, used for the storage or care of self-propelled vehicles or where any
such vehicles are equipped for operation or repair, or kept for remuneration,
hire or sale.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance from the average level of the
highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the deck line of mansard roofs;
and to the mean height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel
roofs.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any use customarily conducted entirely within a dwelling by
the occupants only, which use is clearly incidental and secondary to the use of
the dwelling for dwelling purposes and does not change the character thereof.
Clinics, hospital, barber shops, beauty parlors and animal hospitals are not
HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   HOTEL. Any building or portion thereof where lodging is offered to transient
guests for compensation and in which there are more that five sleeping rooms
with no cooking facilities in an individual room or apartment.
   JUNK YARD. Land or building used for the storage or keeping of junk,
including scrap metals, or for the dismantling or “wrecking” of automobiles or
other vehicles or machinery, other than the storage of materials which is
incidental or accessory to any business or industrial use on the same lot.
   LOT. Land occupied by a building and its accessory buildings, together with
such open spaces as are required under the provisions of this chapter, having
not less than the minimum are required by this chapter for a building frontage
on a street.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the intercession of two or more streets, or
bounded on two or more adjacent sides by street lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT, KEY. The first lot to the rear of a corner lot, the front line of which
is continuation of the side line of the corner lot, exclusive of the width of
any alley, and fronting on the street on which the corner lot fronts.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which
in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or
more in length or, when erected on site, is 230 or more square feet, and which
is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems
contained therein.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which two
or more occupied manufactured homes are located, either free of charge or for
compensation, and includes any building, structure, tent vehicle and enclosure
used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the manufactured home
park. The park must be owned by a person, firm or corporation and duly licensed
by the state’s Department of Health in accordance with state law.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use lawfully in existence on the effective date of
this chapter and not conforming to the regulations for the district in which it
is situated; except that, such a use is not non-conforming if it would be
authorized under special use permit where located.
   RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE. Any of the following:
      (1)   CAMPING TRAILER. A folding structure, mounted on wheel sand
designed for travel, recreation, and vacation use.
      (2)   MOTOR HOME. A portable temporary dwelling to be used for travel,
recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled
vehicle.
      (3)   PICK-UP COACH. A structure designed to be mounded on a truck
chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
      (4)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a chassis,
designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and
vacation uses, permanently identified as a ‘’travel trailer’‘ by the
manufacturer.
   RECREATIONAL CAMPING AREA. Any area, whether privately or publicly owned,
used on a daily, nightly, weekly or longer basis for trailers, pick-up coaches,
motor homes or camping trailers and whether use of such accommodation is
granted free of charge or for compensation; provided that, nothing in this
definition shall be constructed to include children’s camps, industrial camps,
migrant labor camps, as defined in state statutes and State Board of Health
regulations and also shall not include United States Forest Service Camps,
state forest service camps, state wildlife management areas of state-owned
private access areas which are restricted to use to picnicking the boat
landing.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the next floor and the ceiling next above it.
   STORY, HALF. The portion of a building under a gable, hip gambrel roof the
wall plates of which, on at least two opposite exterior walls, are not more
that two feet above the floor of such story.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, thus use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any permanent or semi-permanent structure built either into
the ground or on its surface for the purpose of containing a large amount of
water to be used for recreational wading or swimming. It does not mean a
collapsible wading pool intended of use by small children.
   USE. The purpose for which land or premises or a building thereon is
designed, arranged or intended of for which it is or may be occupied or
maintained.
   USE, ACCESSORY. A use incidental and accessory to the principal use of a lot
or a building located on the same lot as the necessary use.
   YARD. An open space other than a court on the same lot with a building,
which open space is unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward, except
as otherwise provided in Part VIII of this chapter. In measuring a YARD, the
line of a building means a line parallel to the nearest lot line drawn through
the point of a building or the point of a dwelling group nearest to such lot
line, exclusive of the respective architectural features enumerated in Part
VIII of this chapter as not to be considered in measuring yard dimensions or as
being permitted to extend into any front, side or rear yard, respectively; and
the measurement shall be taken from the line of the building to the nearest lot
line.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of the lot between the inner
side yard lines and lying between the front line of the lot and the nearest
line of the building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot and lying
between the rear line of the lot and the nearest line of the building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the side line of the lot and the nearest line of
the building and extending from the front line of the lot to the rear yard.
§ 901.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS, JURISDICTION, ANNEXED LAND AND OFFICIAL
MAP.
   (A)   Regulations. The regulations herein governing the location, height,
width, bulk, type of foundation, number of stories, size of buildings and other
structures, the percentage of lot which may be occupied, the size of yards and
other open spaces, the density and distribution of population, the uses of
building and structures for trade, industry, residence, recreation,
agriculture, forestry, soil conservation, water supply conservation,
conservation of shorelands, access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems,
flood control or other purposes shall apply within the corporate limits of the
city and within the zoning jurisdiction as established by M.S. § 462.351, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Annexed land. Any land annexed to the city in the future shall be
classified as to its district by the Planning Commission within 30 days of
annexation.
   (C)   Zoning map.
      (1)   The attached zoning map entitled ‘’Official Zoning Map’‘, together
with all material attached thereto is hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this chapter, replacing the former official zoning map. The
official zoning map shall be on file in the office of the Zoning Administrator
and County Auditor.
      (2)   Lots 1-2, Block 104, currently zoned Residential District II (R-2)
shall be rezoned to Commercial District II (C-2).
§ 901.04 PROHIBITIONS IN DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
903.03 of this chapter, each district’s land and structures shall be used only
for purposes listed by this chapter as permitted in the district. In each
district, every building hereafter erected or structurally altered shall be
provided with the yards specified, shall be on a lot of the area and width
specified and shall not exceed the height specified in this ordinance for the
district. No open space or lot required for a building shall during existence
be occupied by or counted as open space for another building.
   (B)   The design, construction and materials used hereafter in each district
must not be so inconsistent with the surrounding buildings and areas as to
devalue property or constitute blight.
§ 901.05 HERITAGE PRESERVATION SITES.
   (A)   Heritage preservation sites may be designated and protected by the
city pursuant to the procedures set out in
Ch. XIII of this city code and the procedures and authority outlined therein
are incorporated into this zoning code by reference.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall, however, be construed to alter the
procedure or authority provided in Ch. XVI of this code of ordinances or to
otherwise modify the jurisdiction of the Heritage Preservation Commission over
such issues.
PART II. REGULATIONS
§ 902.01 REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT I.
   (A)   Permitted use. In R-1, unless otherwise provided in this chapter, no
building or land shall be used and no building shall hereafter be erected or
structurally altered, except for one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   One- or two-family dwellings and their accessory buildings,
apartments, flats and manufactured homes;
      (2)   Plant nurseries or greenhouses; farms or truck gardens, but no
retail stand for the display or sale of agricultural products or any other
commercial structure shall be located thereon without a conditional use permit;
      (3)   Public parks and playgrounds. golf courses or clubs;
      (4)   Churches, libraries, museums, schools, memorial buildings,
including name plates and bulletin boards placed in back of the prescribed
setback lines;
      (5)   Boarding and lodging houses; and
      (6)   The following uses, but only upon securing of a conditional use
permit as provided in §
902.03 of this chapter:
         (a)   Hospitals, clinics and other buildings used for the treatment of
human ailments;
         (b)   Automobile courts;
         (c)   Philanthropic and charitable institutions;
         (d)   Home which are transportable structures and designed to be used
as a dwelling, but do not meet the standards of a manufactured home in some
way;
         (e)   Manufactured home parks; and
         (f)   Hotels, when located within 500 feet of the central business
districts: or when located on a lot facing a public park, playground, school
ground or other public institution: college, church or other semi-public
institution; but no business shall be conducted therein unless it is incidental
and only for guests and can be entered only from the inside of the building.
   (B)   Height regulations. No building in the R-1 District shall hereafter be
erected or structurally altered to exceed 35 feet or two and one-half stories
in height.
   (C)   Building site regulations. In the R-1, every building designed for the
housing of one or two families, together with its accessory buildings, shall be
located on a building site in one ownership having an area of not less than
7,000 square feet. Every building designed for more that two families shall be
located on a building site in one ownership having not less than 3,500 square
feet per family; except that, the following parcels may be used as building
sites for dwellings if all other regulations for the district required by this
chapter are complied with: any parcel under one ownership at the time of
adoption of this chapter when the owner thereof owns no adjoining land.
   (D)   Front yard requirements. Each lot in the R-1 District shall have a
front yard of not less than 25 feet.
   (E)   Side yard requirements. Each lot in the R-1 District shall have two
side yards, one on each side of the building, for every dwelling hereafter
erected or structurally altered which does not exceed one and one-half stories,
each side yard shall have a width of not less than five feet. For every such
dwelling that has two stories, each side yard shall have a width of not less
than eight feet. For every dwelling of two and one-half stories each side yard
shall have a width of at least ten feet. The foregoing requirements for side
yards shall be subject to the following modifications.
      (1)   The width of each side yard may be reduced to 10% of the width of
any side yard be less than four feet:
         (a)   Any parcel of an average width of less than 40 feet which parcel
was under one ownership at the time of the adoption of this chapter when the
owner owns no adjoining land; and
         (b)   Any parcel that includes not less than one entire lot as shown
on any subdivision plat recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of this
county, before adoption of this chapter.
      (2)   On a corner lot adjacent to a key lot, the side yard on the street
side of such corner lot shall have width in addition to the here in before
specified so that the total width of such side yard shall be equal to not less
than 500% of the front yard depth required for the lots to the rear of such
corner lot, to a maximum width required of 12 feet for such side yards; but
this regulation shall not be so applied as to reduce the buildable width after
providing the required interior side yard of any such corner lot to less than
20 feet.
      (3)   In case a dwelling is located on a lot that its front or rear faces
any side lot line, the dwelling shall be not less than 25 feet from the lot
line.
      (4)   A church, library, museum, school or memorial building shall have a
side yard of 25 feet on each side adjoining a dwelling or vacant lot.
   (F)   Rear yard requirements. Each lot in the R-1 District shall have a rear
yard of a depth equal to 20% of the depth of the lot to a maximum required
depth of 25 feet for such yard (15 feet used if no alley/right-of-way access).
§ 902.02 REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT II.
   (A)   Permitted use. In Residential District II, unless otherwise provided
in this chapter, no building or land shall be used and no building shall
hereafter be erected or structurally altered, except for one or more of the
following uses:
      (1)   One- or two-family dwellings and their accessory buildings;
      (2)   One-family manufactured homes built in conformance with M.S. §§
327.31 to 327.35, as they may be amended from time to time; providing, the
following design standards are met to assure a favorable comparison with site-
built housing and to uphold public health and safety: roofs must have at least
a 3/12 pitch and be covered with shingles or tile and have eaves of not less
than six inches;
      (3)   Plant nurseries or greenhouses: farms or truck gardens, but no
retail stand for the display or sale of agricultural products or any commercial
structure shall be located thereon without a conditional use;
      (4)   Public parks and playgrounds, golf courses or clubs;
      (5)   Churches, libraries, museums, schools, memorial buildings,
including name plates and bulletin boards placed in back of the prescribed
setback lines;
      (6)   Boarding and lodging houses; and
      (7)   The following uses, but only up on securing of a conditional use
permit as provided in §
903.03 of this chapter:
         (a)   Hospitals, clinics and other buildings used for the treatment of
human ailments;
         (b)   Automobile courts;
         (c)   Philanthropic and charitable institutions;
         (d)   Homes which are transportable structures and designed to be used
a dwelling, but do not meet the standards of a manufactured home in some way;
         (e)   Manufactured home parks;
         (f)   Hotels, when located within 500 feet of the Central Business
Districts; or when located on a lot facing on public park, playground, school
ground or other public institution; college, church or other semi-public
institution, but no business shall be conducted therein unless it is incidental
and only for guests and can be entered only from the inside of the building;
and
         (g)   Apartment buildings and flats.
   (B)   Height regulations. No building in the R-2 District shall hereafter be
erected or structurally altered to exceed 35 feet or two and one-half stories
in height.
   (C)   Building site regulations. In the R-2 District, every building
designed for the housing of one or two families, together with its accessory
buildings, shall be located on a building site in one ownership having an area
of not less than 7,000 square feet. Every building designed for more than two
families shall be located on a building site in one ownership having not less
than 3,500 square feet per family; except that, the following parcels may be
used required by this chapter are compiled with: any parcel under one ownership
at the time of adoption of this chapter when the owner thereof owns no
adjoining land.
   (D)   Front yard requirements. Each lot in the R-2 District shall have a
front yard not less than 25 feet.
   (E)   Side yard requirements. Each lot in the R-2 District shall have two
side yards, one on each side of the building. For every dwelling hereafter
erected or structurally altered which does not exceed one and a half stories,
each side yard shall have a width of not less than five feet. For every such
dwelling which has two stories, each side yard shall have a width of not less
than eight feet. For every dwelling of two and half stories, each side yard
shall have a width of at least ten feet. The foregoing requirements for side
yards shall be subject to the following modifications.
      (1)   The width of each side yard may be reduced to 10% of the width of
any side yard be less than four feet:
         (a)   Any parcel of an average width of less than 40 feet which parcel
was under one ownership at the time of the adoption of his ordinance when the
owner no adjoining land; and
         (b)   Any parcel that includes not less than one entire lot as shown
on any subdivision plat recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the
county, before the adoption of this chapter.
      (2)   On a corner lot adjacent to a key lot, the side yard on the street
side of such corner lot shall have a width in addition to that here in before
specified so that the total width of such side yard shall be equal to not less
than 500% of the front yard depth required for the lots to the rear of such
corner lot, to a maximum width required of 12 feet for such side yards, but
this regulation shall not be so applied as to reduce the buildable width after
providing the required interior side yard of any such corner lot to less than
20 feet.
      (3)   In case a dwelling is located on a lot that its front or rear faces
any side lot line, the dwelling shall be not less than 25 feet from the lot
line.
      (4)   A church, library, museum, school or memorial building shall have a
side yard of 25 feet on each side adjoining a dwelling or vacant land.
   (F)   Rear yard requirements. Each lot in the R-2 District shall have a rear
yard of a depth equal to 20% of the depth of the lot to a maximum required
depth of 25 feet for such yard (15 feet used if no alley/right-of-way access).
   (G)   Foundations, placement or site and size regulations. Every building
designed for the housing of one or two families shall be on a permanent
concrete or treated wood foundations with a basement that will anchor the
structure. The largest dimension of the home will be placed within the
narrowest dimension of the lot. No such home shall have a width of less than 20
feet in the main body of the home or a ground floor space of less than 800
square feet.
§ 902.03 REGULATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT III.
   (A)   Permitted use. In Residential District III, unless otherwise provided
in this chapter, no building or land shall be used and no building shall
hereafter be erected or structurally altered, except for one or more of the
following uses:
      (1)   One- or two-family dwellings and their accessory buildings;
      (2)   Plant nurseries or greenhouses; farms or truck gardens, but not
retail stand for the display or sale of agricultural products or any other
commercial structure shall be located thereon without a conditional use;
      (3)   Public parks and playgrounds, golf courses or clubs;
      (4)   Churches, libraries, museums, schools, memorial buildings,
including name plates and bulletin boards placed in back of the prescribed
setback lines;
      (5)   Boarding and lodging houses; and
      (6)   The following uses, but only upon securing of a conditional use
permit as provided in §
903.03 of this chapter:
         (a)   Hospitals, clinics and other buildings used for the treatment of
human ailments;
         (b)   Automobile courts;
         (c)   Philanthropic and charitable institutions;
         (d)   One family manufactured homes built in conformance with M.S. §§
327.31 to 327.35, as they may be amended from time to time, providing the
following design standards are met to assure a favorable comparison with site-
built housing and to up hold public health and safety: roofs must have at least
a 3/12 pitch and be covered with shingles or tile and have eaves of not less
than six inches;
         (e)   Hotels, when located with in 500 feet of the central business
districts; or when located on a lot facing on public park, playground, school
ground or other public institution; college, church, or other semi-public
institution, but no business shall be conducted therein unless it incidental
and only for guests and can be entered only from the inside of the building;
and
         (f)   Apartment buildings and flats.
   (B)   Height regulations. In the R-3 District, every building designed for
the housing shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered to exceed 35
feet or one and one-half stories in height.
   (C)   Building site regulations. In the R-3 District, every building
designed for the housing of one or two families, together with its accessory
buildings, shall be located on a building site in one ownership having an area
of not less than 7,000 square feet. Every building designed for more than two
families shall be located on a building site in one ownership having not less
than 3,500 square feet per family; except that, the following parcels may be
used as building sites for dwellings if all other regulations for the district
required by this chapter are complied with: any parcel under one ownership at
the time of adoption of this chapter when the owner thereof owns no adjoining
land.
   (D)   Front yard requirements. Each lot in the R-3 District shall have a
front yard of not less than 25 feet.
   (E)   Side yard requirements. Each lot in the R-3 District shall have two
side yards, one on each side of the building. For every dwelling hereafter
erected or structurally altered which does not exceed one and one-half stories,
each side yard shall have a width of not less than five feet. For every such
dwelling which has two stories, each side yard shall have a width of not less
than eight feet. For every dwelling of two and one-half stories, each side yard
shall have a width of at least ten feet. The foregoing requirements for side
yards shall be subject to the following modifications.
      (1)   The width of each side yard may be reduced to 10% of the width of
any side yard be less than four feet:
         (a)   Any parcel of an average width of less than 40 feet which parcel
was under one ownership at the time of the adoption of this chapter when the
owner owns no adjoining land; and
         (b)   Any parcel that includes not less than one entire lot as shown
on any subdivision plat recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of the
county, before the adoption of this chapter.
      (2)   On a corner lot adjacent to a key lot, the side yard on the street
side of such corner lot shall have a width in addition to that here in before
specified so that the total width of such side yard shall be equal to not less
than 500% of the front yard depth required for the lots to the rear of such
corner lot, to a maximum width required of 12 feet for such side yards; but
this regulation shall not be so applied as to reduce the buildable width after
providing the required interior side yard of any such corner lot to less than
20 feet.
      (3)   In case a dwelling is located on a lot that its front or rear faces
any side lot line, the dwelling shall be not less than 25 feet from the lot
line for dwelling purposes and does not change the character thereof. Clinic,
hospitals, barber shops, beauty parlors and animal hospitals are not home
occupations.
      (4)   A church, library, museum, school or memorial building shall have a
side yard of 25 feet on each side adjoining a dwelling or vacant lot.
   (F)   Rear yard requirements. Each lot in the R-3 District shall have a rear
yard of a depth equal to 20% of the depth of the lot to a maximum required
depth of 25 feet for such yard (15 feet used if no alley/right-of-way access).
   (G)   Foundations, placement or site and size regulations. Every building
designed for the housing of one or two families shall be on a permanent
concrete or treated wood foundation with a basement that will anchor the
structure. The largest dimension of the home will be placed within the
narrowest dimension of the lot. No such home shall have a width of less than 20
feet in the main body of the home or a ground floor space of less than 900
square feet.
§ 902.04 REGULATIONS FOR COMMERCIAL DISTRICT I.
   (A)   Permitted uses. In this district, unless otherwise provided in this
chapter, no building or land shall be used and no building shall be erected or
structurally altered, except for one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Retail stores and shops, restaurants and clubs. At retail business,
shops, restaurants, and clubs, the sale of lower-potency hemp edible and/or
beverage sales shall be a permitted use when sold as an accessory to retail
sales as they are defined in M.S. § 342.01;
      (2)   Automobile stations for the sale of gasoline, oil and accessories
public garages and automobile courts;
      (3)   Theater, financial institutions, telephone and telegraph offices,
messenger offices and professional offices;
      (4)   Carpenter, furniture repairing or upholstery shops, book binding
shops, dressmaking shops, shoe repairing or dyeing shops, newspaper or job
printing establishments, electrical, tin-smithing, plumbing, water, gas- or
steam-fitting ships, paint or paper hanging shops;
      (5)   Self-service laundries;
      (6)   Other business uses which, in the opinion of the Planning
Commission and the City Council, are of the same general character as the uses
enumerated in this section and will not be obnoxious or detrimental to the
district in which located; and/or
      (7)   The following uses, but only upon the securing of a conditional use
permit as provided in §
903.03 of this chapter:
         (a)   Undertaking establishments;
         (b)   Any drive-in business where people are served in automobiles;
and
         (c)   Outdoor advertising signs and structures.
   (B)   Height regulations. In the C-1 District, no building shall be erected
or structurally altered to exceed 60 feet in height.
   (C)   Side yard requirements. In the C-1 District, no side yard shall be
required, except as follows.
      (1)   On a corner lot adjacent to a key lot in the residential district,
there shall be a side yard adjacent to the street of a width equal to not less
than one-half the depth required for front yards on the lots to the rear of
such corner lots.
      (2)   Along that side of every lot in the C-1 District bordering upon
property in the residential districts, there shall be a side yard of a width
not less than the width of a side yard required in the residential districts.
   (D)   Rear yard requirements. In the C-1 District, no rear yard shall be
required, except as follows.
      (1)   Buildings currently used for dwelling purposes shall comply with
the rear yard regulations of the residential districts.
      (2)   On every lot in the C-1 District, the rear of which borders on
property in the residential districts, there shall be a rear yard of a depth
equal to not less than twice the width of a side yard required in the
residential districts.
(Ord. 245, passed 10-23-2024)
§ 902.05 REGULATIONS FOR THE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT II.
   (A)   Permitted uses. In this commercial district, unless otherwise provided
in this chapter, no building or land shall be used and no building shall be
erected or structurally altered, except for one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Retail stores and shops, restaurants and clubs. At retail business,
shops, restaurants, and clubs, the sale of lower-potency hemp edible and/or
beverage sales shall be a permitted use when sold as an accessory to retail
sales as they are defined in M.S. § 342.01;
      (2)   Automobile stations for the sale of gasoline, oil and accessories,
public garages;
      (3)   Theater, financial institutions, telephone and telegraph offices,
messenger offices and professional offices;
      (4)   Carpenter, furniture repairing or upholstery shops, book binding
shops, dressmaking shops, shoe repairing or dyeing shops, newspapers or job
printing establishments, electrical tin-smithing, plumbing, water, gas or steam
fitting shops, paint or paper hanging shops;
      (5)   Self-service laundries;
      (6)   Other business uses which, in the opinion of the Planning
Commission and the City Council, are of the same general character as the uses
enumerated in this section and will not be obnoxious or detrimental to the
district in which located;
      (7)   All uses permitted without securing a conditional use permit in
Residential District I; and
      (8)   The following uses, but only upon the securing of a conditional use
permit as provided in §
903.03 of this chapter.
         (a)   Undertaking establishments;
         (b)   Any drive-in business where people are served in automobiles;
         (c)   Outdoor advertising signs and structures; and
         (d)   All uses listed under § 902.09(F) of this chapter for
Residential District I.
   (B)   Height regulations. In the C-2 District, no building shall be erected
or structurally altered to exceed 60 feet in height.
   (C)   Side yard requirements. In the C-2 District, no side yard shall be
required, except as follows.
      (1)   On a corner lot adjacent to a key lot in the residential district,
there shall be a side yard adjacent to the street of a width equal to not less
than one-half the depth required for front yards on the lots to the rear of
such corner lots.
      (2)   Along that side of every lot in the C-2 District bordering upon
property in the residential districts, there shall be a side yard of a width
not less than the width of a side yard required in the residential districts.
   (D)   Rear yard requirements. In the C-2 District, no rear yard shall be
required, except as follows.
      (1)   Buildings currently use for dwelling purposes shall comply with the
rear yard regulations of the residential districts.
      (2)   On every lot in the commercial district the rear of which borders
on property in the residential districts, there shall be a rear yard of a depth
equal to not less than twice the width of a side yard required in the
residential districts.
(Ord. 246, passed 10-23-2024)
§ 902.06 REGULATIONS FOR AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (A-1).
   (A)   Permitted uses. In the agricultural district, unless otherwise
provided in this chapter, no building or land shall be used and no building
shall hereafter be erected or structurally altered, except for one or more of
the following uses:
      (1)   All uses permitted without a conditional use permit in the
residential districts;
      (2)   Agriculture, farming and truck gardening; provided that, no
agricultural building or accessory feed lot shall be located within 100 feet of
any lot line abutting residential property;
      (3)   Water supply facilities and cemeteries; and/or
      (4)   The following uses, but only upon securing of a conditional use
permit as provided in §
903.03 of this chapter:
         (a)   Commercial livestock and poultry feeding operations; provided,
they comply with the state minimum standards as per M.S. Ch. 115 and 116, as
they may be amended from time to time, and Laws of 1969, Ch. 847, 931 and 1046;
         (b)   Mineral stone or gravel excavation or extraction;
         (c)   Golf clubhouses, country clubs and public swimming pools;
provided that, no principal structure shall be located within 40 feet of any
lot in a residential district;
         (d)   Manufactured home parks; and
         (e)   Cannabinoid and/or hemp-derived product manufacture or retail
sale as defined in M.S. § 342.01, and so long as said industry complies with
Henderson City Code Ch. XVI pertaining to licensing and establishing of said
industry.
   (B)   Height regulations. In the A-1 District, the following shall apply:
      (1)   Agricultural buildings: no restrictions; and
      (2)   All other buildings hereafter erected or altered in the
agricultural district shall not exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet in
height.
   (C)   Side yard requirements. In the agricultural district, there shall be a
side yard on each side of a building, having a width of not less than ten feet.
   (D)   Rear yard requirements. There shall be a rear yard having a depth of
not less than 25% of the depth of the lot.
   (E)   Lot width and depth requirements. Every lot or plot of land in the
agricultural district on which a single-family dwelling is hereafter erected
shall have a minimum width lot of not less than 300 feet and a depth of not
less than 300 feet.
(Ord. 247, passed 10-23-2024)
§ 902.07 SOLAR ENERGY AND SOLAR STRUCTURES.
   (A)   General practices. The general purposes of this chapter are to protect
access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems and to permit use of solar
energy systems to help offset the projected scarcity and high cost of
conventional fuels.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Any device or a set of devices whose primary purpose
is to collect solar energy and convert and/or store it for useful purposes, or
to produce generated power by means of any combination of collecting,
transferring or converting solar-generated energy.
      SOLAR STRUCTURE. Any residential, commercial, industrial or business
structures directly connected to the solar energy system. All solar energy
systems shall be considered part of the principal structure which there serve
and shall not be considered as accessory structures or building in an of
themselves.
   (C)   Permitted use. Solar energy systems and solar structures shall be
permitted in all districts; provided that, the systems are in compliance with
the established dimensional requirements and other provisions of this city
code. Requests for variances shall be applied for and processed in the same
manner as is set forth in §
903.05(D) of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Access to direct sunlight. In any zone, either residential, commercial
or agricultural, no owner, occupier or person in control of property shall
allow vegetation or structures to be placed thereon so as to cast a shadow on a
solar energy system or solar structure which is greater or higher than the
shadow cast by a hypothetical wall of ten feet located along the boundary line
of said property between the hours of 9:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m., Central Standard
Time, on December 21; provided, however, that, this standard shall not apply to
vegetation or structures which cast a shadow upon the solar energy system at
the time of its installation or as to the vegetation existing at the time of
installation of the said solar energy system or solar structure. The city does
encourage the use of private easements and restrictive covenants as a means to
protect access to sunlight.
   (E)   Evidence of existing conditions. As a means of evidencing existing
conditions, the owner of a solar energy system shall file with City Clerk an
affidavit containing the following information:
      (1)   The applicant’s full name and address, together with the full name
and address of the fee owner of the property if different from that of the
applicant;
      (2)   A legal description to the property affected;
      (3)   A certificate of survey or other document specifying the boundary
lines of the effected property upon which the solar energy system is located;
      (4)   The names and addresses of all abutting owners to the affected
property;
      (5)   Attaching photographs of the affected property depicting the solar
energy system, the property upon which it is located, and its location with
regard to neighboring properties; and
      (6)   A statement by the applicant that they have served, either
personally or by registered or certified mail, all adjoining property owners
with a notice that the applicant would be filing an affidavit pursuant to this
section with the City Clerk and that they would have 30 days of the filing of
the applicant’s affidavit, the phonographs attached thereto shall be presumed
to be a true and correct pictorial depiction of the solar energy system, its
location upon the affected property and of all existing structures, trees,
shrubbery and other vegetation upon the affected property and upon all
adjoining properties. Should a timely notice of objection be filed by any
adjoining property owner, no presumption hereunder shall be created.
   (F)   Approval of solar energy systems or solar structures. For all the
permits required under §
905.04 of this chapter, no use permit, which includes a solar energy system or
solar structure, shall be issued without the property owner or his or her
designated agent first having obtained approval in writing from the zoning
administrator with regard to a solar energy system or solar structure plan
prior to issuing the building permit. Adding a solar energy system to and
existing building will require a building permit.
   (G)   Violation. Violation of any provision of this section is declared to
be a nuisance affecting the public health, safety and general welfare and shall
be prohibited as specified in this section of the code of ordinances of the
city.
PART III. GENERAL PROVISIONS AND EXCEPTIONS
§ 903.01 INTERPRETATIONS.
   The regulations in this chapter shall be subject to the interpretations and
exceptions specified in this section.
   (A)   Use. The following accessory uses, in addition to those hereinbefore
specified shall be permitted in any residential district, if the accessory uses
do not alter the character of the premises in respect to their use for the
purpose permitted in the district:
      (1)   The renting of rooms or the providing of table board in a dwelling
as and incidental use to that of its occupancy as a dwelling of the character
permitted in the respective district, but not to the extent of constituting a
hotel as defined in this chapter, unless permitted in the district;
      (2)   The operation of necessary facilities and equipment in connection
with schools, colleges, universities, hospitals and other institutions
permitted in the district; and
      (3)   Recreation, refreshment and service buildings in public parks and
playgrounds.
   (B)   Sign regulations. Signs other than those otherwise permitted in the
following cases and under the following conditions:
      (1)   Signs displaying only the name of property or premises upon which
displayed or of the owner or lessee;
      (2)   Signs not exceeding eight square feet in area pertaining only to
the sale, rental or lease of the premises upon which displayed; and
      (3)   The following signs upon securing a conditional use permit as
provided by this chapter for each such sign:
         (a)   Signs advertising the sale of a subdivision and located thereon;
and
         (b)   Directional and informational signs of a public or quasi-public
nature, including signs serving as directional signs to properties not situated
adjacent to the street next to which the signs are located.
   (C)   Excavating for construction. Nothing in this chapter prohibits the
excavating of nature materials for the construction of a building permitted in
the district in which the same is to be located if the building is to be
constructed on the lot from which the material is excavated. No use permit
shall be required for such excavating.
   (D)   Location. No filling station, public garage or gasoline distributing
station shall be located within 300 feet of a school, church, hospital or other
public meeting place having a seating capacity of more than 50 persons.
   (E)   Height.
      (1)   In any district with a height limit of less than 75 feet, public
and semi-public buildings, schools and churches, hospitals and other
institutions permitted in the district, may be erected to a height not
exceeding 75 feet. The front, rear and side yards shall be increased one foot
for each one foot by which the building exceeds the height limit herein before
established for such district.
      (2)   A dwelling in residential districts may be increased in height not
to exceed ten feet and to a total of not exceeding three stories when two side
yards of a width of not less than 15 feet each are provided.
      (3)   Upon the securing of a conditional use permit as provided in §
903.03 of this chapter, any building may be erected to a height exceeding that
herein before specified for the respective district, but the total floor area
of the building shall not exceed that possible for a building in the district
erected within the height limit specified in this chapter for the district.
      (4)   Subject to any other provisions of law, towers, gables, spires,
penthouses, scenery lofts, cupolas, water tanks, similar structures and
necessary mechanical appurtenances may be build and used to a greater height
that the limit established for the district in which the building is located,
with the following qualifications.
         (a)   No such exception shall cover at any level more than 15% in area
of the lot, nor have an area at the base greater than 1,600 feet.
         (b)   No tower, gable, spire or similar structure shall be used for
sleeping or eating quarters or for any commercial purpose, except one
incidental to the permitted uses of the main building.
         (c)   No building or structure in any district shall over-exceed a
maximum height of 150 feet; except that, the height limitations of this chapter
shall not apply to chimneys, church spires, flag poles, monuments, silos and
radio towers.
      (5)   Where the average slope of a lot is greater than one foot rise or
fall in seven feet of distance from the established street elevation at the
property line, one story in addition to the number permitted in the district in
which the lot is situated shall be permitted on the downhill side of any
building if the height of the height of the building is increased above the
limit specified for the district.
   (F)   Yards.
      (1)   For the purpose of computing front yard dimensions, measurements
shall be taken from the nearest point of the front wall of the building to the
street line, subject to the following qualifications.
         (a)   Cornices, canopies, or eaves may extend into the required front
yard a distance not exceeding two feet, six inches.
         (b)   Fire escapes may extend into the required front yard a distance
not exceeding two feet, six inches.
         (c)   A landing place or uncovered porch may extend into the required
front yard to a distance not exceeding six feet, if the landing place or porch
has its floor no height than the entrance floor of the building. An open
railing no higher than three feet may be placed around such place.
         (d)   The above enumerated architectural features may also extend into
any side or rear yard to the same extent; except that, no porch, terrace or
outside stairway shall project more than three feet into any side yard and
then, in the case of an outside stairway, only if it is unroofed and unenclosed
above and below the steps. In no case shall a porch, stair landing or other
architectural feature extend closer than four feet to the side property line.
         (e)   Fences, walls and hedges:
            1.   Except as limited below, a wall, fence or hedge, eight feet
high or less, may occupy part of the required yard, provided it is set back two
feet from the lot line. This setback requirement shall not apply to chain-link
fencing; provided, the same shall be installed with the good side out.
            2.   No wall or fence more than four feet high, except a retaining
wall, shall be constructed in a front yard without a special use permit.
            3.   Vision clearance in any residence zone on any corner lot; no
fence or accessory structure or planting shall rise over two and one-half feet
in height above the level of the public sidewalk within 20 feet of any corner,
so as to interfere with traffic visibility across the corner. No fence or wall
or planting rising over two and one-half above the level of the public sidewalk
shall be erected on any interior lot within ten feet of the front property line
where it will interfere with traffic visibility from a driveway.
      (2)   In the residential districts, in any case where 25% or more of the
lots in any block located in the same district, exclusive or the frontage along
the side or a corner lot, has been heretofore improved with buildings or a
character permitted in the district and the front yards on the lots vary in
depth to an extent not greater than six feet, the required front yard depth for
the district shall be disregarded in the block and instead the front yard
required on each lot in the block shall be of a depth not less than the average
depth of the front yards on the lots on which are located such existing
buildings, to a maximum of 50 feet. The same rule shall apply in any other
residential district on which are located such existing buildings in less than
the depth of front yards otherwise required by this chapter.
      (3)   In determining the depth of rear yard for any building where the
rear yard opens into an alley, one-half the width of the alley, but not
exceeding ten feet, may be considered as a portion of the rear yard subject to
the following qualifications.
         (a)   The depth of any rear yard shall not be reduced to less than ten
feet by application of the exception (15 feet is accepted when there is no
alley/right-of-way access).
         (b)   If the door of any building or improvement, except a fence,
opens toward an alley, it shall not be erected or established closer to the
center or the alley then a distance of 15 feet.
      (4)   In case an accessory building is attached to the main building, it
shall be made structurally a part of the main building and shall comply in all
respects with the requirements of this chapter applicable to the main
buildings. An accessory building, unless attached to and made a part of the
main building, shall not be closer than five feet to the main building, except
as otherwise provided in this section.
      (5)   A detached accessory building not over one story and not exceeding
12 feet in wall height may occupy not to exceed 30% of the area of any rear
yard.
      (6)   Detached accessory building in residential districts shall conform
to the following additional regulations as to their locations upon the lot.
         (a)   In the case of an interior lot abutting upon one street, no
detached accessory building shall be erected or altered so as to encroach upon
the front of the lot.
         (b)   In the case of an interior lot abutting upon two or more
streets, no detached accessory building shall be erected or altered so as to
encroach upon the one-fourth of the lot nearest either street or in any case
nearer to the established building line on either street frontage.
         (c)   In the case of a corner lot abutting upon two streets, no
accessory building shall be erected or structurally altered so as to encroach
upon the front half of the lot, nor so that the building will be to the lot
line along the street side of the lot than a distance equal to the width of
side yard on the street side of the lot; but on a corner lot adjacent to a key
lot no detached accessory building shall be located nearer to the street line
of the street upon which the key lot faces than a distance equal to the depth
of front yard required on the key lot.
         (d)   In the case of a corner lot abutting on more than two streets,
no detached accessory building shall be erected or altered so as to be nearer
to the lot line long the street side of the lot than a distance equal to the
width of the side yard on the street of the lot or nearer to any other street
line of the lot than a distance equal to one-fourth the depth of the lot.
         (e)   No detached accessory building shall be within five feet of the
sideline of the front half of any adjacent lot, except as herein before
specifically permitted.
         (f)   The forgoing rules shall not require:
            1.   Any detached accessory building to be more than 75 feet from
any street line bounding the lot; and
            2.   The street side of any detached accessory building to be
nearer to the lot line opposite the street line than 20 feet.
      (7)   A private garage to be separated from the front and side lines of
the lot where the slope of the front half of the lot is greater than one foot
rise or fall in a distance of seven feet from the established street elevation
at the property line or where the elevation of the lot at the street line is
five feet or more above or below the established street elevation.
      (8)   No swimming pool shall be erected, excavated or otherwise placed or
used on any property unless it is completely surrounded by a permanent fence at
least six feet in height. The fence must be built in accordance with division
(F)(1)(e) above and all other provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Major recreational equipment. No boat, boat trailer, travel trailer,
pickup-camper or coach designed to be mounted on a motor vehicle, motorized
dwelling, tent trailer or similar major recreational equipment, and no case or
box used for transporting such equipment shall be parked or stored for more
than 72 hours on any lot in a residential district except in a car port or
enclosed building or in a side or rear yard. No point or any such equipment
shall be located within three feet of the rear or side lot line, except when
parked in a established driveway and in no case shall any such point be closer
than ten feet from the living quarters of a residence on adjoining property. No
such equipment shall be used for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes when
parked or stored on a residential lot, or in any location not approved for such
use.
   (H)   Performance standards.
      (1)   Compliance required. Every use permitted by this chapter shall be
so established and maintained as to comply with the provisions of this section.
The Council may require the owner or operator of a use permitted by this
chapter to provide such tests or investigations by an independent testing
organization satisfactory to the Council as are necessary to show compliance
with these standards. The cost of such investigations and tests shall be shared
equally the owner or operator and the city unless the results disclose
noncompliance with these standards; in that event, the entire cost shall be
borne by the owner or operator. This provision does not preclude the city from
making any investigations and tests it finds appropriate to determine
compliance with these standards.
      (2)   Noise. Noise shall be measured on any property line of the tract on
which the source of the noise is located. Noise shall be so muffled as not to
become objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency, shrillness or
intensity. At the property line, the sound pressure level of noise radiated
continuously from a facility shall not exceed the values given in Table A. The
sound pressure level shall be measured with a Sound Level Meter and an
Associated Octave Band Analyzer, both of which are manufactured to
specifications published by the American Standard Specifications for an Octave
Band Filer Set for the Analysis of Noise and other Sounds Z24, 10-1953,
American Standards Association, Inc., New York, New York. Measurements shall be
made using the flat network of the sound level meter.
      (3)   Odor. No use shall cause the discharge of toxic, noxious or odorous
matter beyond the limits of the site where it is located in such concentrations
as to be obnoxious or otherwise detrimental to the public health, safety,
comfort or welfare or cause injury to property or business
Table A: Maximum Permissible Sound Pressure Levels of Specified Points of
Measurement for Noise Radiated Continuously from a Facility
Band Cycles per Sound Frequency Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
Table A: Maximum Permissible Sound Pressure Levels of Specified Points of
Measurement for Noise Radiated Continuously from a Facility
Band Cycles per Sound Frequency Maximum Permitted Sound Level (Decibels)
20 - 75                         75
150 - 300                       59
300 - 600                       52
600 - 1,200                     46
1,200 - 2,400                   40
2,400 - 4,800                   34
Over 4,800                      32
 
      (4)   Glare. Direct or reflected glare, such as from floodlights,
spotlights or high temperature processes, and as differentiated form general
illuminations, shall not be visible beyond the site of origin at any property
line. Any lights used for exterior illumination shall be directed away from
adjacent properties.
      (5)   Vibrations. Vibrations at any property line shall not be
discernible to the human sense of feeling for three minutes or more duration in
any one-hour period. Vibration of any kind shall not produce at any time an
acceleration of more than one-tenth gravities or result in any combination of
amplitudes and frequencies beyond the ‘’safe’‘ range of Table VII, Untied
States Bureau of Mines Bulletin No. 442 ‘’Seismic Effects of Quarry Blasting’‘
on any structure. The methods and equations of that bulletin shall be used to
compute all values for the enforcement of this provision.
      (6)   Smoke. Smoke shall be measured at the point of emission by using
the Ringlemann Smoke Chart, published by the United States Bureau of Mines in
circular No. 7718. Smoke not darker or more opaque than No. 1 on that chart may
be emitted; except that, smoke not darker or more opaque than No. 3 on the
chart may be emitted for a period of not longer than four minutes in any 30
minutes. These provisions applicable to visible gray smoke shall also apply to
visible smoke or a different color by with an equivalent capacity.
      (7)   Dust. Solid or liquid particles shall not be emitted at any point
in concentrations exceeding three-tenth grains per cubic foot of the conveying
gas or air. For measurement of the amount of particles in gases resulting form
combustion, standard corrections shall be applied to a stack temperature of
500°F and 50% excess air.
      (8)   Fumes or gases. Fumes or gases shall not be emitted at any point in
concentrations that are noxious, toxic or corrosive. The values given in Table
1 (Industrial Hygiene Standards - Maximum Allowable Concentration for eight-
hour day, five days per week), Table III (Odor Thresholds), Table IV
(Concentrations of Substances Causing Pain in the Eyes) and Table V (Exposure
to Substances Causing Damage to Vegetation) in the latest revision of Chapter
5, ‘’Physiological Effects’‘, that contains such tables, in the Air Pollution
Abatement Manual, published by the Manufacturing Chemists’ Association, Inc.,
Washington, D.C., are hereby established as guides for the determinations of
permissible concentrations and amounts. The city may require detailed plans for
the elimination of fumes of gases before the issuance of a building permit.
      (9)   Fire hazards. Any activity involving the use or storage of
flammable or explosive materials shall be protected by adequate firefighting
and fire prevention equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used
in the handling of such materials, Such hazards shall be kept removed from
adjacent activities to a distance which is compatible with the potential danger
involved.
      (10)   Wastes. All solid waste material, debris or refuse shall be kept
within a completely enclosed building or properly contained in a closed
container designed for such purposes. All liquid wastes containing any organic
or toxic matter shall be either discharged into a public sanitary sewer or
treated in a manner prescribed by the Health Officer.
      (11)   Air pollution. Every activity shall conform to state regulations
relating to air quality standards and air pollution control.
      (12)   Sewer and water. The design and construction of water supply
facilities and treatment of all sewage and waste shall comply with the city,
county and state health standards, ordinances, statutes and requirements.
§ 903.02 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING SPACE.
   (A)   Off-street automobile storage or parking space shall be provided on
any lot which any of the following uses are hereafter established:
 
Dwelling                              1 parking space for each individual unit
Hotel                                 1 parking space for each 4 guests
                                      sleeping rooms
                                      1 parking space for each 400 square feet
                                      of gross floor area or for each 5
Industrial or manufacturing           workers, based on peak employment and
establishments                        adequate space for loading and unloading
                                      all vehicles used incidental to the
                                      operations of the industrial or
                                      manufacturing establishment
Office building and stores            1 parking space for each 300 square feet
                                      of office or store floor area
Theater, stadium, auditorium or other 1 parking space for each 1 seat, based on
places of public assembly             maximum seating capacity
Tourist accommodation                 1 parking space for each room offered for
                                      tourist accommodations
 
   (B)   Such space shall be provided with vehicular access to street or alley
and shall be considered required open space associated with permitted use. It
shall not be reduced or encroached upon in any manner after the use is
established. Where such space cannot be reasonably provided on the same lot
with the principal use, the Council, with the approval of the Planning
Commission, may permit such space to be located on other off-street property if
the space is within 500 feet of the permitted use, measured along lines of
public access.
   (C)   In any commercial or industrial district, space for loading of
vehicles shall be provided on the same lot for every building used or designed
to be used for that purpose. One loading space at least ten by 25 feet shall be
provided for each 20,000 square feet of floor area in the building. Where such
space is completely enclosed within a building by walls and doors which close,
a height clearance of at least 12 feet, nine inches shall be provided. Where
such space is located wholly or in part outside of the building and is not
completely enclosed, a height clearance of at least 14 feet shall be provided.
Where approach ramps are sloped so as to necessitate clearance in addition to
that here in specified, this clearance shall be adequate to allow the free
passage of a semi-trailer 12 feet, six inches in height and with a wheel base
of 21 feet. These requirements may be increased, modified or waived on appeal
where conditions or circumstances justify such action.
§ 903.03 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Conditional use permits may be issued for any of the following:
      (1)   Any of the uses or purposes for which such permits are required of
permitted by the provisions of this chapter, except as provided in division (B)
below;
      (2)   Public utility or public service uses or public buildings in any
district when found to be necessary for the public health, safety, convenience
or welfare;
      (3)   Commercial excavating of natural materials used for building or
construction purposes, in any district;
      (4)   To classify as a conforming use any institutional use existing in
any district; and
      (5)   To permit the location of any of the following uses in a district
from which they are excluded by the provisions of this chapter: airport,
library, community center, church, hospital, any institution of an educational,
philanthropic or charitable nature, cemetery, crematory, mausoleum or any other
place for the disposal of the human dead.
   (B)   (1)   Applications for the issuance of a conditional use permit shall
be made to the Planning Commission; except that, any proceedings to classify
certain uses as conforming uses as provided in this section may be initiated
either by such application or by the City Council or the Planning Commission.
The Planning Commission may hold such hearings on the proposal to issue a
conditional use permit as it may consider necessary; but at least one public
hearing shall be held on any application for a use permit for the establishment
of any use listed in division (A)(5) above. Following the hearing, the Planning
Commission shall make a report to the Council upon the proposal and shall
recommend the granting of a permit unless it finds that the establishment,
maintenance or conducting of the use for which a permit is sought will not
under the circumstances of the particular case be detrimental:
         (a)   To the health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience or welfare
of the persons residing or working in the neighborhood of such use; or
         (b)   To the public welfare or injurious to property or improvements
in the neighborhood.
      (2)   It may designate conditions and require guarantees in the granting
of use permits in the manner provided in §
903.05 of this chapter for the granting of adjustments. Upon receipt of the
report of the Planning Commission, the Council shall hold whatever public
hearing it deems advisable and shall make a decision upon the proposal to grant
a use permit. If it finds that the conditions exist which are necessary under
this section before the Planning Commission may recommend the granting of a use
permit, the Council may grant the use permit and it may attach to the permit
such conditions and guarantees as are provided for in §
903.02 of this chapter for the granting of adjustments.
   (C)   Any use permitted under the terms of any conditional use permit shall
be established and conducted in conformity to the terms of such permit and of
any condition designated in connection therewith.
   (D)   Upon consideration of the factors listed above and the purpose of this
chapter, the Planning Commission may attach such conditions to the granting of
conditional use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this
chapter. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Modification of waste disposal and water supply facilities;
      (2)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy and operation;
      (3)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties and deed restrictions;
      (4)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications, dikes,
levees and other protective measures; and
      (5)   Flood-proofing measures, in accordance with the state’s Building
Code. The applicant shall submit a plan or document certified by a registered
professional engineer or architect that the flood-proofing measures are
consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and associated flood
factors for the particular area.
§ 903.04 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful
before the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
      (1)   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged or altered in
anyway which increases its non-conformity.
      (2)   No structural alteration or addition to any non-conforming
structure over the life of the structure shall exceed 50% of its market value
at the time of its becoming a non-conforming use, unless the entire structure
is permanently changed to a conforming use.
      (3)   If any non-conforming use is discontinued for 12 consecutive
months, any future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter.
The assessor shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of instances of
non-conforming uses which have been discontinued for a period of 12 months.
      (4)   If any non-conforming use is destroyed by any means to an extent of
50% or more of its market value, it shall not be reconstructed, except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter. The sole exception to this
provision is stated in division (D) below.
   (B)   No junkyard may continue as a non-conforming use for more than one
year after the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   No outdoor advertising structure may continue as a non-conforming use
for more than one year after the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   Manufactured homes and homes which are transportable structures and
designed to be used as dwellings, but do not meet the standards of a
manufactured home in some way are expressly allowed to continue as non-
conforming uses for and during the lifetime of the person or persons who own
the property at the time of adoption of this chapter. If a non-conforming home
is destroyed by any means, during the present owner’s lifetime, another
manufactured home may be placed on the property. Upon sale or transfer of the
property, the existing manufactured home may remain on the property in
accordance with division (A) above, but upon the home’s destruction or removal,
any future use of the property shall conform to this chapter.
   (E)   No motor vehicle or trailer without current license plates or existing
in an inoperable condition shall be parked or stored in any street or alley.
§ 903.05 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENTS.
   (A)   Establishment. There is hereby created a Zoning Board of Adjustments
and Appeals, which shall be composed of members of the Planning Commission.
Three members of the Board constitute a quorum, and all action by the Board
requires the affirmative vote of the quorum. The Board shall serve without
compensation. The Board shall elect one of its members as Chairperson and
appoint a Secretary who may, but need not be, one of its members. Staff
services for the Board shall be furnished by the Council.
   (B)   Rules. The Board of Adjustments shall adopt rules for the conduct of
business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on such boards by state
law.
   (C)   Administrative review. The Board shall hear and decide appeals where
it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement, decision or
determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement of
administration of this chapter.
   (D)   Variances. The Board may authorize, upon appeal in specific cases,
such variance from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary to the
public interest, where, owing to special conditions, literal enforcement of the
provisions of this chapter will result in unnecessary hardship so that the
spirit of this chapter shall be observed and substantial justice done. No
variance shall have the effect of allowing in any district uses prohibited in
that district, permit a lower degree of flood protection that the regulatory
flood protection elevation for the particular area, or permit standards lower
that those required by state law.
   (E)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Board a request for variance or an
appeal from an administrative order or determination, the Board shall set a
date for hearing thereon, which be not later than 60 days from the date of
filing, and shall hear such persons as wish to be heard, either in person or by
agent or attorney. Notice of any such hearing shall be mailed not less than ten
days before the date of hearing to each person who filed the appeal or request
and, in the case of a request for a variance, to each owner of property
situated wholly or partly within 350 feet of the property to which the variance
related insofar as the name and addresses of such owners can be determined by
the Clerk from records available to the public. The Board shall submit by mail
to the Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the application for proposed
variance sufficiently in advance so that the Commissioner will receive at least
ten days’ notice of the hearing for all variance granted in Floodplain District
(F-1), Part VIII of this chapter.
   (F)   Decisions. The Board shall arrive at a decision on such appeal on
variance with ten days. In passing upon an appeal the Board may, so long as
such action is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or
affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from. It shall make its decision in writing setting
forth the finding of fact and the reasons for the decisions for all variances
granted in Floodplain District (F-1), Part VIII of this chapter.
   (G)   Appeal to the City Council and District Court. Appeals from any
decision of the Board may be taken by any person or persons, jointly or
severally, aggrieved by any decision of the Board, or any taxpayer, officer,
department, board or bureau of the municipality, to the City Council. The
decision of the City Council may be appealed to the district court of this
jurisdiction as provided in M.S. § 462.361, as it may be amended from time to
time.
§ 903.06 GROUP HOUSING PROJECTS.
   When a housing project consisting of a group of two or more buildings is to
be constructed on a plot of land of at least three acres and the land is not to
be subdivided into the customary streets and lots or the existing or
contemplated street and lot layout make it impracticable to apply the
requirements of this chapter to the individual buildings in the housing
project, the Council, upon favorable recommendation of the Planning Commission
after a public hearing, shall apply the requirements of this chapter to the
housing project in a manner that will be in harmony with the character of the
neighborhood, will ensure a density of land use no higher and a standard of
open space at least as high as required by this chapter in the district in
which the project is located. In no case shall the Council authorize a non-
residential use or a building height prohibited in the district.
§ 903.07 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   A certificate of occupancy shall be obtained before:
      (1)   Any vacant land is hereafter occupied or used, except for
agricultural purposes other than livestock farming or dairying;
      (2)   Any building hereafter erected or structurally altered is occupied
or used; or
      (3)   The use of any such building is altered.
   (B)   (1)   Application for a certificate of occupancy for a new building or
for an existing building which has been altered shall be made to the City Clerk
as part of the application for such building as required in of this chapter.
The certificate shall be issued within ten days after the erection or
alteration of such building or part thereof has been completed in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter. Pending the issuance of such a
certificate, the City Clerk may issue a temporary certificate of occupancy for
a period of not exceeding six months during the completion of the erection or
alteration of such building.
      (2)   The temporary certificate shall not be construed as in any way
altering the respective rights, duties or obligations of the owners or the city
relating to the use or occupancy of the premises or any other matter except
under such restrictions and provisions as will adequately ensure the safety of
occupants.
   (C)   Written application for a certificate of occupancy for the use of
vacant land or for a change in the character of the use of land as provided in
shall be made before any such land shall be so occupied for use. Such
certificate of occupancy shall be issued within three days after the
application therefor has been made if the use is in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   Every certificate of occupancy shall state that the building or
proposed use of a building or land complies with all provisions of law and of
this chapter. A record of all certificates of occupancy shall be kept on file
in the office of the City Clerk and copies shall be furnished on request to any
person having a propionate or tenancy interest in the building or land
affected. No fee shall be charged for a certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   No building permit for the erection or alteration of a building
shall be issued before application has been made for a certificate of
occupancy.
PART IV. AMENDMENTS AND PETITIONS
§ 904.01 AMENDMENT.
   (A)   This chapter may be amended whenever the public necessity and
convenience and the general welfare require such amendment by following the
procedure specified in this section.
   (B)   An amendment may be initiated by the City Council or the Planning
Commission, or by the verified petition of not less than 50% of the property
owners within 300 feet of the proposed change. An amendment not initiated by
the Planning Commission shall be referred to the Commission for study and
report and may not be acted upon by the governing body until it has received
the recommendation of the Planning Commission or until 60 days have elapsed
from the date of reference of the amendment without a report by the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   Before any amendment is adopted, the Planning Commission shall hold at
least one public hearing thereon after a notice of the hearing has been
published in the official newspaper at least ten days before the hearing. When
an amendment involves changes in district boundaries affecting an area of five
acres or less, a similar notice shall be mailed at least ten days before the
day of the hearing to each owner of affected property and property to which the
amendment relates. Following the hearing, the Planning Commission shall make a
report of its findings and recommendations on the proposed amendment and shall
file a copy with the City Clerk within ten days of the meeting at which the
date of the hearing was set. Failure of the Planning Commission so to report
shall be deemed to be approval by the Commission of the proposed amendment.
   (D)   Upon the filing of such report or upon the expiration of such ten days
as aforesaid, the City Council shall hold such public hearing upon the
amendment as it deems advisable. After the conclusion of the hearing, if any,
the Council may adopt the amendment or any part thereof in such form as it
deems advisable. The amendment shall be effective only if two-thirds of all the
members of the Council concur in its passage.
   (E)   (1)   The floodplain designation on the official zoning map shall not
be removed from floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is
in error or that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the
regional flood and is contiguous to land outside the floodplain. Special
exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the Commissioner of Natural
Resources if he or she determines that, through other measures, lands are
adequately protected for the intended use.
      (2)   All amendments to this chapter relating to uses in the Floodplain
District (F-1), in Part VIII of this chapter, including amendments of the
official zoning map, must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of
Natural Resources prior to adoption. Changes in the official zoning map also
require prior approval by the Federal Insurance Administration for use in the
Floodplain District (F-1), Part VIII of this chapter.
§ 904.02 PETITION FOR AMENDMENT AND ADJUSTMENTS - FEES.
   (A)   Any person filing a petition for and amendment to the zoning ordinance
requesting a variance from the Board of Adjustments and Appeals or a change in
regulations with in any use district shall pay a fee according to the schedule
established.
   (B)   (1)   Fees payable under this section are as follows:
 
Type of Request       Area Included                      Fee
Variance              Any area                           $10
Change of regulations Any area                           $10
Rezoning
                      Under 20,000 square feet           $10
                      20,000 to 50,000 square feet       $10
                      Each additional 50,000 square feet $10
 
      (2)   The fee is payable at the time of filing a petition and is not
refundable.
   (C)   The petition shall give the street address of the land as to which the
petition is made, contain a legal description thereof, state the mailing
address of the owner and clearly describe the building or structure to be built
or altered if the petition is granted, or if the petition is for a change in
any regulations of this chapter, shall state the change and the reasons
therefor. The Planning Commission may require the petitioner to submit a
certificate by a registered professional land surveyor verifying the front,
rear and side yard setbacks of all buildings and structures situated on or
adjacent to the property described in the petition.
PART V. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 905.01 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall serve as the Zoning Administrator and he
or she shall be responsible for enforcing this chapter. If he or she finds a
violation of the provisions of this chapter, he or she shall notify the person
responsible for such violation, indicate the nature of the violation and order
action necessary to correct it.
   (B)   In carrying out this general authority, he or she shall:
      (1)   Maintain permanent and current records pertaining to this chapter
including, but not limited to, maps, amendments, conditional uses, variance,
appeals, planned unit developments and applications therefor;
      (2)   Receive, file and forward applications for appeals, various,
conditional use permits or other action to the appropriate official bodies;
      (3)   Provide clerical and technical assistance to the Zoning Board and
Planning Commission; and
      (4)   Make recommendations to the Council on the institution of
appropriate actions or proceedings for enforcement of this chapter, on
amendments and on any other matters relating to the administration of this
chapter.
§ 905.02 CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council/Building Inspector shall administer the requirements of
this chapter for building and occupancy permits and issue or deny each
application in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
§ 905.03 BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   The Building Inspector or other officials appointed by the City Council
shall conduct inspections of buildings and the use of land to determine
compliance with the terms of this chapter, if necessary.
§ 905.04 USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Use permit required. A use permit issued by the City Council/Building
Inspector/Zoning Administrator in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter shall be secured prior to the erection, addition or alteration of any
building, structure or portion thereof; prior to the use or change of use of a
building, structure or land; prior to the change or extension of a non-
conforming use; and prior to the placement of fill or excavation of materials
within the floodplain.
   (B)   Application for use permit. Application for a use permit shall be made
in duplicate to the Building Inspector on forms furnished by him or her and
shall include the following where applicable: plans in duplicate drawn to
scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the lot;
existing or proposed structures, fill or storage of materials; and the location
of the foregoing in relation to any stream channel.
   (C)   State and federal permits. Prior to granting a use permit or
processing an application for a conditional use permit or variance, the Zoning
Administrator shall determine that the applicant has obtained all necessary
state and federal permits.
   (D)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered or non-conforming
use. It shall be unlawful to use, occupy or permit the use or occupancy of any
building or premises or part thereof hereafter created, erected, changed,
converted, altered or enlarged in its use or structure until a certificate of
zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning Administrator/Building
Inspector, stating that the use of building or land conforms to the
requirements of this chapter. Where a non-conforming use or structure is
extended or substantially altered, the certificate of zoning compliance shall
specifically state the manner in which the non-conforming structure or use
differs from the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Construction and use to be as provided in applications, plans, permits
and certificate of zoning compliance.
      (1)   Use permits, conditional use permits or certificates of zoning
compliance issued on the basis of approved plans and applications authorize
only the use, arrangement and construction at variance with the authorized
shall be deemed violation of this chapter, and punishable as provided by Part
VI (Penalty Section) of this chapter.
      (2)   The applicant shall be required to submit certification by a
registered professional engineer, registered architect or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Flood-proofing measures shall be certified by a registered
architect.
   (F)   Completion of work.
      (1)   Any person altering, repairing or remodeling the exterior portion
of a building, including an attached or detached garage, shall complete such
work within 180 days from the date of issuance of the use and building permits.
The issuing authority may extend the time for completion upon written request
of the permittee establishing that circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee prevented completion of the work for which the building permit was
authorized.
      (2)   All building debris must be removed from the work site within said
180 days from the date of issuance of the use and building permits unless the
issuing authority extends the time for completion upon the written request of
the permittee.
      (3)   Any permittee who fails to remove said work debris in a timely
fashion, even if the work has not been completed, but no extension has been
granted, shall be in violation of the terms of this chapter and the terms of
the use and building permits and shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable
by a fine of up to $1,000 and by up to 90 days in jail.
PART VI. PENALTIES
§ 906.01 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not to exceed $700 or by imprisonment not to
exceed 90 days for each offense. Each day that the violation is permitted to
exist shall constitute a separate offense.
PART VII. VALIDITY OF CHAPTER
§ 907.01 VALIDITY OF CHAPTER.
   Should any part or portion of this chapter be declared to be invalid by any
court or competent jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall continue
in full force and effect and, except for any part expressly found invalid by
such court, shall continue to be valid.
PART VIII. FLOODS - STANDARDS AND CONDITIONS
§ 908.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION; FINDINGS OF FACT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   Statutory authorization. The legislature of the state has, in M.S. Ch.
103A through Ch. 103F, as they may be amended from time to time, delegated the
responsibility to the local government units to adopt regulations designed to
minimize flood losses. Therefore, the city does ordain as follows.
   (B)   Findings of facts.
      (1)   General. The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in potential loss of life, loss of property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures or flood protection and relief and impairment
of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and
general welfare.
      (2)   Methods used to analyze flood hazards. This chapter is based upon a
reasonable method of analyzing flood hazards which is consistent with the
standards established by the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
      (3)   Statement of purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote
the public health, safety and general welfare and to minimize those losses
described in division (B)(1) above by provisions contained herein.
§ 908.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which part applies. This chapter shall apply to all lands
within the jurisdiction of the city shown on the official zoning map and/or the
attachments thereto as being located within the boundaries of the Floodway,
Flood Fringe or General Floodplain Districts.
   (B)   Establishment of official zoning map. The official zoning map together
with all materials attached thereto is hereby adopted by reference and declared
to be a part of this chapter. The attached material shall include the Flood
Insurance Study for the city prepared by the Federal Emergency Management
Agency dated 1-6-1999, and the Flood Insurance Rate Map dated 1-6-1999 therein.
The official zoning map shall be on file in the office of the City Clerk and
the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Regulatory flood protection elevation. The regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be an elevation no lower than one foot above the elevation of
the regional flood, plus any increases in flood elevation caused encroachments
on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.
   (D)   Interpretations.
      (1)   In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements and shall be liberally
construed in favor of the governing body and shall not be deemed a limitation
or repeal of any other powers granted by state statutes.
      (2)   The boundaries of the zoning districts shall be determined by
scaling distances on the official zoning map. Where interpretation is needed as
to the exact location of the boundaries of the district as shown on the
official zoning map, as for example where there appears to be a conflict
between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions and there is a formal
appeal of the decision of the Zoning Administrator, the Board of Adjustment
shall make the necessary interpretation. All decisions will be based on
elevations on the regional (100-year) flood profile and other available
technical data. Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries
shall be given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Board and
to submit technical evidence.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. It is not intended by this
chapter to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter imposes greater restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. All other ordinances inconsistent
with this chapter are hereby repealed to the extent of the inconsistency only.
   (F)   Warning and disclaimer of liability. This chapter does not imply that
areas outside the floodplain districts or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not
create liability of the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
   (G)   Severability. If any section, clause, provision or portion of this
chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent
jurisdiction, the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   (H)   Definitions. For the purpose of this part, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure on the same lot with, and
of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
      BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its
floor or base subgrade (below ground level) on all four sides, regardless of
the depth of the excavation below ground level.
      CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed by only after an in-depth review procedure
and with appropriate conditions or restrictions as provided in the official
zoning controls or building codes and upon a finding that:
         (a)   Certain conditions as detailed in the zoning ordinance exist;
and
         (b)   The structure and/or land use conform to the comprehensive land
use plan if one exists and are compatible with the existing neighborhood.
      EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. A method of determining the location of
floodway boundaries so that floodplain lands on both sides of a stream are
capable of conveying a proportionate share of flood flows.
      FLOOD. A temporary increase in the flow or stage of a stream or in state
of a wetland or lake that results in the inundation of normally dry areas.
      FLOOD FREQUENCY. The frequency for which it is expected that a specific
flood stage or discharge may be equaled or exceeded.
      FLOOD FRINGE. The portion of the floodplain outside of the floodway.
FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the Flood
Insurance Study for the city.
      FLOODPLAIN. The beds proper and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or
watercourse which have been or hereafter may be covered by the regional flood.
      FLOOD-PROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages.
      FLOODWAY. The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse
and those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the regional flood discharge.
      OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or
projecting, into any channel, watercourse or regulatory floodplain which may
impede, retard or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself
or by catching or collecting debris carried by such water.
      PRINCIPAL USE OR STRUCTURE. All uses or structures that are not accessory
uses or structures.
      REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of
a stream or river influenced by a natural or human-made obstruction. In an
urban area, the segment of a stream or river between two consecutive bridge
crossing would not typically constitute a REACH.
      REGIONAL FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large floods know to
have occurred generally in the state and reasonably characteristic of what can
be expected to occur on an average frequency in the magnitude of the 100-year
recurrence interval. REGIONAL FLOOD is synonymous with the term BASE FLOOD used
in the Flood Insurance Study.
      REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. The regulatory flood protection
elevation shall be an elevation no lower than one foot above the elevation of
the regional flood, plus any increases in flood elevation caused by
encroachments on the floodplain that result from designation of a floodway.
      STRUCTURE. Any thing constructed or erected on the ground or attached to
the ground or on-site utilities, including, but not limited to, buildings,
factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured homes, travel
trailers/vehicles not meeting the exemption criteria specified in §
908.09(C)(1) of this chapter and other similar items.
      VARIANCE. A modification of a specific permitted development standard
required in an official control including this chapter to allow an alternative
development standard not stated as acceptable in the official control, but only
as applied to a particular property for the purpose of alleviating a hardship,
practical difficulty or unique circumstance as defined and elaborated upon in a
community’s respective planning and zoning enabling legislation.
§ 908.03 ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Floodway District. The Floodway District shall include those areas
designated as floodway on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
908.02(B) of this chapter.
   (B)   Flood Fringe District. The Flood Fringe District shall include those
areas designated as Zone AE on the Flood Insurance Rate Map adopted in §
908.02 of this chapter that are located outside of the floodway.
   (C)   General Floodplain District. The General Floodplain District shall
include those areas designated as unnumbered A Zones on the Flood Insurance
Rate Map adopted in §
908.02 of this chapter.
§ 908.04 FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW).
   (A)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   General farming, pasture, grazing, outdoor plant nurseries,
horticulture, truck farming, forestry, sod farming and wild crop harvesting;
      (2)   Industrial-commercial loading areas, parking areas and airport
landing strips;
      (3)   Private and public golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges,
archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat aunching ramps, swimming areas, parks,
wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves,
target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting and fishing areas, single or
multiple purpose recreational trails; and
      (4)   Residential lawns gardens, parking areas and play areas.
   (B)   Standards for floodway permitted uses.
      (1)   The use shall have a low flood damage potential.
      (2)   The use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning district if
one exists.
      (3)   The use shall not obstruct flood flows or increase flood elevations
and shall not involve structures, fill obstructions, excavations or storage of
materials or equipment.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Structures accessory to the uses listed in division (A) above and
the uses listed in divisions (C)(2) through (C)(8) below;
      (2)   Extraction and storage of sand, gravel and other materials;
      (3)   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, wharves and water control
structures;
      (4)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines and
pipelines;
      (5)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery or materials;
      (6)   Placement of fill;
      (7)   Travel trailers and travel vehicles either on individual lots of
record or in existing or new subdivisions or commercial or condominium type
campgrounds, subject to the exemptions and provisions of §
908.09(C) of this chapter; and
      (8)   Structural words for flood control such as levees, dikes and
floodwalls constructed to any height where the intent is to protect individual
structures and levees or dikes where the intent is to protect agricultural
crops for a frequency flood event equal to or less than the ten-year frequency
flood event.
   (D)   Standards for floodway conditional uses.
      (1)   No structure (temporary or permanent), fill (including fill for
roads and levees), deposit, obstruction, storage of materials or equipment or
other uses may be allowed as a conditional use that will cause any increase in
the stage of the 100-year or regional flood or cause an increase in flood
damages in the reach or reaches affected.
      (2)   All floodway conditional uses shall be subject to the procedures
and standards contained in §
908.10(D) of this chapter.
      (3)   The conditional use shall be permissible in the underlying zoning
district if one exists.
      (4)   Fill:
         (a)   Fill, dredge spoils and all other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain shall be protected from erosion by vegetative cover,
mulching, rip rap or other acceptable method.
         (b)   Dredge spoil sites and sand and gravel operations shall not be
allowed in the floodway unless a long-term site development plan is submitted
which includes an erosion/sedimentation prevention element to the plan.
         (c)   As an alternative, and consistent with division (D)(4)(b) above,
dredge spoil disposal, and sand and gravel operations may allow temporary, on-
site storage and fill or other materials which would have caused an increase to
the stage of the 100-year or regional flood, but only after the governing body
has received an appropriate plan which assures the removal of the materials
from the floodway based upon the flood warning time available. The conditional
use permit must be title registered with the property in the office of the
County Recorder.
      (5)   Accessory structures:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall not be designed for human habitation.
         (b)   Accessory structures, if permitted, shall be constructed and
placed on the building site so as to offer the minimum obstruction to the flow
of flood waters.
            1.   Whenever possible, structures shall be constructed with the
longitudinal axis parallel to the direction of flood flow.
            2.   So far as practicable, structures shall be placed
approximately on the same flood flow lines as those of adjoining structures.
         (c)   Accessory structures shall be elevated on fill or structurally
dry flood-proofed in accordance with the FP-1 or FP-2 flood-proofing
classifications in the state’s Building Code. As an alternative, an accessory
structure may be flood-proofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 flood-proofing
classification in the state’s Building Code; provided, the accessory structure
constitutes a minimal investment, does not exceed 500 square feet in size, and
for a detached garage, the detached garage must be used solely for parking of
vehicles or limited storage. All flood-proofed accessory structures must meet
the following additional standards, as appropriate.
            1.   The structure must be adequately anchored to prevent
floatation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure and shall be designed
to equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls.
            2.   Any mechanical and utility equipment in a structure must be
elevated to or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or properly
flood-proofed.
      (6)   Storage of materials and equipment:
         (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are in time of
flooding flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
         (b)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
      (7)   Structural works for flood control that will change the course,
current or cross-section of protected wetlands or public waters shall be
subject to the provisions of the M.S. Ch. 103g, as it may be amended from time
to time. Community-wide structural works for flood control intended to remove
areas from the regulatory floodplain shall not be allowed in the floodway.
      (8)   A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in the floodway shall not
cause an increase to the 100-year or regional flood and the technical analysis
must assume equal conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a stream.
§ 908.05 FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF).
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or
structures listed as permitted uses in the underlying zoning use district(s).
If no preexisting, underlying zoning use structure or land shall be a permitted
use in the flood fringe provided such use does not constitute a public
nuisance. All permitted uses shall comply with the standards for flood fringe
‘’permitted uses’‘ listed in division (E) below.
   (B)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses.
      (1)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor, including basement floor, is at or above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. The finished fill elevation for
structures shall be no lower than one foot below the regulatory flood
protection elevation and the fill shall extend at such elevation at least 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the structure erected thereon.
      (2)   As an alternative to elevation on fill, accessory structures that
constitute a minimal investment and that do not exceed 500 square feet for the
outside dimension at ground level may be internally flood-proofed in accordance
with §
908.04(D)(5)(c) of this chapter.
      (3)   The cumulative placement of fill where at any one time in excess of
1,000 cubic yards of fill is located on the parcel shall be allowable only as a
conditional use, unless said fill is specifically intended to elevate a
structure in accordance with division (B)(1) above.
      (4)   The storage of any materials or equipment shall be elevated on fill
to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (5)   The provisions of division (E) below shall apply.
   (C)   Conditional uses. Any structure that is not elevated on fill or flood-
proofed in accordance with divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above or any use of land
that does not comply with the standards in divisions (B)(3) and (B)(4) above
shall only be allowable as a conditional use. An application for a conditional
use shall be subject to the standards and critical and evaluation procedures
specified in divisions (D) and (E) below and §
908.10(D) of this chapter.
   (D)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses.
      (1)   (a)   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may
be utilized to elevated a structure’s lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. These alternative methods may include the sue of stilts,
pilings, parallel walls and the like or above-grade, enclosed areas such as
crawl spaces or tuck under garages. The base or floor of an enclosed area shall
be considered above-grade and not a structure’s basement or lowest floor if:
            1.   The enclosed area is above-grade on at least one side of the
structure;
            2.   It is designed to internally flood and is constructed with
flood-resistant materials; and
            3.   It is used solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage.
         (b)   The above-noted alternative elevation methods are subject to the
following additional standards.
            1.   Design and certification. The structure’s design and as-built
condition must be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
as being in compliance with the general design standards of the state’s
Building Code and, specifically, that all electrical, heating, ventilation,
plumbing and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities must be at
or above the regulatory flood protection elevation or be designed to prevent
flood water from entering or accumulating within these components during times
of flooding.
            2.   Specific standards for above-grade, enclosed areas. Above-
grade, fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages must be
designed to internally flood and the design plans must stipulate:
               a.   The minimum area of openings in the walls where internal
flooding is to be sued as a flood-proofing technique. When openings are placed
in a structure’s walls to provide for entry of flood waters to equalize
pressures, the bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves or other
coverings or devices; provided that, they permit the automatic entry and exit
of flood waters; and
               b.   That the enclosed area will be designed of flood resistant
materials in accordance with the FP-3 or FP-4 classifications in the state’s
Building Code and shall be used solely for building access, parking of vehicles
or storage.
      (2)   Basements, as defined by §
908.02(H) of this chapter, shall be subject to the following.
         (a)   Residential basement construction shall not be allowed below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
         (b)   Non-residential basements may be allowed below the regulatory
flood protection elevation; provided, the basement is structurally dry flood-
proofed in accordance with division (D)(3) below.
      (3)   All areas of non-residential structures including basements to be
placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation shall be flood-proofed
in accordance with the structurally dry flood- proofing classifications in the
state’s Building Code. Structurally dry flood-proofing must meet the FP-1 or
FP-2 flood-proofing classification in the state’s Building Code and this shall
require making the structure water-tight with the walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the
capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the effects of
buoyancy. Structures flood-proofed to the FP-3 or FP-4 classification shall not
be permitted.
      (4)   When at any one time more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or other
similar materials is located on a parcel for such activities as on-site storage
landscaping and gravel operations, landfills, roads, dredge spoil disposal or
construction of flood control works, an erosion/sedimentation control plan must
be submitted unless the community is enforcing a state-approved shoreline
management ordinance. In the absence of a state-approved shoreland ordinance,
the plan must clearly specify methods to be used to stabilize the fill on site
for a flood event at a minimum of the 100-year or regional flood event. The
plan must be prepared and certified by a registered professional engineer or
other qualified individual acceptable to the governing body. The plan may
incorporate alternative procedures for removal of the material from the
floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists.
      (5)   Storage of materials and equipment:
         (a)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding, flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
         (b)   Storage of other materials or equipment may be allowed if
readily removable from the area within the time available after a flood warning
and in accordance with a plan approved by the governing body.
      (6)   The provisions for division (E) below shall also apply.
   (E)   Standards for all flood fringe uses.
      (1)   All new principal structures must have vehicular access at or above
an elevation not more than two feet below the regulatory flood protection
elevation. If a variance to this requirement is granted, the Board of
Adjustment must specify limitations on the period of use or occupancy of the
structure for times of flooding and only after determining that adequate flood
warning time and local flood emergency response procedures exist.
      (2)   Accessory land uses, such as yards, railroad tracks and parking
lots may be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation.
However, a permit for such facilities to be used by the employees or general
public shall not be granted in the absence of a flood warning system that
provides adequate time for evacuation if the area would be inundated to a depth
greater than two feet or be subject to flood velocities greater than four feet
per second upon occurrence of the regional flood.
      (3)   Measures shall be taken to minimize interference with normal plan
operations especially along streams having protracted flood duration. Certain
accessory land uses such as yards and parking lots may be at lower elevations
subject to requirements set out in division (E)(2) above. In considering permit
applications, due consideration shall be given to needs of an industry whose
business requires that it be located in floodplain areas.
      (4)   Fill shall be properly compacted and the slopes shall be properly
protects by the use of rip rap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for
removing the special flood hazard area designation for certain structures
properly elevated on fill above the 100-year flood elevation, FEMA’s
requirements incorporated specific fill compaction and side slope protection
standards for multi-structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should
be investigated prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of
special flood hazard area designation will be requested.
      (5)   Floodplain developments shall not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system where a floodway or other encroachment limit has not been
specified on the official zoning map.
      (6)   Standards for travel trailers and travel vehicles are contained in
§
908.09(C) of this chapter.
      (7)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists floatation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
§ 908.06 GENERAL FLOODPLAIN DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permissible uses.
      (1)   The uses listed in §
908.04(A) of this chapter shall be permitted uses.
      (2)   All other uses shall be subject to the floodway/flood fringe
evaluation criteria following division (B) below. Section
908.04 of this chapter shall apply if the proposed use is in the Floodway
District and §
908.05 of this chapter shall apply if the proposed use is in the Flood Fringe
District.
   (B)   Procedures for floodway and flood fringe determinations within the
General Floodplain District.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application for a conditional use permit for a
use within the General Floodplain District, the applicant shall be required to
furnish the following information as is deemed necessary by the Zoning
Administrator for the determination of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and whether the proposed use is within the Floodway or Flood Fringe
District:
         (a)   A typical valley cross-section showing the channel of the
stream, elevation of land areas adjoining each side of the channel, cross-
sectional areas to be occupied by the proposed development and high water
information;
         (b)   Plan (surface view) showing elevations or contours of the
ground; pertinent structure, fill or storage elevations; size, location and
spatial arrangement of all proposed and existing structures on the site;
location and elevations of streets; photographs showing existing land uses and
vegetation upstream and downstream; and soil type; and
         (c)   Profile showing the slope of the bottom of the channel or flow
line of the stream for at least 500 feet in either direction from the proposed
development.
      (2)   The applicant shall be responsible to submit one copy of the above
information to a designated engineer or other expert, person or agency for
technical assistance in determining whether the proposed use is in the Floodway
or Flood Fringe District and to determine the regulatory flood protection
elevation. Procedures consistent with Minn. Regs. 1983, parts 6120.5000 through
6120.6200 shall be followed in this expert evaluation. The designated engineer
or expert is strongly encouraged to discuss the proposed technical evaluation
methodology with the respective Department of Natural Resources’ area
hydrologist prior to commencing the analysis. The designated engineer or expert
shall:
         (a)   Estimate the peak discharge of the regional flood;
         (b)   Calculate the water surface profile of the regional flood based
hydraulic analysis of the stream channel and over bank areas; and
         (c)   Compute the floodway necessary to convey or store the regional
flood without increasing flood stages more than one-half foot. A lesser stage
increase than one-half foot shall be required if, as a result of the additional
stage increase, increased flood damages would result. An equal degree of
encroachment on both sides of the stream within the reach shall be assumed in
computing floodway boundaries.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall present the technical evaluation and
findings of the designated engineer or expert to the governing body. The
governing body must formally accept the technical evaluation and the
recommended Floodway and/or Flood Fringe District boundary or deny the permit
application. The governing body, prior to official action, may submit the
application and all supporting data and analyses to the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, the Department of Natural Resources or the Planning
Commission for review and comment. Once the floodway and flood fringe
boundaries have been determined, the governing body shall refer to the matter
back to the Zoning Administrator who shall process the permit application
consistent with the applicable provisions of §§
908.04 and
908.05 of this chapter.
§ 908.07 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Review criteria. No land shall be subdivided which is unsuitable for
the reason of flooding, inadequate drainage, water supply or sewage treatment
facilities. All lots within the floodplain districts shall contain a building
site at or above the regulatory flood protection elevations. All subdivisions
shall have water and sewer treatment facilities that comply with the provisions
of this chapter and have road access both to the subdivision and to the
individual building sites no lower than two feet below the regulatory flood
protection elevation. For all subdivisions in the floodplain, the floodway and
flood fringe boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevations and the
required elevation of all access roads shall be clearly labeled on all required
subdivision drawings and platting documents.
   (B)   Floodway/flood fringe determinations in the General Floodplain
District. In the General Floodplain District, applicants shall provide the
information required in §
908.06(B) of this chapter to determine the 100-year flood elevation, the
Floodway and Flood Fringe District boundaries and the regulatory flood
protection elevation for the subdivision site.
   (C)   Removal of special flood hazard area designations. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has established criteria for removing the
special flood hazard area designation of certain structures properly elevated
on fill above the 100-year flood elevation. FEMA’s requirements incorporate
specific fill compacting and side slope protection standards for multi-
structure or multi-lot developments. These standards should be investigated
prior to the initiation of site preparation if a change of special flood hazard
area designation will be requested.
§ 908.08 PUBLIC UTILITIES, RAILROADS, ROADS AND BRIDGES.
   (A)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, sewer and water supply systems to be located in the floodplain
shall be flood-proofed in accordance with the state’s Building Code or elevated
to above the regulatory flood protections elevations.
   (B)   Public transportation facilities.
      (1)   Railroad tracks, roads and bridges to be located within the
floodplain shall comply with §§
908.04 and
908.05 of this chapter. Elevation to the regulatory flood protection elevation
shall be provided where failure or interruption of these transportation
facilities would be result in danger to the public health or safety or where
such facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area.
      (2)   Minor or auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower
elevation where failure or interruption of transportation services would not
endanger the public health or safety.
   (C)   On-site sewage treatment and water supply systems. Where public
utilities are not provided:
      (1)   On-site water supply systems must be designed to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems; and
      (2)   New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood water into the systems
and discharges from the systems into flood waters and they shall not be subject
to impairment or contamination during times of flooding. Any sewage treatment
system designed in accordance with the state’s current statewide standards for
on-site sewage treatment systems shall be determined to be in compliance with
this division (C).
§ 908.09 MANUFACTURED HOMES AND MANUFACTURED HOME PARKS; PLACEMENT OF TRAVEL
TRAILERS AND TRAVEL VEHICLES.
   (A)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing manufactured
home parks shall be subject to the provisions placed or subdivisions by §
908.07 of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   The placement of new or replacement manufactured homes in
existing manufactured home parks or on individual lots of record that are
located in floodplain districts will be treated as a new structure and may be
placed only if elevated in compliance with §
908.05 of this chapter. If vehicular road access for pre-existing manufactured
home parks is not provided in accordance with §
908.05(E)(1) of this chapter, then replacement manufactured homes will not be
allowed until the property owner(s) develops a flood warning emergency plan
acceptable to the governing body.
      (2)   All manufactured homes must be securely anchored to an adequately
anchored foundation system that resists flotation, collapse and lateral
movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not to be limited to, use
of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
addition to applicable state or local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.
   (C)   Travel trailers and travel vehicles that do not meet the exemption
criteria specified in division (C)(1) below shall be subject to the provisions
of this chapter and as specifically spelled out in divisions (C)(3) and (C)(4)
below.
      (1)   Exemption. Travel trailers and travel vehicles are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter if they are placed in any of the areas listed in
division (C)(4) below and, further, they meet the following criteria:
         (a)   Have current licenses required for highway use;
         (b)   Are highway ready meaning on wheels or the internal jacking
system, are attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities
commonly used in campgrounds and trailer parks and the travel trailer/travel
vehicle has no permanent structural type additions attached to it; and
         (c)   The travel trailer or travel vehicle and associated use must be
permissible in any pre-existing, underlying zoning use district.
      (2)   Areas exempted for placement of travel/recreational vehicles.
         (a)   Individual lots or parcels of record;
         (b)   Existing commercial recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds;
and
         (c)   Existing condominium type associations.
      (3)   Exempted. Travel trailers and travel vehicles exempted in division
(C)(1) above lose this exemption when development occurs on the parcel
exceeding $500 for a structural addition to the travel trailer/travel vehicle
or an accessory structure such as a garage or storage building. The travel
trailer/travel vehicle and all additions and accessory structures will then be
treated as a new structure and shall be subject to the elevation/flood-proofing
requirements and the use of land restrictions specified in §§
908.04 and
908.05 of this chapter.
      (4)   New locations. New commercial travel trailer or travel vehicle
parks or campgrounds and new residential type subdivisions and condominium
associations and the expansion of any existing similar use exceeding five units
or dwelling sites shall be subject to the following.
         (a)   Any new or replacement travel trailer or travel vehicle will be
allowed in the Floodway or Flood Fringe Districts; provided, said trailer or
vehicle and its contents are placed on fill above the regulatory flood
protection elevation and proper elevated road access to the site exists in
accordance with division (C)(1) above. No fill placed in the floodway to meet
the requirements of this division (C)(4) shall increase flood stages of the
100-year or regional flood.
         (b)   All new or replacement travel trailers or travel vehicles not
meeting the criteria of division (C)(4)(a) above may, as an alternative, be
allowed as a conditional use if in accordance with the following provisions and
the provisions of §
908.10(D) of this chapter. The applicant must submit an emergency plan for the
safe evacuation of all vehicles and people during the 100-year flood. Said plan
shall be prepared by a registered engineer or other qualified individual and
shall demonstrate that adequate time and personnel exist to carry out the
evacuation. All attendant sewage and water facilities for new or replacement
travel trailers or other recreational vehicles must be protected or constructed
so as to not be impaired or contaminated during times of flooding in accordance
with this division (C).
§ 908.10 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator. A Zoning Administrator or other official
designated by the governing body shall administer and enforce this chapter. If
the Zoning Administrator finds a violation of the provisions of this chapter
the Zoning Administrator shall notify the person responsible for such violation
in accordance with the procedures stated in §
908.12 of this chapter.
   (B)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   Permit required. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter shall be secured prior to the
erection, addition, alteration of any building, structure or portion thereof;
prior to the use or change of use of a building, structure or land; prior to
the change or extension of a non-conforming use; and prior to the placement of
fill, excavation of materials or the storage of materials or equipment within
the floodplain.
      (2)   Application for permit. Application for a permit shall be made in
duplicate to the Zoning Administrator on forms furnished by the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following where applicable: plans in
duplicate drawn to scale, showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the lot; existing or proposed structures, fill or storage of
materials; and the location of the foregoing in relation to the stream channel.
      (3)   State and federal permits. Prior to granting a permit or processing
an application for a conditional use permit or variance, the Zoning
Administrator shall determine that the applicant has obtained all necessary
state and federal permits.
      (4)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered or non-
conforming use. It shall be unlawful to use, occupy or permit the use or
occupancy of any building or premises or part thereof hereafter created,
erected, changed, converted, altered or enlarged in its use or structure until
a certificate of zoning compliance shall have been issued by the Zoning
Administrator, stating that the use of the building or land conforms to the
requirements of this chapter.
      (5)   Authorization. Construction and use to be as provided on
applications, plans, permits, variances and certificates of zoning compliance,
permits, conditional use permits or certificates of zoning compliance issued on
the basis of approved plans and applications authorize only the use,
arrangement, and construction set forth in such approved plans and
applications, and no other use, arrangement or construction. Any use,
arrangement or construction at variance with that authorized shall be deemed a
violation of this chapter and punishable by §
908.12 of this chapter.
      (6)   Certification. The applicant shall be required to submit
certification by a registered professional engineer, registered architect or
registered land surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were
accomplished in compliance with the provisions of this chapter. Flood-proofing
measures shall be certified by a registered professional engineer or registered
architect.
      (7)   Record of first floor elevation. The Zoning Administrator shall
maintain a record of the elevation of the lowest floor (including basement) of
all new structures and alterations or additions to existing structures in the
floodplain. The Zoning Administrator shall also maintain a record of the
elevation to which structures or alterations and additions to structures are
flood-proofed.
   (C)   Board of Adjustment.
      (1)   Rules. The Board of Adjustment shall adopt rules for the conduct of
business and may exercise all of the powers conferred on such boards by state
law.
      (2)   Administrative review. The Board shall hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged there is error in any order, requirement decision or
determination made by an administrative official in the enforcement or
administration of this chapter.
      (3)   Variances. The Board may authorize upon appeal in specific cases
such relief or variance from the terms of this chapter as will not be contrary
to the public interest and only for those circumstances such as hardship,
practical difficulties or circumstances unique to the property under
consideration, as provided for in the respective enabling legislation for
planning and zoning for cities or counties as appropriate. In the granting of
such variance, the Board of Adjustment shall clearly identify in writing the
specific conditions that existed consistent with the criteria specified in the
respective enabling legislation that justified the granting of the variance. No
variance shall have the effect of allowing in any district uses prohibited in
that district, permit a lower degree of flood protection than the regulatory
flood protection elevation for the particular area, or permit standards lower
than those required by state law.
      (4)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Board of Adjustment of an appeal
from a decision of the Zoning Administrator, or an application for a variance,
the Board shall fix a reasonable time for a hearing and give due notice to the
parties in interest as specified by law. The Board shall submit by mail to the
Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the application for proposed
variances sufficiently in advance so that the Commissioner will receive at
least ten days’ notice of the hearing.
      (5)   Decision. The Board shall arrive at a decision on such appeal or
variance within 14 days. In passing upon an appeal, the Board may, so long as
such action is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, reverse or
affirm, wholly or in part, or modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Administrator or other public official. It shall
make its decision in writing, setting forth the findings of fact and the
reasons for its decisions. In granting a variance, the Board may prescribe
appropriate conditions and safeguards such as those specified in division (D)
(6) below, which are in conformity with the purposes of this chapter. Violation
of such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which
the variance is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter punishable
under §
908.12 of this chapter. A copy of all decisions granting variances shall be
forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources within ten days of
action.
      (6)   Appeals. Appeals from any decision of the Board may be made, and as
specified in this community’s official controls and also state statutes.
      (7)   Flood insurance notice and record keeping.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant for a
variance that:
            1.   The issuance of a variance to construct a structure below the
base flood level will result in increased premium rates for flood insurance up
to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage; and
            2.   Such construction below the 100-year or regional flood level
increases risks to life and property.
         (b)   Such notification shall be maintained with a record of all
variance actions. A community shall maintain a record of all variance actions,
including justification for their issuance and report such variances issued in
its annual or biennial report submitted to the Administrator of the National
Flood Insurance Program.
   (D)   Conditional uses. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall hear and
decide applications for conditional uses permissible under this chapter.
Applications shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator who shall forward
the application to the city’s Planning and Zoning Commission for consideration.
      (1)   Hearings. Upon filing with the Planning and Zoning Commission an
application for a conditional use permit, the Zoning Administrator shall submit
by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources a copy of the application for
proposed conditional use sufficiently in advance so that the Commissioner will
receive at least ten days’ notice of the hearing.
      (2)   Decisions. The Planning and Zoning Commission shall arrive at a
decision on a conditional use within 14 days. In granting a conditional use
permit, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall prescribe appropriate
condition and safeguards, in addition to those specified in division (D)(6)
below, which are in conformity with the purposes of this chapter. Violations of
such conditions and safeguards, when made a part of the terms under which the
conditional use permit is granted, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter
punishable under §
908.12 of this chapter. A copy of all decisions granting conditional use
permits shall be forwarded by mail to the Commissioner of Natural Resources
within ten days of such action.
      (3)   Procedures to be followed by the Planning and Zoning Commission in
passing on conditional use permit applications within all floodplain districts.
         (a)   Require the applicant to furnish such of the following
information and additional information as deemed necessary by the Planning and
Zoning Commission for determining the suitability of the particular site for
the proposed use:
            1.   Plans in triplicate drawn to scale showing the nature,
location dimensions and elevation of the lot, existing or proposed structures,
fill, storage of materials, flood-proofing measures and the relationship of the
above to the location of the stream channel; and
            2.   Specifications for building construction and materials, flood-
proofing, filling, dredging, grading, channel improvement, storage of
materials, water supply and sanitary facilities.
         (b)   Transmit one copy of the information described in division (D)
(3)(a) above to a designated engineer or other expert person or agency for
technical assistance, where necessary, in evaluating the proposed project in
relation to flood heights and velocities, the seriousness of flood damage to
the use, the adequacy of the plans for protection and other technical matters.
         (c)   Based upon the technical evaluation of the designated engineer
or expert, the Planning and Zoning Commission shall determine the specific
flood hazard at the site and evaluate the suitability of the proposed use in
relation to the flood hazard.
      (4)   Factors upon which the decision of the Planning and Zoning
Commission shall be based. In passing upon conditional use applications, the
Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider all relevant factors specified in
other subdivisions of this chapters, and:
         (a)   The danger to life and property due to increased flood heights
or velocities caused by encroachments;
         (b)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others or the may block bridges, culverts or other
hydraulic structures;
         (c)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems and the ability
of these systems to prevent disease, contamination and unsanitary conditions;
         (d)   The susceptibility of the proposed facility, and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
         (e)   The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility
to the community;
         (f)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location;
         (g)   The availability of alternative locations not subject to
flooding for the proposed use;
         (h)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development
and development anticipated in the foreseeable future;
         (i)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan
and floodplain management program for the area;
         (j)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
         (k)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site; and
         (l)   Such other factors which are relevant to the purposes of this
chapter.
      (5)   Time for acting on application. The Planning and Zoning Commission
shall act on an application in the manner described above within 14 days from
receiving the application; except that, where additional information is
required pursuant to division (D)(4) above. The Planning and Zoning Commission
shall render a written decision within 14 days from the receipt of such
additional information.
      (6)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. Upon consideration
of the factors listed above and the purpose of this chapter, the Planning and
Zoning Commission shall attach such conditions to the granting of conditional
use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this chapter. Such
conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   Modification of waste treatment and water supply facilities;
         (b)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy and operation;
         (c)   Imposition of operational controls. sureties and deed
restrictions;
         (d)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees and other protective measures; and
         (e)   Flood-proofing measures, in accordance with the state’s Building
Code and this chapter. The applicant shall submit a plan or document certified
by a registered professional engineer or architect that the flood-proofing
measures are consistent with the regulatory flood protection elevation and
associated flood factors for the particular area.
§ 908.11 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   A structure or the use of a structure or premises which was lawful before
the passage or amendment of this chapter, but which is not in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
conditions.
   (A)   No such use shall be expanded, changed, enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its non-conformity.
   (B)   Any alteration or addition to a non-conforming structure or non-
conforming use which would result in increasing the flood damage potential of
that structure or use shall be protected to the regulatory flood protection
elevation in accordance with any of the elevation on fill or flood-proofing
techniques (i.e., FP-1 through FP-4 flood-proofing classifications) allowable
in the state’s Building Code, except as further restricted in division (H)(3)
below.
   (C)   The cost of any structural alterations or additions to any non-
conforming structure over the life of the structure shall not exceed 50% of the
market value of the structure unless the conditions of this division (C) are
satisfied. The cost of all structural alterations and additions constructed
since the adoption of the community’s initial floodplain controls must be
calculated into today’s current cost which will include all costs such as
construction materials and a reasonable cost placed on all manpower or labor.
If the current cost of all previous and proposed alterations and additions
exceeds 50% of the current market value of the structure, then the structure
must meet the standards of §§
908.04 or
908.05 of this chapter for new structures depending upon whether the structure
is in the floodway or flood fringe, respectively.
   (D)   If any non-conforming use is discontinued for more than one year, any
future use of the building premises shall conform to this chapter. The assessor
shall notify the Zoning Administrator in writing of instances of non-conforming
uses which have been discontinued for a period of more than one year.
   (E)   If any non-conforming use or structure is destroyed by any means,
including floods, to an extent of 50% or more of its market value at the time
of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new uses
or new structures in §§
908.04,
908.05 or
908.06 of this chapter will apply depending upon whether the use or structure
is in the Floodway, Flood Fringe or General Floodplain District, respectively.
§ 908.12 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Violation of the provisions of this chapter or failure to comply with
any of its requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards
established in connect on with grants of variances or conditional uses) shall
constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable as defined by law.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation. Such actions
may include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   In responding to a suspected ordinance violation, the Zoning
Administrator and local government may utilize the full array of enforcement
actions available to it including, but not limited to, prosecution and fines,
injunctions, after-the-fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a
request to the National Flood Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance
availability to the guilty party. The community must act in good faith to
enforce these official controls and to correct ordinance violations to the
extent possible so as not to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood
Insurance Program;
      (2)   When an ordinance violation is either discovered by or brought to
the attention of the Zoning Administrator, the Zoning Administrator shall
immediately investigate the situation and document the nature and extent of the
violation of the official control. As soon as is reasonably possible, this
information, will be submitted to the appropriate Department of Natural
Resources and Federal Emergency Management Agency Regional Office along with
the community’s plan of action to correct the violation to the degree possible;
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the suspected party of the
requirements of this chapter and all other official controls and the nature and
extent of the suspected violation of these controls. If the structure and/or
use is under construction or development, the Zoning Administrator may order
the construction or development immediately halted until a proper permit or
approval is granted by the community. If the construction or development is
already completed, then the Zoning Administrator may either:
         (a)   Issue an order identifying the corrective actions that must be
made within a specified time period to bring the use or structure into
compliance with the official controls; or
         (b)   Notify the responsible party to apply for an after-the-fact
permit/development approval within a specified period of time not to exceed 30
days.
      (4)   If the responsible party does not appropriately respond to the
Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each additional day
that lapses shall constitute an additional violation of this chapter and shall
be prosecuted accordingly. The Zoning Administrator shall also upon the lapse
of the specified response period notify the landowner to restore the land to
the condition which existed prior to the violation of this chapter.
§ 908.13 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The floodplain designation on the official zoning map shall not be
removed from floodplain areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in
error or that the area has been filled to or above the elevation of the
regional flood and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special
exceptions to this rule may be permitted by the Commissioner of Natural
Resources if he or she determines that, through other measures, lands are
adequately protected for the intended use.
   (B)   All amendments to this chapter, including amendments to the official
zoning map, must be submitted to and approved by the Commissioner of Natural
Resources prior to adoption. Changes in the official zoning map must meet the
Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) Technical Conditions and Criteria
and must receive prior FEMA approval before adoption. The Commissioner of
Natural Resources must be given ten days’ written notice of all hearings to
consider an amendment to this chapter and said notice shall include a draft of
the ordinance amendment or technical study under consideration.
PART IX. SUBDIVISIONS
§ 909.01 TITLE.
   This section shall be known and may be cited as ‘’Henderson Subdivision
Ordinance Regulations’‘.
§ 909.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The process of dividing raw land into separate parcels for other uses
including residential, industrial and commercial sites, is one of the most
important factors in the growth of any community. Once the land has been
subdivided and the streets, homes and other structures have been constructed,
the basic character of this permanent addition to the community has become
firmly established. It is, therefore, in the interest of the general public,
the developer and the future landowners that subdivisions be conceived,
designed and developed in accordance with the highest possible standards of
excellence.
   (B)   All subdivisions of land hereafter submitted for approval shall fully
comply, in all respects with the regulations set forth herein. It is the
purpose of these regulations to:
      (1)   Encourage well planned, efficient and attractive subdivisions by
establishing adequate standards for design and constriction;
      (2)   Provide for the health and safety of residents by requiring the
necessary services, such as properly designed streets and adequate sewage and
water service;
      (3)   Place the cost of improvements against those benefitting from the
construction project;
      (4)   Secure the rights of the public with respect to public land and
waters;
      (5)   Improve land records by establishing standards for surveys and
plats; and
      (6)   Protect the environmentally sensitive areas in the city.
§ 909.03 RULES AND DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules. Words used in the present tense include the past and future
tense; the singular includes the plural and the plural includes the singular;
the word ‘’shall’‘ is mandatory, and the words ‘’should’‘ and ‘’may’‘ are
permissive. In the case of conflicting provisions in the text of these
regulations, the more restrictive shall apply.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this part, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ALLEY. A narrow public right-of-way, which normally affords a secondary
means of vehicular access to abutting property.
      ATTORNEY. The attorney employed by the city unless otherwise stated.
      BLOCKS. The enclosed area within the perimeter of roads, property lines
or boundaries of the subdivision.
      BOULEVARD. The portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line
and the property line.
      CITY. The City of Henderson.
      CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. A subdivision development planned and constructed so
as to group housing units into patterns while providing a unified network of
open space and wooded areas, and meeting the overall density regulations of
this chapter.
      COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A compilation of goals, policy statements, standards,
programs and maps for guiding the physical, social and economic development of
the city and its surroundings and includes any unit or part of such plan, which
is separately adopted, and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof.
      CONCEPT PLAN or SKETCH PLAN. A generalized plan of a proposed subdivision
indicating lot layout, streets, park areas and water and sewer systems
presented to the city officials at the pre-application meeting.
      CONTOUR MAP. A map on which irregularities of land surface are shown by
lines connecting points of equal elevations. Contour interval is the vertical
height between contour lines.
      COPY. A print or reproduction made from a tracing.
      COUNTY. Sibley County, Minnesota.
      DEVELOPMENT. The act of building structures and installing site
improvements.
      DRAINAGE COURSE. A watercourse or indenture for the drainage of surface
water.
      EASEMENT. A granting of land by an owner for a specific use by persons
other than the owner.
      ENGINEER. The registered engineer or consulting firm hired or employed by
the city unless otherwise stated.
      FINAL PLAT. The final map drawing or chart on which the subdivider’s plan
of subdivision is presented to the City Council for approval, and if approved,
will be submitted to the County Recorder.
      GOVERNING BODY. Henderson City Council.
      KEY MAP. A map drawn to a comparatively small scale, which defines and
shows the area proposed to be platted and the areas surrounding it to a given
distance.
      LOT. Lot, parcel or portion of land in a subdivision or plat of land,
separated, from other parcels or portions by description as on a subdivision or
record of survey may, for the purpose of sale or lease or separate use thereof.
      LOT, BUTT. A lot located on the end of a block excluding the two corner
lots.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot located at the intersection of two streets; and the
interior angle of the intersections do not exceed 135 degrees.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot that has a front lot line abutting on one
street and a back or rear lot line abutting another parallel street.
      LOT, THROUGH. Any lot other than a corner lot that abuts more than one
street.
      LOT, DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance between the front lot line and
the rear lot line.
      LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot. Except where any portion of a
lot extends into the right-of-way of proposed public right-of-way, the line of
such right-of-way shall be the LOT LINE.
      LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between the side of lines of the lot,
measured parallel to the front line of the lot at the setback line.
      METES AND BOUNDS DESCRIPTION. A description for real property which is
not described by reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described
by starting at a known point and describing the bearing and distances of the
lines forming the boundaries of the property or delineating a fractional
portion of a section, lot or area by describing lines or portions thereof.
      MINIMUM SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS. The guides, principles and
specifications for the preparation of subdivision plats indicating, among other
things, the minimum and maximum dimensions of the various elements set forth in
the plan.
      MINOR SUBDIVISION. A subdivision of small size situated in a locality
where conditions are well defined that may be exempt from the strict
regulations of this chapter.
      OWNER. An individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity having sufficient proprietary
interest in the land sought to be subdivided or to commence and maintain
proceedings to subdivide the same under these regulations.
      PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public right-of-way across or within a block intended
to be used by pedestrians.
      PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate or partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A residential or commercial development
whereby buildings are grouped or clustered in and around common open space
areas in accordance with a pre-arranged site plan, and where the common open
space is owned by the homeowners and maintained by a homeowners association.
      PLAT. The drawing or map of a subdivision prepared for filing of record
pursuant to M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be amended from time to time, and
containing all elements and requirements set forth in applicable local
regulations adopted pursuant to M.S. § 462.358 and Ch. 505, as they may be
amended from time to time.
      PRELIMINARY APPROVAL. Official action taken by a municipality on an
application to create a subdivision which establishes the rights and
obligations set forth in M.S. § 462.358, as it may be amended from time to
time, and the applicable provisions of this chapter.
      PRELIMINARY PLAT. The preliminary map, drawing or chart indicating the
proposed layout of the subdivision to be submitted to the Planning Commission
and City Council for their consideration.
      PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts entered into between private parties and
constituting a restriction on the use of private property within a subdivision
for the benefit of the property owners, and to provide mutual protection
against undesirable aspects of development which would tend to impair stability
of values.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. Public land used or to be used as a street or highway,
including alleys and boulevards.
      SKETCH PLAN. A sketch of a proposed subdivision showing the information
specified in §
909.05 of this chapter.
      STREET. A public way for vehicular traffic, whether designed as a street,
highway, thoroughfare, arterial parkway, throughway road, avenue, lane, place
or however otherwise designated.
         (a)   ARTERIAL STREET. A street or highway with access restrictions
designed to carry large volumes of traffic between various sections of the city
and beyond.
         (b)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street which carries traffic from local
streets to arterials.
         (c)   CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A turn-around with only one outlet.
         (d)   LOCAL STREET. A street of limited continuity use primarily for
access to the abutting properties and the local need of a neighborhood.
         (e)   PRIVATE STREET. A street serving as vehicular access to one or
more parcels of land which is not dedicated to the public but is owned by one
or more private parties.
         (f)   SERVICE STREET. Marginal access street, or a minor street, which
is parallel or perpendicular and adjacent to a thoroughfare providing access to
abutting properties, and provides protection from through traffic.
      STREET WIDTH. For the purpose of this chapter, the shortest distance
between the lines delineating the right-of-way.
      SUBDIVIDER. Any person commencing proceedings under this chapter to
effect a subdivision of land hereunder for himself or for another.
      SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land into two or more lots or
parcels, any of which resultant parcels is less than two and one-half acres in
area, for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development or, if a
new street is involved, any division of a parcel of land. The term includes re-
subdivision, and when appropriate to the context, shall relate to the process
of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
      SURVEYOR. A person duly registered as a land surveyor by the state.
      TRACING. A plat or map drawn on transparent paper or cloth which can be
reproduced by using regular reproduction procedure.
§ 909.04 SCOPE.
   (A)   General. The rules and regulations governing plats and subdivision of
land obtained herein shall apply within the city. Except in the case of re-
subdivision, this chapter shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of
a subdivision recorded in the office of the County Recorder prior to the
effective date of this chapter, nor is it intended by this chapter to repeal,
annul or in any other way impair of interfere with existing provisions of other
laws or ordinances, except those specifically repealed by, or in conflict with
this chapter, or with restrictive covenants running with the land. Where this
chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the land than is imposed or required
by existing provisions of federal, state or municipal laws, statutes,
ordinances or regulations, then provisions of this chapter shall control.
   (B)   Amendments. The provisions of this chapter may be amended by the City
Council at any time at is discretion.
   (C)   Restrictions on filing and recording conveyances. No conveyance of
land in which the land conveyed is described by metes and bounds or by
reference to an unapproved registered land survey or to an unapproved plat made
after this chapter becomes effective, shall be made or recorded unless the
parcel described in the conveyance:
      (1)   Was a separate parcel of record at the date of adoption of this
chapter;
      (2)   Was the subject of a written agreement to convey property, and was
entered into prior to such time;
      (3)   Was a separate parcel of not less than one and one-half acres in
area and 150 feet in width as of 1-1-1966;
      (4)   Was a separate parcel of not less than five acres in area and 300
feet in width on the effective date of this chapter; or
      (5)   Such parcel complies with all requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Platting. Except as specifically set forth in these regulations any
subdivision creating parcels, tracts or lots after the adoption for these
regulations shall be platted in accordance with M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be
amended from time to time.
   (E)   Public improvement. Where a parcel of land is being subdivided and a
plat is required, no public improvements shall be installed, undertaken or
constructed unless the final plat is approved and no such services (i.e.,
electric, sewer and water, streets and the like) shall be provided until
approval of the final plat is granted and such plat has been duly recorded.
§ 909.05 ADMINISTRATION OF THIS PART.
   (A)   Plat presentation procedures. Except as set forth in §§
909.04 and
909.10 this chapter, no real property within the jurisdiction of this chapter
shall be subdivided and offered for sale or a plat recorded until a preliminary
plat and a final plat of the proposed subdivision have been reviewed by city
staff, and the Planning Commission and until the final plat has been approved
by the City Council. Planned unit developments (PUDs), shall be presented in
the same manner as other plats for review by city staff and the Planning
Commission with the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to the preparation of a preliminary
plat, the subdivider or owner shall meet with the appropriate city officials,
as determined by the city, in order to be made fully aware of all applicable
ordinances, regulations and plans in the area to be subdivided. At this time
and at subsequent informal meetings such as with the Planning Commission, the
subdivider shall submit a general sketch plan of the proposed subdivision and
preliminary proposals for the provision of water supply and waste disposal, as
well as other utilities locations. The sketch plan can be presented in simple
form, but must show that consideration has been given to the relationship of
the proposed subdivision to existing community facilities that would serve it,
or to the neighboring subdivisions and developments and to the natural
resources and topography of the site.
   (C)   Preliminary plat.
      (1)   After the pre-application meeting, the subdivider shall submit
eight copies of the preliminary plat to the Zoning Administrator at least 14
days before the Planning Commission meeting at which such plat is to be
considered. The subdivider shall include a written application and statement
along with the preliminary plat describing the proposed subdivision. The
written statement shall include the anticipated development of the existing
natural features and vegetation, and any other information required by this
chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall submit one copy of the preliminary
plat to each Planning Commission member, and the City Engineer, and any other
appropriate city officials. One copy shall also be submitted to the County
Engineer if the plat abuts a county road and one copy to the state’s Department
of Transportation if the plat abuts a state highway, for review and comment as
required by M.S. § 505.03, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (3)   The City Engineer and Zoning Administrator and other appropriate
city officials shall review the preliminary plat and shall transmit a report of
their findings and recommendations, together with any supporting material to
the Planning Commission prior to the meeting at which such plat is to be
considered. The subdivider shall be required to reimburse the city for all
costs for extra outside consulting services that the city staff, Planning
Commission and City Council deem necessary for determining the adequacy of the
plan.
      (4)   Within 30 days after the plat has been filed and after reports and
certifications have been received as requested, the Planning Commission shall
hold a public hearing on the preliminary plat. Notice of the time and place
thereof shall be published once in the official newspaper at least ten days
before the day of the hearing, the Planning Commission shall make its report to
the City Council.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall forward to the City Council a
favorable, conditional or unfavorable report and said report shall contain a
statement of findings and recommendations.
      (6)   The preliminary application shall be approved or disapproved by the
City Council within 120 days following the filing with the city and application
complying with this chapter, unless an extension of the review period has been
agreed to by the applicant. If the city fails to preliminarily approve or
disapprove an application within the review period and/or extensions thereof,
the application shall be deemed approved, and upon demand, the city shall
execute a certificate to that effect. If the City Council disapproves of the
preliminary plat, the grounds for any such disapproval shall be set forth in
the minutes of the City Council meeting and reported to the owner and/or
subdivider.
      (7)   During the intervening time between approval of the preliminary
plat and the final plat, the subdivider must submit acceptable engineering
plans for all required improvements.
      (8)   In the case of all subdivisions, the Planning Commission shall
recommend denial of and/or the City Council may deny approval of a preliminary
or final plat if it makes any of the following findings:
         (a)   The proposed subdivision, including the design, is in conflict
with any adopted component of the Policy Plan, Comprehensive Plan, and/or
Zoning Ordinance of the city;
         (b)   The physical characteristics of the site, including, but not
limited to, topography, vegetation, susceptibility to erosion and siltation,
susceptibility to flooding, water storage, drainage and retention, are such
that the site is not suitable for the type of development of use contemplated;
         (c)   The site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of
development;
         (d)   The design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements is
likely to cause substantial environmental damage;
         (e)   The design of the subdivision or the types of improvements are
likely to cause serious public health damage; and
         (f)   The design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
conflict with easements of record.
   (D)   Final plat.
      (1)   The subdivider shall engage a registered land surveyor to prepare a
final plat, which shall meet all the requirements of M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (2)   The subdivider may request approval of such portion of the
preliminary plat that the subdivider proposes to develop at one time by filing
a final plat limited to such portion with the City Clerk. The entire area of
the preliminary plat shall be platted in final form within a period of five
years from the date of preliminary plat approval, or that portion of the
preliminary plat not so finally platted shall become null and void and
disapproved.
      (3)   The subdivider shall submit eight copies of the final plat to the
zoning plat to the Zoning Administrator at least three weeks before the
Planning Commission meeting at which such plat is to be considered. The
subdivider shall submit the final plat within one year of preliminary plat
approval; otherwise, such approval shall become null and void under this
section.
      (4)   The final plat shall incorporate all changes required by the city,
County Engineer and State Department of Transportation, but in all other
respects, it shall conform to the preliminary plat as approved.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall transmit one copy each of the final
plat to the Planning Commission, City Engineer, City Attorney and other
appropriate city officials.
      (6)   The city staff shall review the final plat and shall transmit
reports of their recommendations to the Planning Commission before the meeting
at which such plat is to be considered.
      (7)   The Planning Commission shall review the final plat and consider
reports of city staff including its Engineer, Attorney and other appropriate
municipal employees. The Planning Commission shall then submit its
recommendations to the Zoning Administrator who shall within 30 days after the
subdivider’s request for approval forward such recommendations to the City
Council.
      (8)   The City Council shall approve or disapprove of the final plat
within 30 days after receiving the recommendations of the Planning Commission.
The City Clerk shall notify the subdivider of the Council’s action.
      (9)   The city shall approve the final plat within 60 days of the
subdivider’s request for approval if the applicant has complied with all
conditions and requirements of this chapter and all conditions and requirements
upon which the preliminary plat was approved, either through performance or
agreements assuring proper compliance with the city’s requirements. If the city
fails to certify final approval within the time frame, and if the applicant has
complied with all conditions or requirements, the final plat shall be deemed
approved and upon demand, the city shall execute a certificate to that effect.
      (10)   Upon approval of the final plat by the city, the subdivider shall
record such final plat with the County Recorder within 60 days after approval.
Otherwise, the approval of the final plat shall be considered void. The
subdivider shall, within 30 days of recording, furnish the City Clerk with a
reproducible print (i.e., a photo, Mylar or an original) of the final plat
showing evidence of the recording.
   (E)   Effect of subdivision approval. For one year following preliminary
approval and for three years following final approval, unless the subdivider
and the city agree otherwise, no amendment to the city’s comprehensive plan or
Zoning Ordinance shall apply to or affect the use, development, density, lot
size, lot layout or dedication or platting required or permitted by the
approved application. Thereafter, the city may extend the period by agreement
with the subdivider. This may require submission of a new application unless
substantial financial damage as a consequence of the requirement to submit a
new application. In connection with a subdivision involving planned and staged
development, the city may by resolution or agreement, grant the rights referred
to herein for periods of time longer than three years which it determines to be
reasonable and appropriate.
   (F)   Disclosure by seller; purchaser’s action for damages.
      (1)   A person conveying a new parcel of land which, or the plat for
which, has not previously been filed or recorded, and which is part of or would
constitute a subdivision to which this chapter applies shall attach the
instrument of conveyance either:
         (a)   A recordable verification by the City Clerk that this chapter
does not apply, or that the subdivision has been approved by the city, or that
the provisions of this chapter have been waived by resolution of the city
because compliance will create an unnecessary hardship and failure to comply
will not interfere with the purpose of this chapter; or
         (b)   A statement which names and identifies the location of the
appropriate city offices and advises the grantee that municipal subdivision and
zoning regulations may restrict the use or restrict or prohibit the development
of the parcel, or construction on it, and that the division of taxes and the
filing or recording of the conveyance may be prohibited without prior
recordable certification of approval, of non-applicability or waiver from the
municipality.
      (2)   In any action commenced by a buyer of such a parcel against the
seller thereof, the misrepresentation of or the failure to disclose material
facts in accordance with this section shall be grounds for damages. If the
buyer establishes a right to damages, a district court hearing the matter may,
in its discretion, also award to the buyer an amount sufficient to pay all or
any part of the costs incurred in maintaining the action, including reasonable
attorney fees, and an amount for punitive damages not exceeding 5% of the
purchase price of the land.
§ 909.06 DATA FOR PRELIMINARY AND FINAL PLATS.
   (A)   Data for preliminary plat. Data required to be included or provided
with the preliminary plat is as follows:
      (1)   Identification and description.
         (a)   Proposed name of subdivision and street names, which shall not
duplicate or be similar in pronunciation or spelling to the name of any plat
heretofore recorded in the county unless approved in advance by the Planning
Commission or County Recorder;
         (b)   Location by section, township, range and by legal description;
         (c)   Names and addresses of the record owner and any agent having
control of the land, subdivider, land surveyor, engineer and designer of the
plat;
         (d)   Graphic scale not less than one inch to 100 feet;
         (e)   Show north direction point on plan;
         (f)   Key map including area within one mile radius of plat;
         (g)   Date plat prepared or drafted; and
         (h)   A current abstract of title or a registered property certificate
along with any unrecorded documents, and opinion of title by the subdivider’s
attorney.
      (2)   Existing conditions in proposed tract.
         (a)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision, clearly indicated to a
close degree of accuracy;
         (b)   Existing zoning classifications for land within and abutting the
subdivision including floodplain and shoreland districts, if applicable;
         (c)   A general statement of the approximate acreage and dimensions of
the lots;
         (d)   Location, right-of-way widths and names of existing or platted
streets, or other public ways, parks and other public lands, permanent
buildings and structures, easements, sections and corporate lines within the
plat;
         (e)   Boundary lines of adjoining non-subdivided or subdivided land or
lands, identified by name and ownership, including all contiguous land owned or
controlled by the subdivider;
         (f)   Topographic data, including contours at vertical intervals of
two feet, watercourses, marshes, rock outcrops, power transmission poles and
lines and other significant features may also be required to be shown;
         (g)   An analysis of the soils. The city may require soil borings if
deemed necessary by the Planning Commission or City Council;
         (h)   If applicable, limits of the floodplain, floodway and flood
fringe areas;
         (i)   Existing zoning and land use in the area within 300 feet of the
boundaries of the tract; and
         (j)   Plans for water supply, sewage disposal and drainage. Location
and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground
facilities within the preliminary plat area. Such data as existing grades,
invert elevations and location of catch basins, manholes, hydrants and street
payment width and type, shall also be shown.
      (3)   Subdivision design features.
         (a)   Layout and width of proposed streets and utility easements,
pedestrian ways showing street names, lot dimensions, parks and other public
areas. The street layout shall include all contiguous land owned or controlled
by the subdivider;
         (b)   Proposed use of all parcels and, if zoning change is
contemplated, proposed zoning amendment;
         (c)   Preliminary street grades and drainage plan;
         (d)   Layout, numbers and preliminary dimensions of lots and blocks;
and
         (e)   When lots are located on a curve, the width of the lot at the
building setback line.
      (4)   Other information.
         (a)   Where a subdivider owns property adjacent to that which is being
proposed for the subdivision, the Planning Commission may require that the
subdivider submit a sketch plan of the remainder of the property to show the
possible relationships between the proposed subdivision and the future
subdivision.
         (b)   Potential land areas for re-subdivision or land area of
excessively deep or wide (over 200 feet) lots shall be indicated on the plat
for their intended use;
         (c)   A plan for soil erosion and sediment control both during
construction and after development has been completed;
         (d)   Any necessary site drainage, sewer and water, traffic studies or
traffic impact statements, or other relevant information as required by the
Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission or City Council; and
         (e)   Such other information as may be requested by the city staff,
Planning Commission or City Council.
   (B)   Data and requirements for final plat. Data required to be included or
provided with the final plat is as follows:
      (1)   A land surveyor who is registered in the state and shall comply
with M.S. Ch. 505, as it may be amended from time to time, and this chapter
shall prepare the plat;
      (2)   Data as required by the City Engineer and accurate angular and
linear dimensions for all lines, angles and curvatures used to describe
boundaries, streets, easements and other important features;
      (3)   Identification and description data as required for the preliminary
plat;
      (4)   Boundaries of the property; lines of all proposed streets and
alleys, with their width and other areas intended for public use;
      (5)   Lines of adjoining streets and alleys, with their width and names;
      (6)   All lot lines and easements, with figures showing their dimensions;
      (7)   An identification system for all lots and blocks;
      (8)   Certification by a registered land surveyor that the plat
represents a survey made by them and that monuments and makers thereon exist as
located and all dimensional and geodetic details are correct;
      (9)   Notarized certification by owner, and by any mortgage holder of
record, of adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other public
areas;
      (10)   Certification showing that all taxes currently due and special
assessments have been paid;
      (11)   Title opinion by a practicing attorney-at-law shall show, based
upon an examination of an abstract, title certificate or the records of the
County Recorder for the lands included within the plat, that the title is in
the name of the owner or subdivider and any encumbrances or liens on the
property. The date of continuation of the abstract examined or the date of the
examination of the registered property, abstract, title certificate or records
shall be within 30 days prior to the date the final plat is submitted to the
city for approval. The owner or subdivider shown in the title opinion shall be
the owner of record of the platted lands on the date of recording of the plat
with the County Recorder; and
      (12)   Execution by all owners of any interest in the land and any
holders of a mortgage therein of the certificate required by state statutes and
which certificate shall include an accurate legal description of any area to be
dedicated for public use and shall include a dedication to the city for
sufficient easements to accommodate utility services in such form as shall be
approved by the City Clerk.
   (C)   Certifications. The final plat shall include the required
certifications by the city and county officials. This shall include a signature
by the Chairperson of the Planning Commission indicating that the plat has been
reviewed by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Form for approval of county officials concerned with the recording
of the plat.
 
No delinquent taxes and transfer entered this             day of                   , 20       .
 
                                                                   
(Name) Sibley County Auditor
 
Document Number                                           .
 
I hereby certify this instrument was filed in the office of the County Recorder for record on this               day of
                              , 20       , at                 o’clock a.m./p.m., and was duly recorded in Book               of
                             on page                   .
 
                                                                   
(Name) County Recorder
Sibley County
 
      (2)   Form of approval of city officials.
 
I hereby certify that proper evidence of title has been presented to and examined by me, and I hereby approve this plat as to form and
execution.
 
Date this                    day of                               , 20            .
 
                                                                   
(Name) Henderson City Attorney
 
Checked and approved as to compliance with M.S. Ch. 505.
 
Date this                    day of                               , 20            .
 
                                                                   
(Name) Henderson City Engineer
 
Checked and approved as in compliance with the Henderson Zoning Ordinance and Subdivision Ordinances.
 
                                                                   
City Zoning Administrator
 
Approved by Henderson City Council on this             day of                         ,               .
 
                                                                   
Mayor, City of Henderson
 
Attest:
 
                                                                   
City Clerk
 
§ 909.07 SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Conformity with the Comprehensive Plan. The proposed subdivision shall
conform to the Comprehensive Plan and policy statement adopted by the city.
   (B)   Streets and thoroughfares.
      (1)   General street design.
         (a)   The design of all streets shall be considered in relation to
public safety, existing and planned streets, efficient circulation of traffic,
topographical conditions, run-off of storm water, proposed use of the land to
be served by such streets and the Comprehensive Plan of the community.
         (b)   When a new subdivision adjoins unsubdivided land that is
susceptible to being divided, the arrangement of streets shall allow for their
appropriate continuation into adjoining areas. Such streets shall be carried to
the boundaries of the unsubdivided land.
         (c)   Where the parcel is subdivided into larger tracts than for
building lots, such parcels shall be divided so as to allow for the opening of
major streets and the ultimate extension of adjacent minor streets.
      (2)   Street names. Street names shall not duplicate the names of other
streets unless approved in advance by the Planning Commission or County
Recorder.
      (3)   Street width and grades. The following standards for street width
and grades shall be followed by the subdivider.
 
Type of Highway or Street    Minimum     Maximum Grade Minimum Width
Collectors                   60 ft.      8%            0.5%
Cul-de-sacs                  40 ft.      10%           0.5%
Frontage roads               60 ft.      10%           0.5%
Highway and arterials        8 - 120 ft. 5%            0.5%
Local streets                60 ft.      10%           0.5%
Radius turn around diameters 80 ft.      10%           0.5%
 
      (4)   Street intersections. Insofar as practical, streets shall intersect
at right angles. In no case shall the angle formed by the intersection of two
streets by less than 60 degrees. Intersections having more that four corners
shall be prohibited. Adequate land for future intersection and interchange
construction needs shall be dedicated to the city.
      (5)   Tangents. A tangent of at least 100 feet shall be introduced
between reverse curves on collector streets and 50 feet on lesser streets.
      (6)   Deflections. When connecting street lines deflect from each other
at one point by more than ten degrees they shall be connected by a curve with a
radius adequate to ensure a sight distance of no less than 500 feet for
arterioles, 300 feet for collector, 100 feet for all other streets.
      (7)   Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150
feet shall be prohibited.
      (8)   Local streets. Local streets shall be laid out so as not to
encourage through traffic.
      (9)   Cul-de-sac. The maximum length of a street terminating in a cul-de-
sac shall be 300 feet, measured from the centerline of the street of an origin
to the end of the right-of-way. Each cul-de-sac shall be provided with a turn-
around having a minimum outside roadway diameter of 80 feet and a minimum
street property line diameter of 100 feet.
      (10)   Access to arterial streets. In the case where a proposed plat is
adjacent to a limited access from individual lots to such highways.
         (a)   As a general requirement, access arterioles shall be at
intervals of not less than one-fourth mile and through existing and established
crossroads where possible.
         (b)   The City Council may require the developer to provide local
service drives along the right-of-way of such facilities, or they may require
that lot rear yards back on the arterioles, in which case vehicular and
pedestrian access between the lots and arterial shall be prohibited.
      (11)   Half streets. Half streets shall be prohibited, except where it
will be practical to require the dedication of the other half when the
adjoining property is subdivided, in which case the dedication of a half street
may be permitted. Half streets shall not be developed or maintained.
      (12)   Private streets. Private streets shall be prohibited and not
maintained.
      (13)   Corners. Curb lines at street intersections shall be rounded at a
radius of not less than 15 feet.
      (14)   Alleys. Alleys, where permitted by the city, shall be at least a
minimum of 15 feet wide in residential areas and at least 24 feet wide in
commercial areas. The city may require alleys in commercial areas where
adequate off-street loading space is not available. Dead-end alleys, alley
intersections and sharp changes in alignment shall be prohibited
      (15)   Pedestrian walkways. The Planning Commission and/or Council may
require the provision of pedestrian ways in proximity to public service areas
such as parks, schools, shopping facilities or in other appropriate locations
as need exists or as required by city officials, Planning Commission and/or the
City Council. The design of the pedestrian walkways shall be a minimum of at
least ten feet wide.
      (16)   Hardship to owners of adjoining property. The street arrangements
shall not be such as to cause hardship to owners of adjoining property in
platting their own land and providing convenient access to it.
   (C)   Blocks.
      (1)   The length of blocks shall not exceed 1,200 feet, nor be less than
300 feet. Pedestrian ways at least ten feet wide at their approximate centers
may be required for blocks over 800 feet long.
      (2)   Blocks intended for commercial and industrial use must be designed
as such, and the block must be of sufficient size to provide for adequate off-
street parking, loading and such other requirements of the city.
      (3)   The width of a block shall normally be sufficient to allow two
tiers of lots of appropriate length.
   (D)   Lots.
      (1)   Size. For areas served by municipal sewer and water systems, the
lot dimensions shall be such as to comply with the minimum lot areas specified
in the Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Side lot lines. Side lines of lots shall be substantially at right
angles to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines.
      (3)   Drainage. Lots shall be graded so as to provide drainage away from
building locations.
      (4)   Natural features. In subdividing any land, due regard shall be
shown for all natural features, such as tree growth, wetlands, steep slopes,
watercourses or similar conditions, and plans adjusted to preserve those which
will add attractiveness, safety and stability to the proposed development.
      (5)   Lot remnants. All remnants of lots below the minimum lot size left
over after subdividing of a larger tract must be added to adjacent lots rather
than allowed to remain as un-usable parcels unless the owner can show plans for
future use of such remnant.
      (6)   Double frontage lots. Double frontage (lots with frontage on two
parallel streets) or reverse frontage shall not be permitted, except when lot
rear yards back on an arterial or collector street. Such lots shall have an
additional depth of at least ten feet in order to allow for screen planting
along the rear yard back lot line.
   (E)   Easements.
      (1)   Utilities. Easements shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide when
centered on rear or side property lot lines and 15 feet when adjacent
properties aren’t available for utility easements. The Clerk may request
greater requirements if the situation warrants the need. Easements for storm or
sanitary sewers shall be a minimum of at least 20 feet wide, unless otherwise
directed by the City Clerk. Easements shall have continuity of alignment from
block to block. Temporary construction easements may from time to time be
required to where installation depths are greater than 12 feet. Utility
easements other objects that will interfere with the free movement of utility
service vehicles. If easements are obstructed, the city reserves the right to
remove any or all obstructions at the cost of the effected property owner, any
or all costs may be assessed back to the effected property owners. The city is
not responsible for any removal costs and/or destruction of any items
obstructing the easement rights-of-way.
      (2)   Watercourses. When a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse,
drainage way channel or stream, there shall be provided a storm water easement
or drainage right-of-way conforming substantially to the construction as may be
determined to be necessary by the City Engineer.
§ 909.08 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   The subdivider-developer shall be required to provide the following
improvements for residential subdivisions unless the City Council elects to do
so under special assessments.
   (A)   Monuments.
      (1)   Steel monuments shall be placed as described according to M.S. Ch.
505, as it may be amended from time to time, at all lot corners, block corners,
angle points or curves in streets and at intermediate points as shown on the
final plat and shall be the subdivider’s responsibility and at his or her
expense. All federal, state, county, other official benchmarks, monuments or
triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in
precise position.
      (2)   Said steel monuments shall be placed as so they are within six
inches from final elevation at the above referenced corners and points within
one year of final acceptance of said final street grades.
   (B)   Streets.
      (1)   Grading. Streets shall be graded to the full width of the right-of-
way in accordance with street grades submitted to and approved by the City
Engineer. All street grading and gravel base construction shall be in
accordance with specifications on file in the City Engineer’s office. Grading
shall be complete prior to installation of applicable underground utilities,
either private or public in nature. Gravel base construction shall be
undertaken after completion of the installation of underground utilities.
      (2)   Surfacing. Following the City Engineer’s approval of street grading
and after utility installation, streets shall be surfaced and provided with
concrete curbs and gutters where required in accordance with the latest
recommended plans and specifications prepared by the City Engineer and approved
by the City Council.
   (C)   Sidewalks and driveways. Sidewalks shall be installed along all
thoroughfares and collector streets and other streets except if determined by
appropriate city staff, Planning Commission and City Council that their purpose
is not required. Driveways shall be constructed from the curb and gutter to the
property line or property side of sidewalks. In cases where driveways are
constructed after curbing and sidewalk are in place, the sidewalk shall be
reconstructed in accordance with driveway specifications to the width of the
driveway.
   (D)   Utilities.
      (1)   Sanitary sewer. Sanitary sewer facilities adequate to serve the
subdivision shall be installed in accordance with the latest plans and
specifications of the City Engineer and shall meet the requirements of the
master plan for water main extensions of the municipality. All new construction
shall be connected to the municipal water system.
      (2)   Storm water facility. Storm sewer and/or other surface drainage
facilities shall be installed as determined to be necessary by the City
Engineer for the proper drainage of surface waters.
   (E)   Specifications and inspections. Unless otherwise stated, all required
improvements shall conform to engineering standards and specifications as
required by the City Council. Such improvements shall be subject of inspection
and approval by, and shall be made in sequence as determined by, the City
Engineer.
§ 909.09 PAYMENT FOR INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The required improvements as listed in this chapter are to be
furnished and installed at the sole expense of the subdivider. However, if the
cost of an improvement would by general policy be assessed only in part to the
improved property and the remaining cost paid out of general tax levy,
provision may be made for the payment of a portion of the cost of the city.
Further, if any improvement installed within the subdivision will be of
substantial benefit to lands beyond the boundaries of the subdivision,
provision may be made for causing a portion of the cost of the improvements,
representing the benefit to such lands, to be assessed against that property.
In this situation, the subdivider will be required only to pay for such portion
of the whole cost of such improvement as will represent the benefit to the
property within that subdivision.
   (B)   (1)   Prior to the installation of any required improvements and prior
to approval of the final plat, the subdivider shall enter into a contract in
writing with the city requiring the subdivider to furnish and construct said
improvements and pay costs for which he or she is found to be responsible in
accordance with plans and specifications and usual contact conditions. This
shall include provision for supervision of details of construction by the
Engineer and shall grant to the Engineer authority to correlate the work to be
done under said contract by any subcontractor authorized to proceed thereunder
an with any other work being done or contracted by the community in the
vicinity.
      (2)   No subdivider shall be permitted to start work on any other
subdivision without special approval of the City Council if he or she has
previously defaulted on a city contract entered into in accordance with this
section.
   (C)   The contract may require, in the city’s sole discretion, that the
subdivider make an escrow deposit or, in lieu thereof furnish a bank letter of
credit or performance bond is required, the city shall be entitled to reimburse
itself for any damages, costs and expenses including reasonable attorney’s fees
incurred by the city resulting from the subdivider breaching the terms and
conditions of the contract. If the subdivider defaults on the terms and
conditions of the contract with the city, the city may also complete the
project referred to in the contract and assess all costs incurred by the city,
which shall include, but not be limited to, all costs incurred by the city as a
result of the subdivider’s breach of the contract, against the real property
being subdivided as a special assessment and collect it in the same manner as a
special assessment levied by the city against real property is accordance with
M.S. Ch. 429, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (D)   (1)   Construction plans and specifications for the required
improvements conforming in all respects with the standards and ordinances of
the city shall be prepared at the subdivider’s expense by a professional
engineer who is registered in the state, and said plans and specifications
shall contain his certificate. Such plans and specifications, together with the
quantities of construction items shall be submitted to the City Engineer for
his or her approval and for his or her estimate of the total costs of the
required improvement. Upon approval, such plans and specifications shall become
a part of the required contract. The tracings of the plans approved by the City
Engineer, plus three prints shall be furnished to the city and be filed as a
public record.
      (2)   All required improvements on the site that are to be installed
under the provision of this chapter shall be inspected during the course of
construction by the City Engineer at the subdivider’s expense, and acceptance
by the city shall be subject to the City Engineer’s certificate of compliance
with the contract.
   (E)   Improvements within a subdivision which have been completed prior to
application for preliminary of final approval of the plat, or the execution of
the contract for installation of the required improvements, shall only be
accepted as equivalent improvements if they are in compliance with and conform
to applicable city standards, and only if the City Engineer shall certify that
he or she is satisfied that the existing improvements conform to those
applicable city standards.
§ 909.10 OTHER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council may grant a variance from any of the terms and
conditions of this chapter upon receiving a report from the Planning Commission
in any particular case where the subdivider can show by reason of exceptional
topography or any other physical condition that strict compliance with this
chapter would cause undue hardship; provided, such relief may be granted
without detriment to the public welfare and without detriment to the public
welfare and without impairing the intent and purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may recommend variations from the
requirements of this chapter in specific cases, which if, in the opinion of the
Planning Commission, it does not affect the Comprehensive Plan or the intent of
this chapter. Any modifications thus recommended shall be entered in the
minutes of the Planning Commission in setting forth the reasons that justify
the modifications. The City Council may approve variances from this chapter in
specific cases that, in its opinion, meet the above requirements and do not
adversely affect the purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   Upon receiving a report from the Planning Commission, the City Council
may grant a variance from any of the provisions of this chapter in the case of
a planned unit development; provided that, the City Council shall find that the
proposed development is fully consistent with the purposes and intent of this
chapter. This provision is intended to provide the necessary flexibility for
new land planning and land development trends and techniques.
   (C)   (1)   The subdivision of a lot which is a part of a recorded plat or
parcel, where the division is to permit the transfer of land from one neighbor
to another, and the newly created property line or lines will not cause either
lot or lots when transferred to be in violation of the Zoning Ordinance shall
be exempt from the terms and conditions of this chapter.
      (2)   In the case of a subdivision of unplatted land or a resubdivision
of platted land into five parcels or less, situated in a locality where
conditions are well defined, and the subdividing will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the locality in which the
property in question is located and newly created, and property lines will not
cause any resulting lot to be in violation of this chapter or the zoning
ordinances, the applicant may petition the Planning Commission, the exempt the
subdivider from complying with all or part of the regulations of this chapter.
      (3)   The applicant shall be required to submit a petition for waiver of
the requirements of this chapter upon forms furnished by the city. The forms
shall be accompanied by or contain the following information:
         (a)   An exhibit showing a dimensioned certificate of survey drawn by
a registered land survey drawn by a registered land surveyor identifying the
original lot or subdivision with an overlay or separate plan showing the
proposed lot or subdivision requested;
         (b)   An accurate dimensioned drawing of the present lot (or lots),
arrangements shall include existing lot lines, structures, easements and
encroachments, existing and proposed utilities, streets and other relevant
information as needed, as well as the relationship to adjacent lots and
buildings;
         (c)   A legal description of the existing area and the proposed
project area; and
         (d)   Proof of property ownership.
      (4)   The petition for waiver and eight copies of the certificate of
survey must be submitted to the Zoning Administrator at least three weeks prior
to the next regular meeting of the Planning Commission, and shall be
accompanied by the required filing fee as determined by the City Council.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall, thereafter, make a recommendation to
the City Council concerning requests.
      (6)   The City Council, after review by the Planning Commission, shall
then consider the application and the Planning Commission recommendation, and
proceed to act on a resolution approving or denying the request.
      (7)   A certified copy of the City Council’s resolution approving the
petition for waiver accompanied by the exhibits required in the petition must
be recorded by the petitioner at the office of the County Recorder and be done
within ten days after the Council’s approval of the petition. If land, lots or
parcels are subdivided without following these guidelines, the transfer of any
lands shall be deemed illegal and in violation of this chapter.
§ 909.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Remedies. The city may exercise any or all of the following remedies
to enforce this chapter.
      (1)   The city may, through civil proceedings, obtain a court order to
enjoin any person from committing an act that is in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   The city may deny the issuance of a building permit or other
permits until all provisions of this chapter are complied.
      (3)   The city may exercise any and all other remedies available to it in
law or in equity against anyone who is in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Penalties. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter, or who sells, leases or offers for sale or lease any lot, block or
tract of land herein regulated before all requirements of this chapter have
been complied with, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction
thereof, will be subject to a fine and/or imprisonment. Each day that the
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
§ 909.12 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   Separability. The several provisions of this chapter are separable in
accordance with the following provisions.
      (1)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge any provision
of this chapter to be invalid, such judgment shall not affect any other
provision of this chapter not specifically included in said judgment.
      (2)   If any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge invalid the
application of any provision of this chapter to a particular property, building
or structure, such judgement shall not affect other property, buildings or
structures.
   (B)   Building permits. No building permit shall be issued for any
construction enlargement, alteration or repair, demolition or moving of any
building or structure on any lot or parcel until all the requirements of this
chapter have been fully met.
   (C)   Repeal. All previous ordinance or code provisions adopted by the City
Council regulating the subdivision of land is hereby repealed.
CHAPTER X: PUBLIC LIBRARY
Section
Part I. Established
   
1001.01   Library established
   
1001.02   Levy
Part II. Directors; Term; Removal
   
1002.01   Appointments
   
1002.02   Removal
Part III. Organization of Board; Rules
   
1003.01   Organization
   
1003.02   By-laws; regulations
   
1003.03   Expenditure of moneys
   
1003.04   Board duties
Part IV. Non-Residents; Contracts to Loan Books
   
1004.01   Non-resident privileges
   
1004.02   Governed by
   
1004.03   Contracts
Part V. Title of Property
   
1005.01   Vested in city
   
1005.02   Free library
Part VI. Gifts; Contracts
   
1006.01   Acceptance
Part VII. Abolishment
   
1007.01   Abolishment
PART I. ESTABLISHED
§ 1001.01 LIBRARY ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a public library for the use of the inhabitants
of the city and such other persons as the Library Board may determine.
§ 1001.02 LEVY.
   The City Council may levy whatever amount it deems necessary for proceeds to
the fund known as the “Library Fund” (101-45500).
PART II. DIRECTORS; TERM; REMOVAL
§ 1002.01 APPOINTMENTS.
   The Mayor of the city, with the approval of the Council, shall appoint a
Board of five Directors, but not more than one of whom shall, at any time, be a
member of the governing body; such appointment to be made prior to the first
meeting of such Library Board after the end of the fiscal year. Two such
Directors shall hold office for one year, two for two years, and one for three
years. All terms shall end with the fiscal year. Annually thereafter, the
Mayor, with the approval of the Council, shall appoint Board members for the
term of three years until their successors qualify a sufficient number of
members to fill the places of those whose term or terms expire. A Library Board
member shall not be eligible to serve more than three consecutive three year
terms. All Library Board members must be residents of the city or the county. A
majority of the Board members must be residents of the city. The Library Board
member must be a member of a regional public library system.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-17-2023)
§ 1002.02 REMOVAL.
   The Mayor, by and with the consent of the Council, may remove any Director
for misconduct or neglect.
PART III. ORGANIZATION OF BOARD; RULES
§ 1003.01 ORGANIZATION.
   Immediately after appointment, the Board shall organize by electing one of
its number as President and one as Secretary, and from time to time it may
appoint such other officers and employees as it deems necessary.
§ 1003.02 BY-LAWS; REGULATIONS.
   The Board shall adopt such by-laws and regulations for the government of the
library and for the conduct of its business as may be expedient and conformable
to law.
§ 1003.03 EXPENDITURE OF MONEYS.
   The Board shall have exclusive control of the expenditure of all moneys
collected for or placed to the credit of the Library Fund.
§ 1003.04 BOARD DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board may lease rooms for library use.
   (B)   With the approval of the Council, the Board may purchase grounds and
erect a library building thereon.
PART IV. NON-RESIDENTS; CONTRACTS TO LOAN BOOKS
§ 1004.01 NON-RESIDENT PRIVILEGES.
   Any Board of Directors may admit to the benefits of its library, persons not
residing within the municipality under such regulations and upon such
conditions as to payment and security as it shall by rule prescribe.
§ 1004.02 GOVERNED BY.
   The Board will be governed by the rules and regulations set forth in M.S.
Ch. 134 and those by-laws adopted by the Library Board. In the event that any
such by-law of the Board is inconsistent with state law, state law shall
govern..
(Ord. 237, passed 5-17-2023)
§ 1004.03 CONTRACTS.
   The Board may also contract with such boards or officers for the use of the
library by the people of the county, town, city or village not having the use
of a free library, upon the same terms and conditions as those granted to
residents in the city and would received from such boards such an amount
annually as may be agreed upon therefor.
PART V. TITLE OF PROPERTY
§ 1005.01 VESTED IN CITY.
   All property given, granted, conveyed, donated, devised or bequeathed to, or
otherwise acquired by, the city for a library or reading room shall vest in,
and be held in the name of the city and any conveyance, grant, donation,
devise, bequest or gift made to or in the name of, any public library or
library board shall be deemed to have been made directly to the city.
§ 1005.02 FREE LIBRARY.
   The public library hereby established shall be forever free to the use of
the inhabitants of the city, subject to such reasonable regulations as the
Directors may adopt.
PART VI. GIFTS; CONTRACTS
§ 1006.01 ACCEPTANCE.
   With the consent of the City Council, expressed by ordinance or resolution,
the Library Board may accept any gift, grant devise or bequest made or offered
for library.
PART VII. ABOLISHMENT
§ 1007.01 ABOLISHMENT.
   Upon recommendation of the Library Board, the City Council may abolish the
Library Board at the end of any fiscal year provided that the City Council
shall simultaneously establish a successor Library Board of either five, seven,
or nine members by resolution or ordinance. The appointment of successor Board
members shall be made as provided in M.S. § 134.09, Subd. 1, as it may be
amended from time to time. The terms of successor Board members shall be as
provided in M.S. § 134.09, Subd. 2.
(Ord. 237, passed 5-17-2023)
CHAPTER XI: BUILDING CODE ADOPTION; REGULATIONS
Section
Part I. Building Code Adoption
   
1101.01   Codes adopted by reference
   
1101.02   Application, administration and enforcement
   
1101.03   Permits and fees
   
1101.04   Violations and penalties
   
1101.05   Building Code optional chapters
Part II. Vacant Buildings
   
1102.01   Definitions
   
1102.02   Securing vacant buildings
   
1102.03   Responding to the notice
   
1102.04   Emergency securing of vacant buildings
   
1102.05   Collection of costs
   
1102.06   Severability
   
1102.07   Effective date
PART I. BUILDING CODE ADOPTION
   (A)   An ordinance adopting the State Building Code. This part provides for
the application, administration and enforcement of the State Building Code by
regulating the erection, construction, enlargement, alteration, repair, moving,
removal, demolition, conversion, occupancy, equipment, use, height, area and
maintenance of all buildings, and/or structures in this municipality; provides
for the issuance of permits and collection of fees thereof; provides penalties
for violation thereof; repeals all ordinances that conflict therewith.
   (B)   This part shall perpetually include the most current edition of the
State Building Code with the exception of the optional appendix chapters.
Optional appendix chapters shall not apply unless specifically adopted.
§ 1101.01 CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The State Building Code, as adopted by the Commissioner of Administration
pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.101 et seq., as they may be amended from time to time,
including all of the amendments, rules and regulation established, adopted and
published from time to time by the state’s Commissioner of Administration,
through the Building Codes and Standards Division is hereby adopted by
reference with the exception of the optional chapters, unless specifically
adopted in this part. The State Building Code is hereby incorporated in this
part as if fully set out herein.
§ 1101.02 APPLICATION, ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The application, administration and enforcement of the code shall be
in accordance with the State Building Code. The code shall be enforced within
the extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 326B.121, Subd. 1, as it may be
amended from time to time, when so established by this part.
   (B)   The code enforcement agency of this municipality is called the
“Henderson Building Department”.
   (C)   This code shall be enforced by the state’s Certified Building Official
designated by the city to administer the code (M.S. § 326B.133, Subd. 1, as it
may be amended from time to time).
§ 1101.03 PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   The issuance of permits and collection of fees shall be as authorized
in M.S. § 326B.121, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the municipality in city Res. 2004-
1 and all subsequent related fee adoption resolutions. In addition, a surcharge
fee shall be collected on all permits issued by this code in accordance with
M.S. § 326B.148, as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 1101.04 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A violation of the code is a misdemeanor (M.S. § 16B.69, as it may be
amended from time to time).
§ 1101.05 BUILDING CODE OPTIONAL CHAPTERS.
   (A)   The State Building Code, established pursuant to M.S. §§ 326B.101 et
seq., as they may be amended from time to time, allows the municipality to
adopt by reference and enforce certain optional chapters of the most current
edition of the State Building Code.
   (B)   No optional provisions identified in the most current addition of the
State Building Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as part of the Building
Code for the municipality.
PART II. VACANT BUILDINGS
§ 1102.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this part, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of Henderson, County of Sibley, State of Minnesota.
   SECURE. Includes, but is not limited to, installing locks, repairing windows
and doors, boarding windows and doors, posting “no-trespassing” signs,
installing exterior lighting or motion-detecting lights, fencing the property,
and installing a monitored alarm or other security system consistent with M.S.
§ 463.251, as it may be amended from time to time.
   UNOCCUPIED BUILDING. A building which is not being used for a legal
occupancy.
   UNSECURED BUILDING. A building or a portion of a building that is open to
entry by unauthorized persons without the use of tools.
   VACANT BUILDING. A building or a portion of a building that meets one or
more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Unoccupied and foreclosed upon as identified by the county;
      (2)   Unoccupied and windows or entrances to the premises are boarded up
or closed off, or multiple window panes are broken and unrepaired;
      (3)   Unoccupied and doors to the premises are smashed through, broken
off, unhinged or continuously unlocked;
      (4)   Unoccupied and gas, electric or water service to the premises has
been terminated;
      (5)   Unoccupied and rubbish, trash or debris has accumulated on the
mortgaged premises;
      (6)   Unoccupied and the police or Sheriff’s office has received at least
two reports of trespassers on the premises, or of vandalism or other illegal
acts being committed on the premises; and/or
      (7)   Unoccupied and the premises are deteriorating and are either below
or are in imminent danger of falling below minimum community standards for
public safety and sanitation.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 1102.02 SECURING VACANT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   In general, if any building becomes vacant or unoccupied and is deemed
hazardous due to the fact that the building is open to trespass and has not
been secured, and the building could be made safe by securing the building, the
City Council may order the building secured and shall cause notice of the order
to be served consistent with M.S. § 463.251, Subd. 2, as it may be amended from
time to time. The notice must be served upon the owner of record of the
premises or the owner’s agent, the taxpayer identified in the property tax
records for the parcel, the holder of the mortgage or Sheriff’s certificate and
any neighborhood association for the neighborhood in which the building is
located that has requested notice. The notice is served by delivery or mail.
   (B)   The notice must be in writing and must include, at a minimum, a
statement that:
      (1)   Informs the owner and the holder of any mortgage or Sheriff’s
certificate of the requirements found in M.S. § 463.251, Subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time, that the owner or holder of the certificate has six
days to comply with the order or provide the Council with a reasonable plan and
schedule to comply with the order and that costs may be assessed against the
property if the person does not secure the building;
      (2)   Informs the owner and the holder of any mortgage or Sheriff’s
certificate that, within six days of the ordering being served, the person may
request a hearing before the governing body challenging the governing body’s
determination that the property is vacant or unoccupied and hazardous; and
      (3)   Notifies the holder of any Sheriff’s certificate of the holder’s
duty under M.S. § 582.031, Subd. 1, para. (b), as it may be amended from time
to time, to enter the premises to protect the premises from waste and trespass
if the order is not challenged or set aside and there is prima facie evidence
of abandonment of the property as described in M.S. § 582.032, Subd. 7, as it
may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   Service by mail is completed upon mailing a copy of the order to the
owner by first class mail at the last known address.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 1102.03 RESPONDING TO THE NOTICE.
   (A)   The owner of the building or the holder of the Sheriff’s certificate
of sale has six days after the order is served to do one of the following:
      (1)   Comply with the order;
      (2)   Provide the Council with a reasonable plan and schedule to comply
with the order; or
      (3)   Request a hearing before the City Council to challenge the
Council’s determination that the property is vacant or unoccupied and
hazardous.
   (B)   If the owner or holder of the Sheriff’s certificate fails to take one
of these actions within the allotted time, the City Council must have the
building properly secured.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 1102.04 EMERGENCY SECURING OF VACANT BUILDINGS.
   Pursuant to M.S. § 463.251, Subd. 4, as it may be amended from time to time,
when the city’s Building Official, Police Chief or Fire Chief determines that
an emergency exists with respect to the health or safety of persons in the
community and immediate boarding and securing of a building is required, and
where immediate danger will exist to children, transients or others members of
the community without the immediate boarding or securing of the building, the
Building Official, Police Chief or Fire Chief may waive all notice requirements
herein and immediately board or otherwise secure the building; provided that:
   (A)   The conditions showing the existence of an emergency are documented in
writing by the Building Official, Police Chief, Fire Chief or their designees;
and
   (B)   Notice is mailed immediately by the Department invoking this section
to the owner of record of the premises, the taxpayer identified in the property
tax records for the parcel, the holder of the mortgage or Sheriff’s certificate
and any neighborhood association for the neighborhood in which the building is
located that has requested notice.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 1102.05 COLLECTION OF COSTS.
   All costs incurred by the city for securing a vacant building under this
part may be charged against the real property as a special assessment pursuant
to M.S. §§ 463.251, 463.21 and 463.151, as they may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 1102.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this part is found to be invalid for any reason by a
court of competent jurisdiction, the validity of the remaining provisions shall
not be affected.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-20-2020)
§ 1102.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This part becomes effective upon passage and publication.
(Ord. 233, passed 5-20-2020)
CHAPTER XII: TREES
Section
Part I. Purpose
   
1201.01   Authority and power
   
1201.02   Terms of office
   
1201.03   Applicability
   
1201.04   Definitions
   
1201.05   Written approval
   
1201.06   Insurance
   
1201.07   Landscaping
   
1201.08   Tree planting, maintenance and removal
   
1201.09   Adjacent landowner responsibility
   
1201.10   Tree protection
   
1201.11   Private trees
   
1201.12   Enforcement
   
1201.13   Penalties, claims and appeals
PART I. PURPOSE
It is the purpose of this part to promote and protect the public health, safety
and general welfare by providing for the regulation of the planting,
maintenance and removal of trees, shrubs and other plants within the city
limits on public property.
§ 1201.01 AUTHORITY AND POWER.
   There is hereby created and established a City Tree Board (Board), which
shall consist of five members, citizens and residents of the city, who shall be
appointed by the Mayor, with the approval of the City Council. Members of the
Board shall serve without compensation, except for reimbursable expenses as
allowed by this city code of ordinances.
§ 1201.02 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The term of the five persons to be appointed by the Mayor shall be
three years; except that, the term of two of the members of the first Board
shall be for two years.
   (B)   In the event that a vacancy shall occur during the term of any member,
his or her successor shall be appointed for the unexpired portion of the term.
§ 1201.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This part provides full power and authority over all trees, plants, shrubs
and the first foot of soil within in the drip line of each tree located within
street right-of-way, parks and public places of the city; and to trees, plants
and shrubs located on private property that constitute a hazard or threat, as
described herein.
§ 1201.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this part, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EASEMENT. A granting of land by an owner, for a specific use by persons
other than the owner.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Public land used or to be used as a street or highway
including alleys and boulevards.
§ 1201.05 WRITTEN APPROVAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
planting, cutting, trimming, pruning, removing, spraying or otherwise treating
public trees, shrubs or vines within the city without receiving written
approval from the Board. Consideration for approval will be contingent on
provision of evidence of insurance and bonding as described below.
   (B)   For the purposes of this part, the following are excluded from this
requirement:
      (1)   City employees, while engaged in their duties as city employees;
and
      (2)   Persons engaged in trimming or cutting of public trees, shrubs or
vines which are less than ten feet in height, who have received permission from
the city.
§ 1201.06 INSURANCE.
   Before written approval shall be granted, each applicant shall first file
evidence of possession of worker compensation and liability insurance in the
minimum amounts as required by this city code for bodily injury or death and
property damage coverage indemnifying the city or any person either injured or
damaged resulting from the pursuit of such endeavor as herein described. Other
indemnification means may be substituted for the above if the Board feels it
meets the indemnification requirements of the city code.
§ 1201.07 LANDSCAPING.
   In new subdivisions or when the development of commercial property occurs,
the Board will review landscaping plans and may recommend trees and/or
specifications to be used for planting and landscaping in any of the streets,
parking lots, parks and other public places abutting lands henceforth developed
and/or subdivided.
§ 1201.08 TREE PLANTING, MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Tree species. The Board shall develop and maintain a list of desirable
trees for planting along streets, in three size classes: small; medium; and
large. A list of trees not suitable for planting will also be created and
enforced by the Board.
   (B)   Spacing. The spacing of street trees will be in accordance with the
tree species size classes listed in this part, and no trees may be planted
closer together than the following: small trees, 30 feet: medium trees, 40
feet; and large trees, 50 feet; except in special plantings designed or
approved by a landscape architect.
   (C)   Utilities. No street trees, other than those species listed herein as
small trees, may be planted under or within ten lateral feet of any overhead
utility wire, or over or within three lateral feet of any underground
waterline, sewer line, transmission line or other utility.
   (D)   Distance from curb and sidewalk. The distance trees may be planted
from curbs or curb lines and sidewalks will be in accordance with the tree
species sized classes listed in division (B) above, and no trees may be planted
closer to any curb or sidewalk than the following: small trees, two feet;
medium trees, three feet; and large trees, four feet.
   (E)   Topping. It shall be unlawful as a normal practice for any person,
firm or city department to top any street tree, park tree or other tree on
public property. TOPPING is defined as the severe cutting back of limbs to
shrubs within the tree’s crown to such a degree so as to remove the normal
canopy and disfigure the tree. Trees severely damaged by storms or other
causes, or certain trees under utility wires or other obstructions where other
pruning practices are impractical, may be exempted from this part at the
determination of the Board.
§ 1201.09 ADJACENT LANDOWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   No person shall plant or remove any tree on any street, park or other public
place without first making request of the Board. The person making the request
shall abide by the standards set forth in this part.
§ 1201.10 TREE PROTECTION.
   Upon the discovery of any destructive or communicable disease or other
pestilence which endangers the growth or health of trees, or threatens to
spread disease insect infestations, the Board shall, at once, cause written
notice to be served upon the owner of the property upon which such diseased or
infested tree is situated, and the notice shall require such property owner to
eradicate, remove or otherwise control such condition within reasonable time to
be specified in such notice.
§ 1201.11 PRIVATE TREES.
   (A)   The Board or its official designee has the authority to enter onto
private property, whereon there is located a tree, shrub, plant or plant part
that is suspected to be a public nuisance and to order its removal if
necessary.
   (B)   A PUBLIC NUISANCE is any tree with an infectious disease or insect
problem, dead or dying trees, a tree or limb that obstructs street lights,
traffic signs, the free passage of pedestrians or vehicles or a tree that poses
a threat to safety.
§ 1201.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Board shall have the power to promulgate and enforce rules, regulations
and specifications concerning the trimming, spraying, removal, planting,
pruning and protection of trees, shrubs, vines, hedges and other plants upon
the right-of-way of any street, alley, sidewalk or other public place in the
city.
§ 1201.13 PENALTIES, CLAIMS AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Violations. Any person who violates any provision of this part or who
fails to comply with any notice issued pursuant to provision of the part, upon
being found guilty of violation, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $700
for each separate offense. Each day during which any violation of the
provisions of this part shall occur or continue shall be a separate offense.
If, as the result of the violation of any provision of this part, the injury,
mutilation or death of a tree, shrub or other plant located on city-owned
property is caused, the cost of repair or replacement of such tree, shrub or
other plant shall be borne by the party in violation. The value of trees and
shrubs shall be determined in accordance with the latest revision of a Guide to
the Professional Evaluation of Landscape Trees, Specimen Shrubs and Evergreens,
as published by the International Society of Arboriculture.
   (B)   Assessment of claim. In the event that a nuisance is not abated by the
date specified in the notice, the Board is authorized to cause the abatement of
said nuisance. The reasonable cost of such abatement shall be filed as a lien
against the property on which the nuisance was located. In addition, the owner
of the property upon which the nuisance was located shall be subject to
prosecution.
CHAPTER XIII: HERITAGE PRESERVATION COMMISSION
Section
   
1301.01   Declaration of public policy and purpose
   
1301.02   Definition
   
1301.03   Commission created
   
1301.04   Designation of heritage preservation sites
   
1301.05   Review of permits
   
1301.06   Findings
   
1301.07   Appeal to the City Council
   
1301.08   Limitations
   
1301.09   Emergency repair
   
1301.10   Enforcement
   
1301.11   Additional powers and duties of the Commission
   
1301.12   Repository for documents
   
1301.13   Recording of heritage preservation sites
§ 1301.01 DECLARATION OF PUBLIC POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The Council of the city hereby declares as a matter of public policy
that the preservation, protection, perpetuation, promotion and use of are
places, buildings, structures, lands, districts and other objects having a
special historical, community or aesthetic interest or value is a public
necessity and is required in the interest of the health, prosperity, safety and
welfare of the community. To this end, the Heritage Preservation Commission is
created and charged with the stewardship of the city’s heritage.
   (B)   The purposes of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Safeguard the heritage of the city by preserving properties which
reflect elements of the city’ s cultural, social, economic, political, visual
or architectural history;
      (2)   Protect and enhance the city’s appeal and attraction to residents,
visitors, businesses and tourists;
      (3)   Enhance the visual and aesthetic character, diversity and interest
of the city;
      (4)   Foster civic pride in the beauty and notable accomplishments of the
past;
      (5)   Promote the preservation and continued use of historic properties
for the education and general welfare of the people of the city;
      (6)   Provide guidance and assistance to owners of historic properties in
the continuing preservation and appropriate use of their structures;
      (7)   Conduct research and education programs regarding historic
properties and landscapes connected to the history of the community within the
Minnesota River watershed; and
      (8)   Provide a continuing, objective and orderly process for the City
Council, Planning Commission and other public bodies to review and consider the
impact of proposed development, redevelopment and remodeling of historic
properties.
§ 1301.02 DEFINITION.
   As used herein, HERITAGE PRESERVATION SITE shall mean any area, place,
building, structure, land, district or other object which has been duly
designated as a heritage preservation site in accordance with §
1301.04 of this chapter.
§ 1301.03 COMMISSION CREATED.
   (A)   Members. There is hereby created and established a City Heritage
Preservation Commission (hereinafter, the “Commission”), which shall consist of
no less than five, and no more than nine, voting members to be appointed by the
Mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the City Council. The Chairperson
of the city’s Planning Commission or his or her designees shall be ex officio
non-voting members of the Commission. Any member appointed to serve on the
Heritage Preservation Commission shall be a resident of the city and shall have
a demonstrated interest and/or expertise in historic preservation.
   (B)   Term. The Mayor and City Council shall initially appoint one member to
serve a term of one year, two members to serve a term of two years and two
members to serve a term of three years. Terms of office shall expire on March 1
in the year following their last full year of appointment. All subsequent
appointments shall be for a term of three years. Members may be re-appointed
for consecutive terms. In the event of a vacancy, the vacancy for the unexpired
term shall be filled in the same manner as the appointment is made. Members
shall serve without compensation and, if a successor has not been appointed by
the end of their term, shall continue to hold office until their successors
have been appointed.
   (C)   Organization. The Commission, when formed, shall elect from its
members such officers, as it may deem necessary. The Commission shall have the
power to designate and appoint from its members various committees. The
Commission shall make such by-laws as it may deem advisable and necessary for
the conduct of its affairs and for the purpose of carrying out the intent of
this chapter which are not inconsistent with the laws of the city and the
state. The Commission shall prepare an annual report by October 31 of each year
as required in accordance with M.S. § 471.193, Subd. 6, as it may be amended
from time to time, for submission to the state’s Historic Preservation Office
and shall file a copy with the City Administrator for distribution to the City
Council.
   (D)   Program assistance. To accomplish the intent and purpose of this
chapter, the city shall provide the Commission with staff support to perform
the duties prescribed under this chapter, including supervised public access to
the historical archives, records and files of the Commission and city.
§ 1301.04 DESIGNATION OF HERITAGE PRESERVATION SITES.
   (A)   Reports.
      (1)   The Commission shall ensure that an updated list of all areas,
places, buildings, structures, lands, districts or other objects which have
been designated as heritage preservation sites as well as an updated catalogue
of all known publications, articles, books, pamphlets, policies or other
materials having a direct bearing on the heritage preservation program for the
city are prepared, compiled and made reasonably available by city staff at City
Hall.
      (2)   The City Council, upon request of the Commission, may direct city
staff to prepare studies which catalog areas, places, buildings, structures,
lands, districts or other objects to be considered for designation as heritage
preservation sites.
   (B)   Criteria. All heritage preservation sites previously designated by the
city shall continue their designation under this chapter unless the Commission
specifically finds that any such site does not meet the designation criteria
provided in this division (B):
      (1)   Its character, interest or value as part of the development,
heritage or cultural characteristics of the city, state or the United States;
      (2)   Its location as a site of a significant historic event;
      (3)   Its identification with a person or persons who significantly
contributed to the culture and development of the city;
      (4)   Its embodiment of distinguishing characteristics of an
architectural style, period, form or treatment;
      (5)   Its identification as work of an architectural or master builder
whose individual work has influenced the development of the city;
      (6)   Its embodiment of elements of architectural design, detail,
materials or craftsmanship which represent a significant architectural
innovation; and
      (7)   Its unique location, scale or other physical characteristic
representing an established and familiar visual feature of a neighborhood, a
district, the community or the city.
   (C)   Proposed program for preservation. For each heritage preservation site
recommended to the City Council, a proposed program for rehabilitation and
preservation shall be created. The United States Secretary of the Interior
Standards for Rehabilitation, as listed in §
1301.05(C) of this chapter, shall be among the standards used to create such
programs.
   (D)   Hearings. Prior to the Commission recommending to the City Council any
area, place, building, structure, land, district or other object for
designation as a heritage preservation site, the Commission shall hold a public
hearing and seek the recommendations of all concerned citizens. Prior to such
hearing, the Commission shall cause to be published in the city’s official
newspaper a notice of the hearing at least ten days prior to the date of the
hearing, and notice of the hearing shall be mailed at least ten days before the
day of the hearing to all owners of record of the property or properties
proposed to be designated as a heritage preservation site and to all owners of
property situated wholly or partly within 350 feet of the heritage preservation
site. The Commission may make such modifications concerning the proposed
designation as it deems necessary in consideration of the comments of the
citizens.
   (E)   Findings and recommendations. The Commission shall determine if a
proposed site is eligible for designation as a heritage preservation site as
determined by the criteria specified in division (B) above. In accordance with
M.S. § 471.193, as it may be amended from time to time, the Commission shall
send to the State Historical Society/State Historic Preservation Office any
proposed designation of a heritage preservation site, including boundaries, and
the proposed program for the preservation of the heritage preservation site.
The Commission may make such modifications concerning the proposed designation
as it deems necessary in consideration of the comments of the State Historical
Society/State Historic Preservation Office.
   (F)   Planning Commission review. If the Commission recommends that the
proposed site be designated as a heritage preservation site, the Commission
shall transmit to the city’s Planning Commission its recommendation, including
boundaries, and the proposed program for the preservation of the heritage
preservation site. The Commission shall request from the city’s Planning
Commission its comments on the proposed designation as a heritage preservation
site relative to the city’s Zoning Code and Comprehensive Plan of the city and
any other valid city planning considerations relevant to the proposed
designation. The City Planning Commission’s comments shall become part of the
official record concerning the proposed designation and shall be submitted by
the Heritage Preservation Commission along with its recommendation concerning
the proposed designation to the City Council. The Heritage Preservation
Commission may make such modifications concerning the proposed designation as
it deems necessary in consideration of the comments of the city’s Planning
Commission.
   (G)   Council designation hearings. The City Council, upon the request of
the Commission, may designate, by ordinance, a heritage preservation site. Such
an ordinance shall require a two-thirds’ vote of all members of the City
Council to be effective.
   (H)   Council approval. The Commission shall make no application to the
National Register or to the state for the designation of a historic property or
district without the consent of the City Council.
   (I)   Identification plaque. Those buildings or structures having been
designated as historic preservation sites by the City Council may be awarded a
numbered plaque to be displayed on the exterior of the site in full public view
with the owner’s consent. The plaque is to remain the property of the city and
shall be removed by request of the Commission should the site be so altered as
to destroy the historic integrity of the site.
   (J)   Designated heritage preservation sites. Pursuant to the procedures set
forth in this section, the following parcels are designated as heritage
preservation sites:
      (1)   1879 Courthouse/Henderson Community Building;
      (2)   Poehler residence/Sibley County Historical Society
      (3)   North 5th Street Municipal Power Plant/City Civil Defense Building;
      (4)   Saint Jude’s Church/Public Library; and
      (5)   Joseph R. Brown Historic Home at South Fifth Street.
§ 1301.05 REVIEW OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Site alteration permit. Site alteration permit shall be required for
any alteration of any designated heritage preservation site. The Commission
shall review and approve or disapprove the city’s issuance of a site alteration
permit to do any of the following in a heritage preservation site in the city.
In addition to any other specifics the Zoning Administrator may require, the
site alteration permit application shall be accompanied by detailed plans
including a property plan, building elevations and design details and materials
as necessary to evaluate the request. Besides the site alteration permit,
regular city permits shall be required. The following are subject to a site
alteration permit:
      (1)   Painting, architectural details and other related exterior
alterations;
      (2)   Addition or deletion of awnings, shutters, canopies and similar
appurtenances;
      (3)   Application or use of exterior materials of a different kind, type,
color, texture than those already in use which will substantially cover one or
more sides of the structure. This provision applies to roofing as well as
siding;
      (4)   Signs;
      (5)   Construction of a new building or auxiliary structure;
      (6)   Any addition to or alteration of an existing structure which
increases the square footage in the structure or otherwise alters its size,
height, contour or outline;
      (7)   Change or alteration of a structure’s architectural style;
      (8)   Alteration of a roof line; and
      (9)   Demolition in whole or in part. This does not apply to structures
required to be demolished in accordance with M.S. Ch. 463 (Building Line
Easements; Building Regulations; and Hazardous Buildings), as it may be amended
from time to time.
   (B)   City actions. The Commission shall review and make recommendations to
the City Council concerning city activity that could change the nature or
appearance of a heritage preservation site.
   (C)   Preservation program. All decisions of the Commission with respect to
this section shall be in accordance with the approved program for the
rehabilitation of each heritage preservation site. The Secretary of the
Interior Standards for Rehabilitation shall be used to evaluate applications
for site alteration permits as follows.
      (1)   The historic character of a property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of distinctive materials or alteration of features,
spaces and spatial relationships that characterize a property shall be avoided.
      (2)   Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of its time,
place and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical development,
such as adding conjectural features or elements from other historic properties,
shall not be undertaken.
      (3)   Changes to a property that have acquired historic significance in
their own right shall be retained and preserved.
      (4)   Distinctive materials, features, finishes and construction
techniques or examples of craftsmanship that characterize a property shall be
preserved.
      (5)   Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a
distinctive feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color,
texture and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing features shall
be substantiated by documentary and physical evidence.
      (6)   Chemical or physical treatments, if appropriate, shall be
undertaken using the gentlest means possible. Treatments that cause damage to
historic materials shall not be used.
      (7)   New additions, exterior alterations or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials, features and spatial relationships that
characterize the property. The new work shall be differentiated from the old
and shall be compatible with the historic materials, features, size, scale and
proportion, and massing to protect the integrity of the property and its
environment.
      (8)   New additions and adjacent or related new construction shall be
undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future the essential form
and integrity of the historic property and its environment would be unimpaired.
§ 1301.06 FINDINGS.
   Before approving any permit or application required under §
1301.05 of this chapter, the Commission shall make findings based on the
program for preservation of the heritage preservation site in regard to the
following:
   (A)   In the case of a proposed alteration or addition to existing
buildings. The Commission shall make written findings on how the structure may
be architecturally or historically affected considering the existing exterior
appearance, building height, building width, depth or other dimensions, roof
style, type of building materials, ornamentation, paving and setback;
   (B)   In the case of the proposed demolition of a building prior to approval
of the demolition, the Commission shall make written findings on the following:
architectural and historic merit of the building; the effect on surrounding
buildings; the effect of any new proposed construction on the remainder of the
building (in case of partial demolition) and on surrounding buildings; the
economic value or usefulness of the building as it now exists or, if altered or
modified, in comparison with the value or usefulness of any proposed structures
designated to replace the present building or buildings; and
   (C)   In the case of a proposed new building, the Commission shall make
written findings on how the building will in itself, or by reason of its
location on the property, materially affect the architectural or historic value
of buildings on adjacent sites or in the immediate vicinity within the heritage
preservation site.
§ 1301.07 APPEAL TO THE CITY COUNCIL.
   The applicant for a site alteration permit or any other party aggrieved by
the decision of the Commission relative to a site alteration permit shall,
within ten working days of the date of the Commission’s order and decision,
have a right to appeal such order and decision to the City Council. The appeal
shall be deemed perfected upon receipt by the City Clerk of a notice of appeal
and statement setting forth the grounds for the appeal. The City Clerk shall
transmit a copy of the notice of appeal and statement to the City Council and a
copy to the Commission. The City Council may overturn the Commission’s order
and decision by a two-thirds’ vote of all members of the City Council. The
Commission, in any written order denying a permit application, shall advise the
applicant of the applicant’s right to appeal to the City Council and shall
include this section in all such orders.
§ 1301.08 LIMITATIONS.
   If, within 45 days from the filing of a site alteration permit application,
the Commission has neither approved nor denied the site alteration permit
application, the plans and permit application shall be deemed to have been
approved by the Commission, and if all other requirements of the city have been
met, the city shall authorize a permit for the proposed work. No permit shall
be issued, nor work commenced, in the event the Commission disapproves the site
alteration permit application in accordance with this chapter.
§ 1301.09 EMERGENCY REPAIR.
   In emergency situations where immediate repair is needed to protect the
safety of a building or structure and its inhabitants, the City Administrator
and City Building Official may approve the repair without prior Commission
action. In the case of an emergency repair permit issued pursuant to this
section, the City Administrator shall immediately notify the Commission of its
action and specify the facts or conditions constituting the emergency
situation.
§ 1301.10 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   In case any building or structure subject to the regulation of this
chapter is to be erected or constructed, reconstructed, altered, repaired,
converted, maintained, moved or subjected to demolition in violation of this
chapter, the Zoning Administrator, in addition to any other remedies, may:
      (1)   Institute civil action for injunctive relief to stop, prevent or
abate a violation of this chapter; and
      (2)   Issue a stop work order to prevent a continuing violation of this
chapter.
   (B)   Work which proceeds in violation of this chapter, in contravention of
a stop work order, or in disregard of a court ordered injunction shall be a
public nuisance.
§ 1301.11 ADDITIONAL POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   The Commission shall have the following powers and duties in addition to
those otherwise specified in this chapter.
   (A)   The Commission shall conduct a continuing survey of all areas, places,
buildings, structures, lands, districts or other objects in the city which the
Commission, on the basis of information available or presented to it, has
reason to believe are significant to the culture, social, economic, political
or architectural history of the city.
   (B)   The Commission shall continually survey all areas to determine needed
and desirable improvements of older buildings throughout the city, acting in a
resource and advisory capacity to owners of historically significant sites
regarding their preservation, restoration and rehabilitation.
   (C)   The Commission shall work for the continuing education of the citizens
of the city with respect to the civic and architectural heritage of the city.
It shall keep current a public register of designated and proposed heritage
preservation sites, along with the plans and programs that pertain to them.
   (D)   The Commission may recommend to the city the acceptance of gifts and
contributions to be made to the city and to assist the city staff in the
preparation of applications for grant funds to be made through the city for the
purpose of heritage preservation. Any contributions or gifts will be expended
in the manner provided through the fiscal policy of the city.
§ 1301.12 REPOSITORY FOR DOCUMENTS.
   The office of the City Clerk is designated as the repository for at least
one copy of all studies, reports, recommendations and programs required under
this section. These files will be maintained in accordance with M.S. § 138.17,
as it may be amended from time to time.
§ 1301.13 RECORDING OF HERITAGE PRESERVATION SITES.
   The office of the City Clerk shall record or file with the County Recorder
or Registrar of Titles the legal description of all properties designated as
heritage preservation sites by the city.
CHAPTER XIV: LICENSING OF ADULT USES AND SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
Part I. Findings and Purposes
   
1401.01   Purpose and findings
Part II. Definitions
   
1402.01   Definitions
Part III. Licenses
   
1403.01   License required
   
1403.02   Applications
   
1403.03   License fees
   
1403.04   Granting of license
   
1403.05   Persons ineligible for license
   
1403.06   Places ineligible for license
   
1403.07   Non-conforming uses
   
1403.08   Conditions of license - generally
   
1403.09   Conditions of license - adult use principal
   
1403.10   Conditions of license - adult use accessory
   
1403.11   Revocation, suspension or non-renewal of license
Part IV. Sign Restrictions
   
1404.01   Regulations
   
1404.02   Penalty
   
1404.03   Severability
PART I. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES
§ 1401.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to control, through licensing and other
regulations, certain land uses that have a direct and detrimental effect on the
character of the city’s residential and commercial neighborhoods.
   (B)   The City Council makes the following findings about the effect adult
uses and sexually-oriented businesses have on the character of the city’s
neighborhoods. In making the findings, the City Council accepts the
recommendations of staff that has studied the experiences of other areas about
such businesses. Based on studies and findings, the City Council concludes the
following.
      (1)   Adult uses and sexually-oriented businesses can contribute to an
increase in crime in the area where such businesses are located. This can be a
burden to city crime-prevention programs and law enforcement services.
      (2)   Adult uses and sexually-oriented businesses can significantly
contribute to the deterioration of residential neighborhoods and can increase
neighborhood blight. These businesses also can impair the character and quality
of the residential housing in the area where such businesses are. This
situation could lessen the amount of desirable housing for residents.
      (3)   The concentration of adult uses and sexually-oriented businesses in
one area can greatly affect the area where such businesses are concentrated and
on the quality of city life. A cycle of decay can result from the influx of
adult uses and sexually-oriented businesses. Others may perceive the presence
of such businesses as an indication that the area is deteriorating and the
result can be devastating. That is, other businesses move out of the vicinity
and residents flee from the area. Lower property values, which can result from
the concentration of such businesses, erode the city’s tax base and contribute
to blight.
      (4)   Adult uses and sexually-oriented businesses have adverse secondary
impacts of the types discussed above.
      (5)   It is necessary to provide for the special and express regulation
of businesses, establishments or commercial enterprises that operate as adult
body painting studios, adult bookstores, adult cabarets, adult car washes,
adult companionship establishments, adult hotels or motels, adult massage
parlors or health clubs, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult modeling
studios, adult motion picture arcades or theaters, adult novelty businesses,
adult saunas and similar adult-oriented services operating under different
names to protect the public health, safety and welfare, and to guard against
the inception and transmission of disease.
      (6)   The commercial enterprises such as the types described in division
(B)(5) above and all other similar establishments whose services include
sessions offered to adults conducted in private by members of the same or
opposite sex, and employing personnel with no specialized training, are
susceptible to operations contravening, subverting or endangering the morals of
the city by being the site of acts of prostitution, illicit sex and occasions
of violent crimes, and thus requiring close inspection, licensing and
regulation.
      (7)   Control and regulation of commercial establishments of these types,
in view of the abuses often perpetrated, require intensive efforts by the
Police Department and other departments of the city. It is necessary for the
city to provide services to all of the city without concentrating the public
services in one area. The concentrated use of city services detracts from and
reduces the level of service available to the rest of the city. Thus, these
types of establishments can diminish the ability of the city to protect and
promote the general health, welfare, morals and safety of the city.
      (8)   The City Council adopts the following land use and licensing
regulations, recognizing that it has an interest in the present and future
character of the city’s residential and commercial neighborhoods. These
regulations are to lessen the detrimental and adverse affects adult uses and
sexually-oriented businesses have on the use of adjacent land, and to protect
and promote the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city.
      (9)   It is not the intent of the City Council to prohibit adult uses or
sexually-oriented businesses or establishments from having an opportunity to
locate in the city. It also is not the intent of the City Council to regulate
these businesses because of content, but only on the basis of likely adverse
secondary effects.
PART II. DEFINITIONS
§ 1402.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT USES. Adult body painting studios, adult bookstores, adult cabaret,
adult car wash, adult hotels or motels, adult motion picture theaters, adult
mini-motion picture theaters, adult massage parlors, adult health/sports clubs,
adult saunas/steam rooms/bath houses, adult companionship establishments, adult
rap/conversation parlors, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture
arcades, adult modeling studios and all other premises, enterprises,
establishments, businesses and places open to some or all members of the public
at or in which there is an emphasis on the presentation, display, depiction or
description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas which
the public could see. This definition does not apply to the practice of
medicine, surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy or podiatry by
state-licensed or registered persons. Activities classified as obscene, as
defined by M.S. § 617.241, as it may be amended from time to time, are not
lawful and are not included in the definition of ADULT USES.
   ADULT USE - ACCESSORY. The offering of goods and/or services classified as
adult uses on a limited scale that is incidental to the primary activity and
goods and/or services offered by the establishment. Examples of such items
include adult magazines, adult movies, adult novelties and the like.
   ADULT USES - PRINCIPAL. The offering of goods and/or services classified as
adult uses as a primary or sole activity of a business or establishment, and
include, but are not limited to, the following.
      (1)   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIOS. An establishment or business that
provides the service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent
or non-transparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORES. An establishment, building or business engaging
in the barter, rental or sale of items or merchandise consisting of printed
matter, pictures, slides, records, audiotapes, videotapes, computer or video
disks, motion picture film or any other similar materials, if such a shop is
not open to the public generally, but only to one or more classes of the
public, excluding any minor because of age, if more than 20% of the usable
floor area of the establishment, building or business, or it at least 500
square feet, whichever is smaller, has products or materials distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing or related to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET. An establishment, building or business that provides
dancing or other live entertainment if such dancing or other live entertainment
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the performance,
presentation, display, depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas.
      (4)   ADULT CAR WASH. A wash facility for any type of motor vehicle that
allows employees, agents, independent contractors or persons to appear in a
state of partial or total nudity in terms of specified anatomical areas.
      (5)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment or business if
such establishment excludes minors because of age, or which provides the
service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between
an employee of the establishment and a customer, if such service is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (6)   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. A building or space in which an
admission is charged for entrance, or food or non-alcoholic beverages are sold
or intended for consumption, and in which may be observed live presentation of
entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (7)   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment, building or business
engaging in any of the following activities or which uses any of the following
business procedures or practices, either:
         (a)   Any business conducted exclusively for the patronage of adults
and about which minors are specifically excluded from patronage thereat either
by law or by the operators of such business; or
         (b)   Any other business that offers its patrons services, products or
entertainment characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, exposing,
describing, discussing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas. Specifically included in the term, but without limitation,
are adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture
theaters, adult massage parlors, adult health clubs, adult saunas, adult
companionship establishments, adult health clubs, adult cabarets, adult car
washes, adult novelty businesses, adult motion picture arcades, adult modeling
studios, adult hotel or motel and adult body painting studios.
      (8)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel from which minors are
specifically excluded from patronage and in which material is presented that is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (9)   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A massage parlor or
health/sport club that restrict minors because of age, which provide the
services of massage, if such service is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (10)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business, building or
establishment in an enclosed building with a capacity for less than 50 persons
used for presenting visual media material if such business as a prevailing
practice excludes minors by virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
      (11)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO. An establishment or business whose major
business is the provision, to customers, of figure models who are so provided
with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to such
customers who engage in specified sexual activities or display specified
anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed or otherwise depicted by such customers.
      (12)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any building or place to which the
public is allowed or invited in which coin- or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically or mechanically controlled still or motion picture machines,
projectors, computers or other image-producing devices that show images to five
or fewer persons per machine at once, and where the images so displayed are
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or describing
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (13)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATERS. A business premises within an
enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting
visual media material is said business as a prevailing practice excludes minors
by virtue of age, or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
      (14)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business that has at least 20% of its
floor area as a principal activity the sale of materials or devices that
stimulate human genitals or devices designed for sexual stimulation or which
depict or relate to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (15)   ADULT SAUNA/STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE. A sauna/steam room/bathhouse
that excludes minors because of age, or which provides a steam bath or heat
bathing room used for bathing, pleasure, relaxation or reducing, utilizing
steam or hot air as a cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the service
provided by the sauna/steam room/bathhouse is distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   LICENSED FAMILY DAY-CARE, HOME and LICENSED GROUP FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME and
LICENSED CHILD-CARE CENTER. A facility holding a license from the county or the
state pursuant to M.S. Ch. 245A, as it may be amended from time to time, and/or
Minn. Rules Ch. 9502 or Ch. 9503, as amended.
   MINOR. Any natural person under the age of 18 years.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less that a fully opaque covering; the showing of the female breast with less
than a fully opaque covering of any portion thereof below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; or the depiction or showing of the covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
   PLACE OF WORSHIP. A building or space that is principally used as a place
where people of the same faith or religion regularly assemble for worship.
   PUBLIC LIBRARY. Any library that provides free access to all residents of a
city or county without discrimination and is organized under the provisions of
M.S. Ch. 134, as it may be amended from time to time.
   PUBLIC PARK. A park, reservation, open space, playground, beach or
recreation or community center in the city, owned, leased or used, wholly or in
part, by a city, county, state, school district or federal government for
recreation purposes.
   SCHOOL. A building or space that is principally used as a place where 25 or
more persons receive a full course of educational instruction. Any post-
secondary or post-high school educational building, including any college or
any vocational, technical college, shall not be deemed a SCHOOL for purposes of
this chapter.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. An adult book store, adult body painting studio,
adult car wash, adult cabaret, adult hotel or motel, adult companionship
establishment, adult motion picture theater, adult mini-motion picture theater,
adult massage parlor, adult entertainment facility, adult health or sports
clubs, adult novelty business, adult modeling studio or adult sauna, as defined
herein. Activities classified as obscene as defined by M.S. § 617.241, as it
may be amended from time to time, are not lawful and are not included in the
definition of adult uses.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Anatomical areas consisting of:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered genitals, pubic region or
pubic hair, buttock, anus or female breast or breasts below a point immediately
above the top of the areola or any combination of the foregoing; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Activities consisting of the following:
      (1)   Actual or simulated sexual intercourse, oral copulation, anal
intercourse, oral-anal copulation, bestiality, direct physical stimulation or
fondling of unclothed genitals, pubic region, buttock or female breast,
flagellation or torture in a sexual relationship or the use of excretory
functions in a sexual relationship, and any of the following sexually-oriented
acts or conduct: anilingus; buggery; coprophagy; coprophilia; cunnilingus;
fellatio; necrophilia; pederasty; pedophilia; piquerism; sapphism; sodomy;
zooerasty;
      (2)   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation, arousal or
tumescence;
      (3)   Use or acts of human or animal ejaculation, sexual intercourse,
sodomy, oral copulation, coitus or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of human genitals, pubic region or pubic hair,
buttocks or female breast or breasts;
      (5)   Stimulation involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude,
clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, who are engaged in
activities involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other
physical restraint of any such person;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually-oriented
contact with an animal by a human being;
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation; or
      (8)   Any combination of the above.
PART III. LICENSES
§ 1403.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall own or operate an adult use or
sexually-oriented business in the city without having first secured a license
as provided herein.
   (B)   Licenses shall be one of two types:
      (1)   Adult use principal; or
      (2)   Adult use accessory.
§ 1403.02 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The city shall prepare an application for an adult use principal or
sexually-oriented business license.
   (B)   This application shall include:
      (1)   The name, residence, phone number and birth date of the applicant,
if an individual; and if a corporation, the names, residences, phone numbers
and birth dates of those owners holding more than 5% of the issued and
outstanding stock of the corporation;
      (2)   The name, address, phone number and birth date of the operator and
manager of such operation, if different from the owners;
      (3)   The address and legal description of the building, establishment or
premises where the adult use or sexually-oriented business is to be located;
      (4)   A statement detailing each gross misdemeanor or felony relating to
a sex offense and/or the operation of adult uses and related activities of
which the applicant or, for a corporation, the owners of more than 5% of the
outstanding stock of the corporation, have been convicted and whether the
applicant has ever applied for or held a license to operate a similar type of
business in other cities;
      (5)   The activities and types of business to be conducted;
      (6)   The hours of operation;
      (7)   The provisions made to restrict access by minors;
      (8)   A building plan of the premises detailing all internal operations
and activities; and
      (9)   A description or building plan that details all proposed interior
and exterior changes to an existing building or structure.
§ 1403.03 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a receipt from
the city’s Finance Director for payment in full of the required application and
investigative fee for the license as established by the City Council. All fees
shall be paid into the General Fund of the city.
   (B)   All licenses shall expire on December 31 in each year. The city shall
issue each license for one year; except that, if part of the license year has
elapsed when the application is made, the city may issue a license for the
remainder of the year for a prorated fee. In computing such fee, the city shall
count any unexpired fraction of a month as one month.
   (C)   The annual fee for an adult use or sexually-oriented business license
shall be as established by the City Council.
   (D)   No part of the fee paid for a license issued under this chapter shall
be refunded, except in the following instances upon application to the City
Manager within 30 days from the happening of the event. The city shall refund a
prorated portion of the fee for the unexpired period of the license, computed
monthly, when operation of the licensed business ceases not less than one month
before expiration of the license because of:
      (1)   Destruction or damage of the licensed premises by fire or other
catastrophe;
      (2)   The licensee’s illness;
      (3)   The licensee’s death; and
      (4)   A change in the legal status making unlawful for the licensed
business to continue.
   (E)   Each application shall contain a provision on the application in bold
print stating that any withholding of information or the providing of false or
misleading information will be grounds for the denial or revocation of a
license. Any changes in the information provided on the application or provided
during the investigation shall be reported to the City Council by the
application or licensee. If the changes take place during the investigation,
the data shall be provided to the city’s Chief of Police or City Administrator
in writing, and they shall report the changes to the City Council. Failure to
report said changes by the applicant(s) or the licensee may result in a denial
or revocation of a license.
§ 1403.04 GRANTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The city shall investigate all facts set out in the application. After
the city finishes its investigation, the city shall hold a public hearing and
shall give everyone to be heard for or against the granting of the license a
chance to present his or her views. After the investigation and public hearing,
but under no circumstances longer than 120 days application is made, the City
Council shall grant or refuse the application.
   (B)   The city shall only issue the license to the applicant. The license
shall not be transferred to another holder. The city shall only issue each
license for the premises or location described in the application. No license
may be transferred to another place without the approval of the City Council.
§ 1403.05 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   The city shall not grant a license to, nor may one be held by, any person
who:
   (A)   Is under 21 years of age;
   (B)   Has been convicted of a felony or of violating any state law;
   (C)   Is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the license is
issued;
   (D)   Has not paid the license and investigative fees required by this
chapter;
   (E)   Is not a citizen of the United States;
   (F)   Has had an adult use or similar license or permit revoked under an
ordinance or statute similar to this; and/or
   (G)   Already holds a liquor license for the same premises.
§ 1403.06 PLACES INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   No license shall be granted for adult uses or sexually-oriented
business on any premises where a licensee has been convicted of a violation of
this chapter, or where any license hereunder has been revoked for cause, until
one year has elapsed after such conviction or revocation.
   (B)   Except uses lawfully existing at the time of this chapter adoption, no
license shall be granted for any adult use or sexually-oriented business that
does not meet all city code requirements, all Building and Fire Code
requirements and all provisions of state and federal law.
   (C)   No licenses shall be granted for any adult use or sexually-oriented
business where the licensee has been granted a liquor license for the same
premises.
§ 1403.07 NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Any adult use or sexually-oriented business existing on the effective date
of the adoption of this chapter may be continued subject to the following
provisions.
   (A)   No such adult use or sexually-oriented business shall be expanded or
enlarged, except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   A non-conforming adult use or sexually-oriented business shall be
required to apply for and receive an adult use license from the city. The city
does not require a public hearing before issuing a license for the non-
conforming adult use or sexually-oriented business.
§ 1403.08 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE - GENERALLY.
   (A)   Every license shall be granted subject to the conditions in the
following subdivisions and all other provisions of this chapter, and of any
applicable sections of the city code, state and federal law.
   (B)   All licensed premises shall have the license posted in a conspicuous
place.
   (C)   No minor shall be allowed in or on the premises of an adult use or
sexually-oriented business.
   (D)   Any designated inspection officer or law enforcement officer of the
city shall have the right to enter, inspect and search the premises of a
licensee during business hours.
   (E)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his or her
place of business and shall maintain conditions of this chapter and the city
code.
   (F)   No adult goods, materials or services shall be offered, sold,
transferred, conveyed, given, displayed or bartered to any minor.
§ 1403.09 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE - ADULT USE PRINCIPAL.
   The city permits adult use principal and sexually-oriented businesses only
in the C-1 and C-2 (Commercial) Zoning Districts subject to the following
conditions.
   (A)   No adult use principal or sexually-oriented business shall be located
closer than 500 feet from any other adult use principal or sexually-oriented
business in the city. Measurements shall be made in a straight line, without
regard to city boundaries, intervening structures or objects, from the nearest
point of the actual business premises of the adult use principal or sexually-
oriented business to the nearest point of the actual business premises of any
other adult use principal or sexually-oriented business.
   (B)   No adult use principal or sexually-oriented business shall be located
closer than 300 feet from any place of worship, school, public park, open
space, licensed family day-care home, licensed group family day-care home,
public library or licensed child-care or day-care center in any city.
Measurements shall be made in a straight line, without regard to city
boundaries, intervening structures or objects, from the nearest point of the
actual business premises of the adult use principal or sexually-oriented
business to the nearest property line of the premises or building used as a
place of worship, school, public park, open space, licensed family day-care
home, licensed group family day-care home, public library or licensed child-
care or day-care center.
   (C)   All adult uses and sexually-oriented businesses must follow all of
this code.
   (D)   The city prohibits any building owner or operator from having more
than one of the following uses, tenants or activities in the same building or
structure:
      (1)   Adult body painting studio;
      (2)   Adult book store;
      (3)   Adult cabaret;
      (4)   Adult car wash;
      (5)   Adult companionship establishment;
      (6)   Adult entertainment facility;
      (7)   Adult hotel or motel;
      (8)   Adult modeling studio;
      (9)   Adult sauna/steam room/bath house;
      (10)   Adult motion picture theater;
      (11)   Adult mini-motion picture theater;
      (12)   Adult massage parlor;
      (13)   Adult health/sports club;
      (14)   Adult novelty business; and
      (15)   Any business or establishment in which there is an emphasis on the
presentation, display, depiction or description of specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas that the public could see.
   (E)   An adult use principal and sexually-oriented business shall not sell
or dispense non-intoxicating or intoxicating liquors, nor shall it be located
in a building that contains a business that sells or dispenses non-intoxicating
or intoxicating liquors.
   (F)   No adult use principal and sexually-oriented business entertainment
shall engage in any activity or conduct or permit any other person to engage in
any activity or conduct in or about the adult use establishment that is
prohibited by an ordinance of the city, the laws of the state or the United
States of America. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as authorizing or
permitting conduct that is prohibited or regulated by other statutes,
ordinances, including, but not limited to, statutes or ordinances prohibiting
the exhibition, sale or distribution of obscene material generally, or the
exhibition, sale or distribution of specified materials to minors.
   (G)   No adult use principal or sexually-oriented businesses shall be
conducted in any manner that permits the perception or observation from any
property not approved as an adult use of any materials depicting, describing or
related to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas by any
visual or auditory media, including display, decoration, sign, show window,
sound transmission or other means.
   (H)   All adult use principal and sexually-oriented businesses shall
prominently display a sign at the entrance and located within two feet of the
door-opening device of the adult-use establishment or section of the
establishment devoted to adult books or materials which states: “This business
sells or displays material containing adult themes. Persons under age 18 years
of age shall not enter.”
   (I)   No person under the age of 18 shall be permitted on or in the premises
of an adult use or sexually-oriented business establishment. No person under
the age of 18 shall be permitted access to material displayed, offered for
sale, given, transferred, conveyed or rented by an adult use or sexually-
oriented business.
   (J)   Adult use principal and sexually-oriented businesses shall be open no
longer that between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on the days of
Monday through Saturday, and closed on Sunday.
§ 1403.10 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE - ADULT USE ACCESSORY.
   The city may issue adult use accessory licenses to businesses or
establishments located in the C-1 or C-2 Zoning Districts subject to the
following requirements.
   (A)   The adult use accessory shall comprise no more than 20% of the floor
area, or up to 500 square feet, whichever is smaller, of the establishment,
space, structure or building in which it is located.
   (B)   Display areas for adult movie or video tape rentals or other products
shall be restricted from general view and shall be located within a separate
room, for which the access is in clear view and in the control of the person
responsible for the operation.
   (C)   Magazines and publications or other similar products classified or
qualified as adult uses shall not be accessible to minors and shall be covered
with a wrapper or other means to prevent display of any materials other than
the publication title.
   (D)   Adult use accessory shall be prohibited from both internal and
external advertising and signing of adult materials and products.
§ 1403.11 REVOCATION, SUSPENSION OR NON-RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Council may revoke, suspend or not renew a license upon
recommendation of the City Administrator that shows the licensee, its owners,
managers, employees, agents or any other interested parties have engaged in any
of the following conduct:
      (1)   Fraud, deception or misrepresentation about securing the license;
      (2)   Habitual drunkenness or intemperance in the use of drugs,
including, but not limited to, the use of drugs defined in M.S. Ch. 152, as it
may be amended from time to time, barbiturates, hallucinogenic drugs,
amphetamines, Benzedrine, Dexedrine or other sedatives, depressants, stimulants
or tranquilizers;
      (3)   Engaging in conduct involving moral turpitude or permitting or
allowing others within their employ or agency to engage in conduct involving
moral turpitude or failing to prevent agents, officers or employees in engaging
in conduct involving moral turpitude;
      (4)   Failure to follow any requirements of the ordinances of the city
about sanitary and safety conditions, zoning requirements, building code
requirements or ordinances, the violation of which involves moral turpitude or
failure to follow the requirements of this chapter; and
      (5)   Conviction of an offense involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   (1)   The license holder may appeal any suspension, revocation or non-
renewal to the City Council. The Council shall consider the appeal at a
regularly scheduled public hearing on or after ten days from service of the
notice of appeal to the City Administrator.
      (2)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Council may order:
         (a)   The revocation, suspension or non-renewal be affirmed;
         (b)   The revocation, suspension or non-renewal be lifted and that the
license be returned to the license holder; and
         (c)   The Council may impose, at its discretion, any additional terms,
conditions or stipulations for the suspension or issuance of the license.
PART IV. SIGN RESTRICTIONS
§ 1404.01 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The following sign regulations shall apply to all adult use and
sexually-oriented businesses in the city. These regulations are to protect
children from exposure to sexually-oriented or shocking signs and materials and
to preserve the value of property near adult use and sexually-oriented
businesses.
   (B)   These regulations are aside from any other provision of the city code.
      (1)   All signs shall be flat wall or freestanding signs. No signs shall
be located on the roof, or
contain any flashing lights, moving elements or electronically or mechanically
changing messages.
      (2)   The city’s sign regulations for the zoning district where the
business is located, shall regulate the amount of allowable sign area and the
number of allowed signs for an adult use or sexually-oriented business.
      (3)   No merchandise, photos or pictures of the products or entertainment
on the premises shall be displayed in window areas or any area where they can
be viewed from the sidewalk or public right-of-way adjoining the building or
structure in which the adult use or sexually-oriented business is located.
      (4)   No signs shall be placed in any window. A two square-foot sign may
be placed on the door to state hours of operation and admittance to adults
only.
§ 1404.02 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished not more than the maximum
penalty for a misdemeanor as prescribed by state law.
§ 1404.03 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this code amendment
is for any reason held to be invalid, such decision shall not affect the
validity of the remaining portions of this code amendment. The Council declares
that it would have adopted the code amendment and each section, division,
sentence, clause or phrase of it, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, divisions, sentences, clauses or phrases are declared invalid.
CHAPTER XV: PUBLIC SAFETY REGARDING DESIGNATED PREDATORY OFFENDERS
Section
Part I. Findings and Purposes
   
1501.01   Purpose
   
1501.02   Findings
Part II. Definitions
   
1502.01   Definitions
Part III. Prohibited Acts
   
1503.01   Prohibited location of residence
   
1503.02   Measurement of distance
   
1503.03   Exceptions
   
1503.04   Property owners prohibited from renting real property to designated
predatory offenders in exclusion zones
Part IV. Penalty
   
1504.01   Penalty
   
1504.02   Severability
PART I. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES
§ 1501.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council intends to serve the city’s compelling interest to
promote, protect and improve the health, safety and welfare of its citizens
under this chapter.
   (B)   It is the express intent of the City Council to further that interest
by: creating areas around locations where children regularly congregate in
concentrated numbers within which certain predatory offenders are prohibited
from establishing temporary or permanent residence; and, by mitigating the
concentration of certain predatory offenders, as recommended by M.S. § 244.052,
Subd. 4a, as it may be amended from time to time, by prohibiting certain
predatory offenders from establishing temporary or permanent residence within
close proximity to one another.
§ 1501.02 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The City Council finds that repeat predatory offenders present a real
threat to the public safety and especially to that of children.
   (B)   Certain predatory offenders are likely to use physical violence and
present a high risk to repeat their offenses, and most such predatory offenders
have committed many more offenses and have many more victims than are ever
reported and prosecuted.
   (C)   This makes dealing with the danger posed to the public safety and
especially that of children by those certain predatory offenders extremely
important.
PART II. DEFINITIONS
§ 1502.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DESIGNATED PREDATORY OFFENDER. Any person who is required to register as a
predatory offender under M.S. § 243.166, as it may be amended from time to
time, and who has been categorized as a Level III predatory offender under M.S.
§ 244.052, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time, a successor
statute, or similar statute from another state.
   LICENSED CHILD CARE FACILITY. A child care facility currently licensed by
the county’s Public Health and Human Services Department.
   PERMANENT RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges or resides for 14
or more consecutive days.
   PUBLIC PARK/PLAYGROUND. Any city-owned, or privately owned, but open to the
public areas, designed, equipped and set aside for children’s play and includes
in that area such facilities as play equipment, surfacing, fencing, signs,
internal pathways, internal land forms, vegetation and related structures.
   SCHOOL. A public or non-public preschool, elementary or secondary school.
   TEMPORARY RESIDENCE. A place where a person abides, lodges or resides for a
period of 14 or more days in the aggregate during any calendar year and which
is not the person’s permanent address or place where the person routinely
abides, lodges or resides for a period of four or more consecutive or non-
consecutive days in any month and which is not the person’s permanent
residence.
PART III. PROHIBITED ACTS
§ 1503.01 PROHIBITED LOCATION OF RESIDENCE.
   It is unlawful for any designated predatory offender to establish a
permanent residence or temporary residence within 2,000 feet of any of the
following:
   (A)   Public or private school;
   (B)   Licensed child care facility;
   (C)   Public park/playground;
   (D)   Place of worship which provides regular educational programs;
   (E)   Designated public school bus stop;
   (F)   Designated public trails;
   (G)   Public or private gymnasiums;
   (H)   Libraries;
   (I)   Public beaches;
   (J)   Sporting facilities (i.e., baseball fields, football fields, hockey
rinks, soccer fields and the like) where children are known to congregate; and
   (K)   The permanent or temporary residence of any other designated predatory
offender.
§ 1503.02 MEASUREMENT OF DISTANCE.
   For purposes of determining the minimum distance separation, the requirement
shall be measured by following a straight line from the outer property line of
the permanent residence or temporary residence to the nearest outer property
line of the properties listed in Part III of this chapter.
§ 1503.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   This part does not apply under the following circumstances:
   (A)   The designated predatory offender established the permanent residence
or temporary residence and reported and registered the residence pursuant to
M.S. §§ 243.166 and 243.167, as they may be amended from time to time, or a
successor statute, prior to 9-1-2015;
   (B)   The designated predatory offender was a minor when he or she committed
the offense and was not convicted as an adult;
   (C)   The designated predatory offender is a minor;
   (D)   The designated predatory offender has been granted a risk level
reduction by the End of Confinement Review Committee, pursuant to M.S. §
244.052, Subd. 3(i), as it may be amended from time to time;
   (E)   The school, licensed child care facility or public playground within
2,000 feet of the person’s permanent residence was opened after the designated
predatory offender established the permanent residence or temporary residence
and reported and registered the residence pursuant to M.S. §§ 243.1605 and
243.167, as they may be amended from time to time, or a successor statute;
   (F)   The residence is also the primary residence of the designated
predatory offender’s parents, grandparents, siblings or spouse, and was their
residence prior to 9-1-2015; and
   (G)   The residence is a property purchased, leased or contracted with and
licensed by the state’s Department of Corrections prior to 9-1-2015.
§ 1503.04 PROPERTY OWNERS PROHIBITED FROM RENTING REAL PROPERTY TO DESIGNATED
PREDATORY OFFENDERS IN EXCLUSION ZONES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any property owner to rent or lease real
estate to any designated predatory offender if the property is in the
prohibited zone established in Part III of this chapter. If a property owner
discovers or is informed that tenant is a designated offender after a rental
agreement is signed, a property owner shall commence eviction proceedings
against the designated offender and take action to ensure that the designated
offender is not residing in the exclusion zone.
   (B)   A property owner’s violation of this prohibition shall be punishable
as set forth in Part IV of this chapter.
PART IV. PENALTY
§ 1504.01 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be punished according to the laws
of the state. A violation of this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor. Each
day a person maintains a temporary or permanent residence in violation of this
chapter constitutes a separate violation.
§ 1504.02 SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter are severable and if any provision of this
chapter or application of any provision of this chapter due to any circumstance
is held invalid, the application of such provision to other circumstances and
the remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
CHAPTER XVI: CANNABINOID AND HEMP-DERIVED PRODUCTS
Section
Part I. General Provisions
   
1601.01   State law adopted
   
1601.02   Definitions
Part II. License and Registration
   
1602.01   License required
   
1602.02   Application for license
   
1602.03   License fees
   
1602.04   Local registration required
   
1602.05   Caps on licenses
Part III. Restrictions
   
1603.01   Restrictions on business and signs
Part IV. Compliance and Penalties
   
1604.01   Compliance checks
   
1604.02   Registration suspension and cancellation; notice to Office of
Cannabis, penalties
PART I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1601.01 STATE LAW ADOPTED.
   M.S. Ch. 342 shall be, and is hereby, incorporated into this chapter by
reference.
(Ord. 244, passed 10-23-2024)
§ 1601.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, all of the definitions contained in M.S. §
342.01 are incorporated by reference herein. The following terms shall have the
meanings given them, unless inconsistent with M.S. § 342.01, in which case,
those definitions in M.S. § 342.01, as they are amended from time to time,
shall control.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS CONCENTRATE. Cannabis concentrate that is approved for
sale by the office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the
office. ADULT-USE CANNABIS CONCENTRATE does not include any artificially
derived cannabinoid.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS FLOWER. Cannabis flower that is approved for sale by the
office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the office. ADULT-
USE CANNABIS FLOWER does not include medical cannabis flower, hemp plant parts,
or hemp-derived consumer products.
   ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCT. A cannabis product that is approved for sale by
the office or is substantially similar to a product approved by the office.
ADULT-USE CANNABIS PRODUCT includes edible cannabis products but does not
include medical cannabinoid products or lower-potency hemp edibles.
   ADVERTISEMENT. Any written or oral statement, illustration, or depiction
that is intended to promote sales of cannabis flower, cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer products, or sales at a specific
cannabis business or hemp business and includes any newspaper, radio, Internet
and electronic media, or television promotion; the distribution of fliers and
circulars; and the display of window and interior signs in a cannabis business.
ADVERTISEMENT does not include a fixed outdoor sign that meets the requirements
in M.S. § 342.64, Subd. 2(b).
   ARTIFICIALLY DERIVED CANNABINOID. A cannabinoid extracted from a cannabis
plant, cannabis flower, hemp plant, or hemp plant parts with a chemical makeup
that is changed after extraction to create a different cannabinoid or other
chemical compound by applying a catalyst other than heat or light. ARTIFICIALLY
DERIVED CANNABINOID includes but is not limited to any tetrahydrocannabinol
created from cannabidiol but does not include cannabis concentrate, cannabis
products, hemp concentrate, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived
consumer products.
   CANNABINOID. Any of the chemical constituents of hemp plants or cannabis
plants that are naturally occurring, biologically active, and act on the
cannabinoid receptors of the brain. CANNABINOID includes but is not limited to
tetrahydrocannabinol and cannabidiol.
   CANNABINOID EXTRACTION. The process of extracting cannabis concentrate from
cannabis plants or cannabis flower using heat, pressure, water, lipids, gases,
solvents, or other chemicals or chemical processes, but does not include the
process of extracting concentrate from hemp plants or hemp plant parts or the
process of creating any artificially derived cannabinoid.
   CANNABINOID PRODUCT. A cannabis product, a hemp-derived consumer product, or
a lower-potency hemp edible.
   CANNABINOID PROFILE. The amounts of each cannabinoid that the office
requires to be identified in testing and labeling, including but not limited to
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, tetrahydrocannabinolic acid, cannabidiol, and
cannabidiolic acid in cannabis flower, a cannabis product, a batch of
artificially derived cannabinoid, a lower-potency hemp edible, a hemp-derived
consumer product, or a hemp-derived topical product expressed as percentages
measured by weight and, in the case of cannabis products, lower-potency hemp
edibles, and hemp-derived consumer products, expressed as milligrams in each
serving and package.
   CANNABIS BUSINESS. Any of the following:
      (1)   Cannabis microbusiness;
      (2)   Cannabis mezzobusiness;
      (3)   Cannabis cultivator;
      (4)   Cannabis manufacturer;
      (5)   Cannabis retailer;
      (6)   Cannabis wholesaler;
      (7)   Cannabis transporter;
      (8)   Cannabis testing facility;
      (9)   Cannabis event organizer;
      (10)   Cannabis delivery service;
      (11)   Medical cannabis cultivator;
      (12)   Medical cannabis processor;
      (13)   Medical cannabis retailer; and
      (14)   Medical cannabis combination business.
   CANNABIS CONCENTRATE.
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   The extracts and resins of a cannabis plant or cannabis flower;
         (b)   The extracts or resins of a cannabis plant or cannabis flower
that are refined to increase the presence of targeted cannabinoids; or
         (c)   A product that is produced by refining extracts or resins of a
cannabis plant or cannabis flower and is intended to be consumed by combustion
or vaporization of the product and inhalation of smoke, aerosol, or vapor from
the product.
      (2)   Does not include hemp concentrate, artificially derived
cannabinoid, or hemp-derived consumer products.
   CANNABIS FLOWER. The harvested flower, bud, leaves, and stems of a cannabis
plant. Cannabis flower includes adult-use cannabis flower and medical cannabis
flower. CANNABIS FLOWER does not include cannabis seed, hemp plant parts, or
hemp-derived consumer products.
   CANNABIS INDUSTRY. Every item, product, person, process, action, business,
or other thing related to cannabis flower and cannabis products and subject to
regulation under this chapter.
   CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products, and materials of any kind
that are knowingly or intentionally used primarily in:
      (1)   Manufacturing cannabis products;
      (2)   Ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing cannabis flower or
cannabis products into the human body; and
      (3)   Testing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of cannabis flower,
cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer
products.
   CANNABIS PLANT. All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is growing
or has not been harvested and has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration
of more than 0.3% on a dry-weight basis.
   CANNABIS PRODUCT.
      (1)   Any of the following:
         (a)   Cannabis concentrate;
         (b)   A product infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited
to tetrahydrocannabinol, extracted or derived from cannabis plants or cannabis
flower; or
         (c)   Any other product that contains cannabis concentrate.
      (2)   Includes adult-use cannabis products, including but not limited to
edible cannabis products and medical cannabinoid products.
      (3)   Does not include cannabis flower, artificially derived cannabinoid,
lower-potency hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer products, or hemp-derived
topical products.
   CANNABIS SEED. The viable seed of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is
reasonably expected to grow into a cannabis plant. CANNABIS SEED does not
include hemp seed.
   CULTIVATION. Any activity involving the planting, growing, harvesting,
drying, curing, grading, or trimming of cannabis plants, cannabis flower, hemp
plants, or hemp plant parts.
   EDIBLE CANNABIS PRODUCT. Any product that is intended to be eaten or
consumed as a beverage by humans; contains a cannabinoid other than an
artificially derived cannabinoid in combination with food ingredients; is not a
drug; and is a type of product approved for sale by the office, or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the office including but not
limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked
goods. EDIBLE CANNABIS PRODUCT does not include lower-potency hemp edibles.
   HEMP BUSINESS.
      (1)   Either of the following licensed under this chapter:
         (a)   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturer; or
         (b)   Lower-potency hemp edible retailer.
      (2)   Does not include a person or entity licensed under M.S. Ch. 18K to
grow industrial hemp for commercial or research purposes or to process
industrial hemp for commercial purposes.
   HEMP CONCENTRATE.
      (1)   Includes:
         (a)   The extracts and resins of a hemp plant or hemp plant parts;
         (b)   The extracts or resins of a hemp plant or hemp plant parts that
are refined to increase the presence of targeted cannabinoids; or
         (c)   A product that is produced by refining extracts or resins of a
hemp plant or hemp plant parts and is intended to be consumed by combustion or
vaporization of the product and inhalation of smoke, aerosol, or vapor from the
product.
      (2)   Does not include artificially derived cannabinoids, lower-potency
hemp edibles, hemp-derived consumer products, or hemp-derived topical products.
   HEMP-DERIVED CONSUMER PRODUCT.
      (1)   A product intended for human or animal consumption, does not
contain cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate, and:
         (a)   Contains or consists of hemp plant parts; or
         (b)   Contains hemp concentrate or artificially derived cannabinoids
in combination with other ingredients.
      (2)   Does not include artificially derived cannabinoids, lower-potency
hemp edibles, hemp-derived topical products, hemp fiber products, or hemp
grain.
   HEMP-DERIVED TOPICAL PRODUCT. A product intended for human or animal
consumption that contains hemp concentrate, is intended for application
externally to a part of the body of a human or animal, and does not contain
cannabis flower or cannabis concentrate.
   HEMP FIBER PRODUCT. An intermediate or finished product made from the fiber
of hemp plant parts that is not intended for human or animal consumption. HEMP
FIBER PRODUCT includes but is not limited to cordage, paper, fuel, textiles,
bedding, insulation, construction materials, compost materials, and industrial
materials.
   HEMP PLANT. All parts of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is growing or
has not been harvested and has a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol concentration of
no more than 0.3% on a dry-weight basis.
   HEMP PLANT PARTS. Any part of the harvested hemp plant, including the
flower, bud, leaves, stems, and stalk, but does not include derivatives,
extracts, cannabinoids, isomers, acids, salts, and salts of isomers that are
separated from the plant. HEMP PLANT PARTS does not include hemp fiber
products, hemp grain, or hemp seed.
   HEMP SEED. The viable seed of the plant of the genus Cannabis that is
intended to be planted and is reasonably expected to grow into a hemp plant.
HEMP SEED does not include cannabis seed or hemp grain.
   INTOXICATING CANNABINOID. A cannabinoid, including an artificially derived
cannabinoid, that when introduced into the human body impairs the central
nervous system or impairs the human audio, visual, or mental processes.
INTOXICATING CANNABINOID includes but is not limited to any
tetrahydrocannabinol.
   LICENSE HOLDER. A person, cooperative, or business that holds any of the
following licenses:
      (1)   Cannabis microbusiness;
      (2)   Cannabis mezzobusiness;
      (3)   Cannabis cultivator;
      (4)   Cannabis manufacturer;
      (5)   Cannabis retailer;
      (6)   Cannabis wholesaler;
      (7)   Cannabis transporter;
      (8)   Cannabis testing facility;
      (9)   Cannabis event organizer;
      (10)   Cannabis delivery service;
      (11)   Lower-potency hemp edible manufacturer;
      (12)   Lower-potency hemp edible retailer;
      (13)   Medical cannabis cultivator;
      (14)   Medical cannabis processor;
      (15)   Medical cannabis retailer; or
      (16)   Medical cannabis combination business.
   LOCAL UNIT OF GOVERNMENT. The City of Henderson.
   LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLE. Any product that:
      (1)   Is intended to be eaten or consumed as a beverage by humans;
      (2)   Contains hemp concentrate or an artificially derived cannabinoid,
in combination with food ingredients;
      (3)   Is not a drug;
      (4)   Consists of servings that contain no more than five milligrams of
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol, 25 milligrams of cannabidiol, 25 milligrams of
cannabigerol, or any combination of those cannabinoids that does not exceed the
identified amounts;
      (5)   Does not contain more than a combined total of one-half milligram
of all other cannabinoids per serving;
      (6)   Does not contain an artificially derived cannabinoid other than
delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol;
      (7)   Does not contain a cannabinoid derived from cannabis plants or
cannabis flower; and
      (8)   Is a type of product approved for sale by the office or is
substantially similar to a product approved by the office, including but not
limited to products that resemble nonalcoholic beverages, candy, and baked
goods.
   MEDICAL CANNABINOID PRODUCT.
      (1)   A product that:
         (a)   Consists of or contains cannabis concentrate or hemp concentrate
or is infused with cannabinoids, including but not limited to artificially
derived cannabinoids; and
         (b)   Is provided to a patient emolled in the registry program; a
registered designated caregiver; or a parent, legal guardian, or spouse of an
enrolled patient, by a cannabis retailer or medical cannabis retailer to treat
or alleviate the symptoms of a qualifying medical condition.
      (2)   A MEDICAL CANNABINOID PRODUCT must be in the form of:
         (a)   Liquid, including but not limited to oil;
         (b)   Pill;
         (c)   Liquid or oil for use with a vaporized delivery method;
         (d)   Water-soluble cannabinoid multiparticulate, including granules,
powder, and sprinkles;
         (e)   Orally dissolvable product, including lozenges, gum, mints,
buccal tablets, and sublingual tablets;
         (f)   Edible products in the form of gummies and chews;
         (g)   Topical formulation; or
         (h)   Any allowable form or delivery method approved by the office.
      (3)   Does not include adult-use cannabis products or hemp-derived
consumer products.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS BUSINESS. An entity licensed under this chapter to engage
in one or more of the following:
      (1)   The cultivation of cannabis plants for medical cannabis flower;
      (2)   The manufacture of medical cannabinoid products; and
      (3)   The retail sale of medical cannabis flower and medical cannabinoid
products.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS FLOWER. Cannabis flower provided to a patient enrolled in
the registry program; a registered designated caregiver; or a parent, legal
guardian, or spouse of an enrolled patient by a cannabis retailer or medical
cannabis business to treat or alleviate the symptoms of a qualifying medical
condition. MEDICAL CANNABIS FLOWER does not include adult-use cannabis flower.
   MEDICAL CANNABIS PARAPHERNALIA. A delivery device, related supply, or
educational material used by a patient enrolled in the registry program to
administer medical cannabis and medical cannabinoid products.
   OFFICE. The Office of Cannabis Management.
   OUTDOOR ADVERTISEMENT. An advertisement that is located outdoors or can be
seen or heard by an individual who is outdoors and includes billboards;
advertisements on benches; advertisements at transit stations or transit
shelters; advertisements on the exterior or interior of buses, taxis, light
rail transit, or business vehicles; and print signs that do not meet the
requirements in M.S. § 342.64, Subd. 2(b), but that are placed or located on
the exterior property of a cannabis business.
   SYNTHETIC CANNABINOID. A substance with a similar chemical structure and
pharmacological activity to a cannabinoid but is not extracted or derived from
cannabis plants, cannabis flower, hemp plants, or hemp plant parts and is
instead created or produced by chemical or biochemical synthesis.
(Ord. 244, passed 10-23-2024)
PART II. LICENSE AND REGISTRATION
§ 1602.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No retail sale, manufacture for retail sale, or cultivation for retail sale,
of a cannabinoid product, hemp product, or low-potency hemp product shall occur
unless the seller, person, cooperative, or business first holds, and has at the
time of said sale the applicable licenses required by law from the Office of
Cannabis Management.
(Ord. 244, passed 10-23-2024)
§ 1602.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Form. Every application for a license to engage in retail sale, manufacture
for retail sale, or cultivation for retail sale of any cannabinoid products,
hemp products, or low-potency hemp products, must be made to the Office of
Cannabis Management on forms supplied by that office.
(Ord. 244, passed 10-23-2024)
§ 1602.03 LICENSE FEES.
   Fees for registration of cannabis businesses, hemp-derived retail
businesses, and low-potency hemp retail businesses shall be set according to
the city's fee schedule, as it is amended from time to time. All fees shall be
paid into the city's general fund. License fees are non-refundable in the event
that a license applicant is rejected.
(Ord. 244, passed 10-23-2024)
§ 1602.04 LOCAL REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before making retail sales to customers or patients, a cannabis
microbusiness, cannabis mezzobusiness, cannabis retailer, medical cannabis
combination business, or lower-potency hemp edible retailer must first register
with the city, town, or county in which the retail establishment is located.
   (B)   Fee. The city shall impose a fee for an initial retail registration
fee of $500 or up to half the amount of the applicable initial license fee
under M.S. § 342.11, whichever is less. The initial registration is good for
the year in which the registration is permitted. Registration shall be on an
annual basis and shall be good until December 31 of the year in which it was
issued. Thereafter an annual renewal registration is required. The city shall
also impose a renewal retail registration fee of $1,000 or up to half the
amount of the applicable renewal license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever is
less. The initial registration fee shall include the fee for initial
registration and the first annual renewal. Any renewal fee imposed by the local
unit of government shall be charged at the time of the second renewal and each
subsequent annual renewal thereafter. Registration fees are non-refundable.
   (C)   A local unit of government shall issue a retail registration to a
cannabis microbusiness with a retail operations endorsement, cannabis
mezzobusiness with a retail operations endorsement, cannabis retailer, medical
cannabis combination business operating a retail location, or lower-potency
hemp edible retailer that:
      (1)   Has a valid license or license pre-approval issued by the Office of
Cannabis Management;
      (2)   Has paid the registration fee or renewal fee pursuant to division
(B) of this section;
      (3)   Is found to be in compliance with the requirements of this chapter
at any preliminary compliance check that the local unit of government performs;
and
      (4)   If applicable, is current on all property taxes and assessments at
the location where the retail establishment is located.
   (D)   Before issuing a retail registration, the local unit of government may
conduct a preliminary compliance check to ensure that the cannabis business or
hemp business is in compliance with any applicable local ordinance including
zoning ordinances.
   (E)   A local unit of government shall renew the retail registration of a
cannabis business or hemp business when the office renews the license of the
cannabis business or hemp business.
   (F)   A retail registration issued under this section may not be
transferred.
(Ord. 244, passed 10-23-2024)
1602.05 CAPS ON LICENSES.
   (A)   There shall be no more than one license/registration issued for a
cannabis business.
   (B)   There shall be no more than six licenses/registrations issued for a
hemp business or solely for low-potency hemp edible businesses.
(Ord. 244, passed 10-23-2024)
PART III. RESTRICTIONS
§ 1603.01 RESTRICTIONS ON BUSINESS AND SIGNS.
   (A)   Cannabis businesses, and any related outdoor advertisement, shall not
operate or be placed within 1,000 feet of any school, nor shall they operate or
be placed within 500 feet of any duly licensed daycare, residential treatment
facility, or an attraction within a public park that is regularly used by
minors including a playground or athletic field. Distances set forth herein
shall be a parallel line from the closest two points property lines. Any
signage or advertisement for cannabis businesses and/or cannabis products,
including low-potency cannabis products, requires a permit from the City
Administrator.
   (B)   Cannabis business shall not engage in the retail sale of hemp-derived
products, or low-potency hemp edibles from 1:00 a.m. to 8:00 a.m. on any
weekday Monday through Saturday. Neither shall any such sales be conducted on
any Sunday between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 10:00 a.m. This division (B) does
not apply to adult-use cannabis products.
   (C)   Cannabis business selling adult-use cannabis products shall not engage
in the retail sale of adult-use cannabis products from 9:00 p.m. until 9:00
a.m. the following day on any weekday Monday through Saturday, and before 10:00
a.m. on Sundays. Neither shall any such sales be conducted on any Sunday
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 10:00 a.m. the following day.
   (D)   Cannabis businesses, hemp-derived retail businesses, and low-potency
hemp retail businesses facilities shall meet or exceed the standards set forth
in the Minnesota State Building Code, State Fire Code, and the city's code of
ordinances.
   (E)   License holders shall operate in full compliance with the city’s
zoning controls including obtaining any applicable conditional use permits
prior to operation.
   (F)   No cannabis products, including low-potency edibles shall be sold from
any food trucks, motor vehicles, recreational vehicles, or stands. Cannabis
products shall only be sold from brick-and-mortar permanent structures with an
established permanent foundation.
(Ord. 244, passed 10-23-2024)
PART IV. COMPLIANCE AND PENALTIES
§ 1604.01 COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   (A)   The city’s Police Department or the Sibley County Sheriff’s Department
shall conduct compliance checks of every cannabis business, hemp business, and
low-potency hemp edible business with a retail registration issued by the city.
During a compliance check, the Police Department shall assess a business'
compliance with age verification requirements and compliance with any
applicable local ordinances established pursuant to M.S. § 342.13 including
zoning ordinances.
   (B)   The Police Department or Sheriff’s Department must conduct unannounced
age verification compliance checks of every cannabis business, hemp business,
and low-potency hemp edible business at least once each calendar year. Age
verification compliance checks must involve persons at least 17 years of age
but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written consent of a parent or
guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt to purchase adult-use
cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-potency hemp edibles, or
hemp-derived consumer products under the direct supervision of a law
enforcement officer or an employee of the local unit of government.
(Ord. 244, passed 10-23-2024)
§ 1604.02 REGISTRATION SUSPENSION AND CANCELLATION; NOTICE TO OFFICE OF
CANNABIS, PENALTIES.
   (A)   If the city determines that a cannabis business, hemp business, or
low-potency hemp edible business with a retail registration issued by the local
unit of government is not operating in compliance with the requirements of a
local ordinance authorized under M.S. § 342.13 or that the operation of the
business poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of the public, the
City Council may suspend the retail registration of the cannabis business, hemp
business, or low-potency edible business. The City Administrator must
immediately notify the Office of Cannabis Management with the suspension and
shall include a description of the grounds for the suspension.
   (B)   The Office of Cannabis Management may review the retail registration
suspension and that office may order reinstatement of the retail registration
or take any action described in M.S. §§ 342.19 or 342.21.
   (C)   The retail registration suspension shall be for up to 30 days unless
the Office of Cannabis Management suspends the license and operating privilege
of the cannabis business or hemp business for a longer period or revokes the
license. Upon revocation by that office, the registration shall be revoked.
   (D)   The City Council may reinstate the retail registration if the City
Council determines that any violation has been cured. The City Council must
reinstate the retail registration if the Office of Cannabis Management orders
reinstatement.
   (E)   No cannabis microbusiness, cannabis mezzobusiness, cannabis retailer,
medical cannabis combination business, or lower-potency hemp edible retailer
may make any sale to a customer or patient without a valid retail registration
with the city and a valid license with any applicable endorsement from the
Office of Cannabis Management. A local unit of government may impose a civil
penalty of up to $2,000 for each violation of this division (E), in addition to
any additional penalties, civil or criminal, that they may impose.
   (F)   Any violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor offense
punishable by incarceration of up to 90 days, a fine of up to $1,000, or both.
Said penalty shall be in addition to any civil penalty the city may impose.
(Ord. 244, passed 10-23-2024)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites                  Code Section
Ch. 12                      207.01;
                            207.02
Ch. 13                      208.31;
                            209.03
13.02 et seq.               209.06
Ch. 14                      501.07
15.17 et seq.               209.06
16B.69                      1101.04
Ch. 18K                     1601.02
Ch. 44                      208.02
65B.48, Subd. 5             701.04
84.81 through 84.928        701.03
84.872                      701.03
Ch. 103A through Ch. 103F   908.01
Ch. 103g                    908.04
Ch. 115                     902.06
Ch. 116                     902.06
Ch. 134                     1004.02;
                            1402.01
134.09, Subd. 1             1007.01
134.09, Subd. 2             1007.01
138.17                      1301.12
138.17 et seq.              209.06
Ch. 152                     1403.11
160.29                      308.02
168B.01 to 168B.13          210.01
168B.011                    210.01
                            701.01;
Ch. 169                     701.03;
                            701.04
169.011 et seq.             701.02
169.89, Subd. 2             100.06
169.121                     701.03
169.522                     701.04
Ch. 179A                    208.02;
                            208.17
192.26                      208.09
192.261                     208.09
197.46                      208.05
197.46 to 197.481           208.02
Ch. 216D                    309.04
216D.01 through 216D.09     309.04
237.162                     309.02;
                            309.09
237.163                     309.09
243.166                     1502.01;
                            1503.03
243.167                     1503.03
243.1605                    1503.03
244.052, Subd. 3            1502.01
244.052, Subd. 3(i)         1503.03
244.052, Subd. 4a           1501.01
Ch. 245A                    1402.01
300.06                      309.03
326B.46                     401.06
326B.101 et seq.            1101.01;
                            1101.05
326B.121, Subd. 1           1101.02;
                            1101.03
326B.133, Subd. 1           1101.02
326B.148                    1101.03
327.31 to 327.35            902.02;
                            902.03
Ch. 340A                    601.01;
                            601.03
340A.101                    601.02
340A.402                    602.02
340A.404                    602.07
340A.409                    601.03
340A.409, Subd. 1           602.03
340A.409, Subd. 4           602.03
340A.415                    603.01
340A.504, Subd. 3           601.03
Ch. 342                     1601.01
                            802.04;
342.01                      902.04—
                            902.06;
                            1601.02
342.11                      1602.04
342.13                      1604.01,
                            1604.02
342.19                      1604.02
342.21                      1604.02
342.64, Subd. 2(b)          1601.02
347.50 to 347.54            503.12
Ch. 349                     601.11
349.25                      506.03
349.30                      601.11
349.155                     506.01
364.06                      208.31
364.09                      208.31
366.011                     205.03
366.012                     205.03
412.111                     202.01
412.591, Subd. 2            203.01
415.01                      205.03
Ch. 419                     208.02
Ch. 420                     208.02
Ch. 429                     309.11;
                            909.09
429.061                     801.08
429.101                     801.08
449.15                      508.01;
                            508.05
Ch. 462                     309.11
462.354, Subd. 1            206.01
462.357, Subd. 3            206.05
462.358                     909.03
462.351                     901.03
462.361                     903.05
Ch. 463                     1301.05
463.15 to 463.26            302.01;
                            302.04
463.17                      801.07
463.151                     1102.05
463.21                      1102.05
463.251                     1102.01;
                            1102.05
463.251, Subd. 2            1102.02
463.251, Subd. 3            1102.02
463.251, Subd. 4            1102.04
Ch. 466                     301.03
471.193                     1301.04
471.193, Subd. 6            1301.03
                            909.03;
                            909.04;
Ch. 505                     909.05;
                            909.06;
                            909.08
505.03                      909.05
507.07, p. 103              501.07
582.031, Subd. 1, para. (b) 1102.02
582.032, Subd. 7            1102.02
609.033                     100.06
609.0332                    100.06
617.241                     1402.01
Ch. 645                     100.03
                            
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
234      - -         309.01—
                     309.16
224      9-21-2011   402.01—
                     402.06
228      4-17-2013   208.31
230      12-18-2013  205.03
233      5-20-2020   1102.01—
                     1102.07
235      5-19-2021   100.01
236      1-19-2022   308.01
                     1002.01;
237      5-17-2023   1004.02;
                     1007.01
238      6-21-2023   306.07
239      6-21-2023   801.04
240      11-15-2023  802.04
241      1-17-2024   503.04
243      9-18-2024   205.01—
                     205.03
                     1601.01;
                     1601.02;
                     1602.01—
244      10-23-2024  1602.05;
                     1603.01;
                     1604.01;
                     1604.02
245      10-23-2024  902.04
246      10-23-2024  902.05
247      10-23-2024  902.06
248      11-20-2024  503.03
                    
 
