JENKINS, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-1 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance O-24-38, passed 12-9-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. O-24-32
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF JENKINS, MINNESOTA,
AMENDING, RESTATING, REVISING, UPDATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN
ORDINANCES OF THE CITY DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES, AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS Minnesota Statutes §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to cause
its ordinances to be codified and printed in a book, now therefore:
   The City Council of the City of Jenkins, Minnesota, ordains:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the city as amended, restated, revised,
updated, codified, and compiled in book form, including penalties for the
violations of various provisions thereof, are adopted and shall constitute the
Code of Ordinances of the City of Jenkins. This Code of Ordinances also adopts,
by reference, certain statutes and administrative rules of the State of
Minnesota as named in the Code of Ordinances.
   Section 2. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
   TITLE I.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter 10:   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III.   ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter 30:   General Provisions
   TITLE V.   PUBLIC WORKS
   TITLE VII.   TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter 70:   Traffic and Parking
            §§ 70.01 through 70.04; 70.99(A) through(C)
   TITLE IX.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter 90:   Animals
            §§ 90.01 through 90.05; 90.07 through 90.12; 90.99
      Chapter 91: Health and Safety; Nuisances
   TITLE XI.   BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter 111:   Alcoholic Beverages
            §§ 111.15 through 111.35; 111.99(A) and (C)
      Chapter 112:   Amusement and Sales
            §§ 112.15 through 111.24; 112.99(A) and (C)
   TITLE XIII.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter 130
   TITLE XV.   LAND USAGE
      Chapter 150:   Land Use and Subdivisions
      Chapter 151:   Building Standards
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table I:   Annexations
      Table II:   Franchise Agreements
      Table III:   Moratoriums
   PARALLEL REFERNCES
      References to Minnesota Statutes
      References to Ordinances
Passed by the City Council of Jenkins, Minnesota this 23rd day of April, 2024.
Andrew J. Rudlang /s/                
Andrew J. Rudlang, Mayor                  
Attested:
Krista A. Okerman /s/                
Krista A. Okerman, City Clerk
 
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
General Provisions
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights, and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules and supplements by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
Administrative Offenses
   
10.35   Procedures for enforcement
   
10.36   Administrative hearing procedure
   
10.37   Recovery of fines
   
10.38   Prosecution
 
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty
   
Appendix A:   Notice of code violation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered, and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters, and sections, shall be known and designated as the
“Jenkins City Code,” for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances,” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter, and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters, and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter,
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition, and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance.
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provision, or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The area within the corporate boundaries of the City of Jenkins,
Minnesota, as presently established or as amended by ordinance, annexation, or
other legal actions at a future time. The term CITY when used in this code may
also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY. The County of Crow Wing, Minnesota, in which the city is located.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      RESERVED. When in reference to a code section, chapter, or title, such
part of the code is intentionally being held available for future use.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      UNPERMITTED. Not permitted, disallowed, banned.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code, as now or later amended, or its application
to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, REASONABLE TIME OR
NOTICE shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force,
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS, AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings, and rights are continued; punishments, penalties, or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway rights-of-
way, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment, or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Clerk-Treasurer for public inspection. The Clerk-Treasurer shall provide a copy
for sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES AND SUPPLEMENTS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting this code,
all future amendments to any state or federal rules and statutes adopted by
reference in this code or referenced in this code are hereby adopted by
reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time this code
was adopted, unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the
contrary.
   (B)   It is the intention of the City Council that, when adopting the code,
all future supplements are hereby adopted as if they had been in existence at
the time this code was enacted, unless there is clear intention expressed in
the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any licensed peace officer of the city’s Police Department, or the
County Sheriff, or any Deputy Sheriff, shall have the authority to enforce any
provision of this code.
   (B)   As permitted by M.S. § 626.862, as it may be amended from time to
time, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall have the authority to administer and
enforce this code. In addition, under that statutory authority, certain
individuals designated within the code, or by the Clerk-Treasurer or City
Council, shall have the authority to administer and enforce the provisions
specified. All and any person or persons designated may issue a citation in
lieu of arrest or continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (C)   The City Clerk-Treasurer and any city official or employee designated
by this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may
with the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or
resident of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect, or
otherwise enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (D)   If the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of a
premises objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Clerk-Treasurer, peace officer, or any employee or official charged with the
duty of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. This warrant shall be only
to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to protect the health,
safety, and welfare of the people are being complied with and to enforce these
provisions only, and no criminal charges shall be made as a result of the
warrant. No warrant shall be issued unless there be probable cause to issue the
warrant. Probable cause occurs if the search is reasonable. Probable cause does
not depend on specific knowledge of the condition of a particular property.
   (E)   Every licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of
property within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or
entrance to the property by the City Clerk-Treasurer or any other authorized
city officer or employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code
enacted to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the people are being
complied with and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit
the inspection of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination
of any and all permits, licenses, or city service to the property. Mailed
notice shall be given to the licensee, owner, resident, or other person in
control of the property, stating the grounds for the termination, and the
licensee, owner, resident, or other person in control of the property shall be
given an opportunity to appear before the City Clerk-Treasurer to object to the
termination before it occurs, subject to appeal of the Clerk-Treasurer’s
decision to the City Council at a regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (F)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare.
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFENSES
§ 10.35 PROCEDURES FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The City Council has determined that there is a need for
alternative methods of enforcing the city codes. While criminal fines and
penalties have been the most frequent enforcement mechanism, there are certain
negative consequences for both the city and the accused. The delay inherent in
that system does not ensure prompt resolution. Citizens resent being labeled as
criminals for violations of administrative regulations. The higher burden of
proof and the potential of incarceration do not appear appropriate for most
administrative violations. The criminal process does not always regard city
code violations as being important. Accordingly, the City Council finds the use
of administrative citations and the imposition of civil penalties is legitimate
and a necessary alternative method of enforcement. This method of enforcement
is in addition to any other legal remedy that may be pursued for city code
violations.
   (B)   Alternative methods of enforcement. This administrative enforcement
procedure seeks to gain compliance with certain provisions of the city code and
serves as an alternate to any formal criminal or civil court action. The
administrative hearing process provided for in this section shall be in
addition to any other legal or equitable remedy available to the city for city
code violations, except that if a determination is made by the hearing officer
pursuant to the hearing process detailed in this section that a violation did
not occur, the city may not then proceed with criminal prosecution of the same
act or conduct.
   (C)   Authority to issue order to correct letters and administrative
citations. The following city employees and agents are authorized to issue
compliance letters and administrative citations for violations of the city
code: City Clerk-Treasurer or City Planner.
   (D)   Administrative offenses; schedules of fines and fees.
      (1)   Except as noted herein, a violation of any provision of the city
code is an administrative offense which may be subject to an administrative
citation and civil penalties pursuant to this subchapter, but only if such
violation is specifically mentioned in a fine schedule adopted by City Council.
Each scheduled violation shall already be a violation of city code. If the
violation is listed in said fine schedule, the fine is simply another remedy
available to the city, but the city may choose to enforce the violation by
other means in lieu of an administrative fine. Each day a violation exists
constitutes a separate offense. The following offenses shall not be subject to
administrative citation: Traffic offenses under M.S. Chapter 169, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (2)   An administrative offense may be subject to a civil penalty not
exceeding $2,000.
      (3)   The City Council shall adopt by resolution a schedule of
recommended fines for offenses initiated by administrative citation. The City
Council is not bound by that schedule when a matter is appealed for
administrative review.
      (4)   The City Council may adopt a schedule of fees to be paid to
administrative hearing officers.
      (5)   The City Council shall adopt written procedures for administering
the administrative citation program.
   (E)   Order to correct; administrative citations. Upon the reasonable belief
that an administrative offense has occurred, the city officials listed in
division (C) above shall serve on the violator an order to correct the
violation. If compliance is not achieved within the timeline prescribed in the
order to correct the violation, the official is authorized to issue an
administrative citation. An administrative citation shall be presented in
person or by first class mail to the person responsible for the violation.
Service shall be deemed complete upon depositing the citation in the United
States Mail, properly addressed to last known address of the person to be
served and postage prepaid. The citation shall state the following: date, time,
and nature of the offense, citing the relevant portion of the city code that
was allegedly violated, the amount of the scheduled civil fine, and the manner
for paying the fine, a statement that the city code violation and the amount of
the administrative penalty may be contested to be heard before an independent
hearing officer by notifying the City Administrator or designated
representative in writing within ten days of the date of the citation, and a
statement that failure to pay the administrative civil penalty may result in it
being assessed against the property as provided in M.S. Chapter 429, as it may
be amended from time to time.
   (F)   Exceptions to issuance of order to correct letter. For violations of
the following, the city shall not be required to issue a compliance letter and
may proceed directly to the issuance of an administrative citation as provided
in division (E) above: If the same owner commits a subsequent violation within
12 months after a compliance letter has been issued for the same or similar
offense.
   (G)   Reasonable extensions. Following service of the compliance letter, the
city shall attempt to work with the owner to resolve the violation, including,
but not limited to, responding to reasonable extensions for compliance.
   (H)   Payment of penalty and correction of violation. If the owner pays the
administrative civil penalty and corrects the city code violation, no further
action will be taken against the owner or the owner’s real property for that
same violation. If payment is made but correction is not accomplished, a
subsequent administrative citation may be issued, criminal proceedings may be
initiated, or any other proceedings or remedies available in order to enforce
correction of the violation. If no payment is made, no correction of the
violation is made, and no request for hearing is made in accordance herein, the
city may assess the administrative civil penalty against the property owner
pursuant to M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be amended from time to time, issue a
subsequent administrative citation, and commence a new administrative process,
initiate criminal proceedings, or initiate other enforcement action authorized
by law or a combination hereof.
(Ord. O-18-13, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 10.36 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Request for hearing. An owner or occupant may contest the
administrative citation and the amount of the fine by requesting a hearing, in
writing, within ten days of the date of the citation, to the City Administrator
or designated representative.
   (B)   Hearing officers. The City Council will periodically approve a list of
lawyers, from which the City Administrator will select a hearing officer to
hear and determine a matter for which the hearing is requested. The person who
has requested the hearing has the right to request, no later than 15 days
before the date of the hearing, that the assigned hearing officer be removed
from the case. One such request for each case will be granted by the City
Administrator. A subsequent request must be directed to the assigned hearing
officer, who will decide whether the hearing officer can fairly and objectively
review the case. If such a finding is made, the hearing officer shall remove
himself or herself from the case, and the City Administrator shall assign
another hearing officer. The hearing officer is not a judicial officer, but is
a public officer as defined by M.S. § 609.415, as it may be amended from time
to time. The hearing officer shall not be a current or former employee of the
city.
   (C)   Notice of hearing. Notice of the hearing must be served in person or
by first class mail to the person responsible for the violation no less than 20
days in advance of the scheduled hearing, unless a shorter time is accepted by
both parties. Service shall be deemed complete upon depositing the notice of
hearing in the United States Mail, properly addressed to last known address of
the person to be served and postage prepaid.
   (D)   Payment for the cost of hearing.
      (1)   The cost of the hearing shall be borne solely by the non-prevailing
party. The city shall provide an estimate of the cost of the hearing at the
time of the request for hearing. The City Council has the authority to reduce
the non-prevailing party’s costs where that party can demonstrate indigence by
clear and convincing evidence.
      (2)   Proof of indigence can be demonstrated by the party’s receipt of
means tested governmental benefits or a demonstrated lack of assets or current
income. Such proof shall be presented to the City Council for determination
subsequent to the hearing. However, the hearing officer, at the time of the
hearing, shall make specific findings as to whether or not the party is
indigent, with said findings presented to the City Council. In all cases where
the party requesting the hearing is unable to attend and fails to request a
continuance of the hearing at least 48 hours in advance of the scheduled
hearing, all costs incurred by the city attributable to the hearing shall be
charged to the requesting party.
   (E)   Hearing procedures. At the hearing, the parties shall have the
opportunity to present testimony and question any witnesses, but strict rules
of evidence shall not apply. The hearing officer shall record the hearing and
receive testimony and exhibits, and the full record of the hearing shall be
kept. The hearing officer shall receive and give weight to evidence, including
hearsay evidence, probative value commonly accepted by reasonable and prudent
people in the conduct of their affairs.
   (F)   Authority of the hearing officer.
      (1)   The hearing officer shall determine whether a violation did or did
not occur. If the hearing officer determines that a violation did not occur,
then the citation shall be dismissed. If the hearing officer determines that a
violation did occur, then the officer may do any of the following: impose a
fine anywhere within or up to, but not exceeding, the maximum penalty for an
administrative offense; stay or waive a fine, either unconditionally or upon
compliance with the appropriate conditions.
      (2)   When imposing a penalty for a violation, the hearing officer may
consider any or all of the following:
         (a)   The duration of the violation;
         (b)   The frequency of recurrence of the violation;
         (c)   The seriousness of the violation;
         (d)   The history of the violation;
         (e)   The violator’s conduct after issuance of the notice of hearing;
         (f)   The good faith effort of the violator to comply;
         (g)   The economic impact of the penalty on the violator;
         (h)   The impact of the violation upon the community; and/or
         (i)   Any other factors appropriate to just result.
   (G)   Fines for continuing violations. The hearing officer may exercise
discretion to impose a fine for more than one day of a continuing violation,
but only on a finding that the violation caused a serious threat of harm to the
public health, safety, or welfare, or the accused intentionally and
unreasonably refused to comply with the code requirement. The hearing officer’s
decision and supporting reasons for continuing violations must be in writing.
   (H)   Decision of the hearing officer. The hearing officer shall issue a
decision in writing to both parties within ten days of the hearing. Any fines
or penalties imposed must be paid no later than 30 days of the date of the
hearing officer’s order. If the fine is not paid, the city may assess the civil
penalty against the owner’s property pursuant to M.S. Chapter 429, as it may be
amended from time to time. If the hearing officer determines that no violation
occurred, the city may not proceed with criminal prosecution for the same act
or conduct. The decision of the hearing officer is final and may only be
appealed to the State Court of Appeals by petitioning for a writ of certiorari
pursuant to M.S. § 606.01, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. O-18-13, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 10.37 RECOVERY OF FINES.
   (A)   Payment of fines. Prior to any assessment for unpaid fines, the city
shall seek payment of the fines by notifying the owner of the property in
writing of the fine imposed.
   (B)   Recovery of civil penalties.
      (1)   Nonpayment. If a civil penalty is not paid within the time
specified, it will constitute:
         (a)   A lien on the real property upon which the violation occurred if
the property or improvements on the property was the subject of the violation
and the property owner was found responsible for that violation; or
         (b)   A personal obligation of the violator in all other situations.
      (2)   Lien. A lien may be assessed against the property and collected in
the same manner as taxes.
      (3)   Personal obligation. A personal obligation may be collected by
appropriate legal means.
      (4)   Late fees/charges.
         (a)   If, after seven days, the fine has not been paid or a hearing
requested, the fine will increase by 10% for each seven days thereafter for one
month. After four weeks and four late fee charges have been added to the
original fine, the total bill will be assessed to the property taxes and all
city licenses will be revoked. For continued violations, the city will correct
the violation and assess the charges for doing so onto the property taxes or
criminal charges may be filed.
         (b)   If the same property and property owner are charged with a
subsequent violation within a 12-month period for the same, or substantially
similar offense, the fine will be increased by 25%. After a third infraction in
a 12-month period, the fine will increase by 50%, and after a fourth infraction
by 100%.
      (5)   License revocation or suspension. Failure to pay a fine is grounds
for suspending or revoking a license related to the violation.
(Ord. O-18-13, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 10.38 PROSECUTION.
   If the final adjudication in the administrative penalty procedure is a
finding of no violation, then the city may not prosecute a criminal violation
in District Court based on the same set of facts. This does not preclude the
city from pursuing a criminal conviction for a violation of the same provisions
based on a different set of facts. A different date of violation will
constitute a different set of facts.
(Ord. O-18-13, passed 6-11-2018)
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create by resolution, adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
The resolution may be in the form established by the city. Such resolution may
not proscribe administrative penalties for traffic offenses designated by M.S.
§ 169.999, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective, and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   In the discretion of the peace officer, City Clerk-Treasurer, or other
person giving notice of an alleged violation of a provision of this code, a
written notice must be provided of an alleged violation, sent by first class
mail to the person who is alleged to have violated the code. The person giving
notice may request the payment of a voluntary administrative penalty for the
violation directly to the City Clerk-Treasurer within 14 days of the notice of
the violation. A sample notice is contained in the Appendix to this chapter. In
the sole discretion of the person giving the notice of the alleged violation,
the time for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not
requested by the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the
administrative penalty, the person giving notice may request in the notice to
the alleged violator to adopt a compliance plan to correct the situation
resulting in the alleged violation and may provide that if the alleged violator
corrects the situation resulting in the alleged violation within the time
specified in the notice, the payment of the administrative penalty will be
waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the City Council, the City Council may
determine to withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for
payment. Because the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there
shall be no appeal from the decision of the City Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by City Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of
this code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed
for any violation which is a petty misdemeanor under this code, including
Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference.
      (2)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any petty offense which
is a petty misdemeanor shall be a sentence of a fine of not more than $300.
      (3)   Pursuant to M.S. § 631.48, as it may be amended from time to time,
in either the case of a misdemeanor or a petty misdemeanor, the costs of
prosecution may be added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon
each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
      (4)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
      (5)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §§
10.35 through
10.38, if any person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision
of this code, the Council, or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings with a hearing before City Council, at law or at equity
to restrain, correct, or abate the violation.
      (6)   (a)   Upon probable cause to believe that a violation has been
committed and that the violator has committed the violation or is legally
responsible for the commission of the violation or for allowing the condition
constituting the violation to exist, an issuer is authorized to issue a
citation, complying with the standards set forth below, to the violator;
         (b)   In the case of a violation which constitutes a property
violation, the citation may, in addition, include a directive to eliminate the
condition giving rise to the property violation; and
         (c)   If reasonably practical, the issuer shall deliver the citation
to the violator in person. If the violator is not present at the time that the
citation is issued, cannot be reasonably contacted for the purpose of delivery
of the citation, or refused to accept delivery of the citation, the issuer may
deliver the citation to the violator by depositing it in the U.S. mail
addressed to the violator at an address of public record for the violator,
which may include, but need not be limited to, an address taken from area
telephone directories, from records of the City Assessor, from records of city-
owned utilities, or from other public sources. Delivery by such alternative
means shall be deemed to be valid delivery and shall be deemed to be effective
three days after the deposit of the citation in the U.S. mail.
   (B)   The following are misdemeanors, punishable in accordance with state
law:
      (1)   Failure, without good cause, to pay a fine or request a hearing
within 30 days after issuance of an administrative citation;
      (2)   Failure, without good cause, to appear at a hearing that was
scheduled under §
10.35(F); and
      (3)   Failure to pay a fine imposed by a hearing officer within 30 days
after it was imposed, or such other time as may be established by the hearing
officer.
(Ord. O-18-13, passed 6-11-2018)
APPENDIX A: NOTICE OF CODE VIOLATION
To: (Name and address of person who is alleged to have violated the code)
From: (Name and title of city official giving the notice)
Re: Alleged violation of Section of the City Code, relating to (give title of
section)
Date: (Date of notice)
   I hereby allege that on (date of violation) you violated §                 
of the City Code relating to
                                                                                                                                                       
.
   The City Council has by resolution established an administrative penalty in
the amount of $         for this violation.
   Payment of this administrative penalty is voluntary, but if you do not pay
it the city may initiate proceedings for this alleged violation.
   Payment is due within 14 days of the date of this notice. Before the due
date, you may request an additional 14-day extension of the time to pay the
administrative penalty.
   As an alternative to the payment of this administrative penalty, if the
situation that gave rise to this alleged violation is corrected by
                        (establish date), then the payment of the
administrative penalty will be waived.
   Even if the administrative penalty is paid, the city reserves the right to
institute appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or
abate the violation.
   Before the due date, you may request to appear before the City Council to
contest the request for payment of the penalty. After a hearing before the
Council, the Council may determine to withdraw the request for payment or to
renew the request for payment. Because the payment of the administrative
penalty is voluntary, there shall be no appeal from the decision of the
Council.
   If you pay the administrative penalty, the city will not initiate
proceedings for this alleged violation. However, the Council, or any city
official designated by it, may institute appropriate proceedings, as referenced
in ____________ , or seek appropriate remedies at law or at equity to restrain,
correct, or abate the violation.
   Payment of the administrative penalty may be made by check, cash, or money
order to the City Clerk-Treasurer.
Signed:                                                               
      (Name and Title of Person Giving Notice)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Absentee ballot counting
§ 30.01 ABSENTEE BALLOT COUNTING.
   Pursuant to the provision of M.S. § 203B.13, as it may be amended from time
to time, the City Council hereby authorizes the County Commissioners to
establish an absentee ballot precinct, to be located in the county courthouse
complex, for the purpose of receiving all absentee ballots for any primary or
general election nor special referendum held within the city. The absentee
ballot precinct shall be under the direct charge and supervision of the County
Auditor and shall be administered pursuant to the state election laws without
cost to the city.
(Ord. O-23-31, passed 9-26-203)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   [Reserved]
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC AND PARKING
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND PARKING
Section
   
70.01   Road restrictions and load limits
   
70.02   Parking authority
   
70.03   Motor vehicle noise control
   
70.04   Amendments
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 ROAD RESTRICTIONS AND LOAD LIMITS.
   (A)   Purpose. To preserve the condition of the public streets within the
city from serious damage or destruction by the excessive use of these streets
by trucks and other heavily laden vehicles and to reduce the amount of cost and
expense to the taxpayers of the city for street maintenance.
   (B)   Restrictions. The City Council shall set by resolution road
restrictions, including weight limitations for all municipally owned and
maintained streets, whenever, by reason of deterioration, rain, snow, or other
climatic conditions, said streets will be damaged or destroyed.
   (C)   Posting. Any street affected by said resolution shall be posted with
signs plainly indicating the restriction at each end of the portion of street
affected.
   (D)   Exemptions. School buses, refuse haulers, and heating fuel trucks are
given special permission to proceed with normal operation on their regularly
established routes at regularly established hours.
(Ord. O-17-12, passed 11-13-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.02 PARKING AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Council authority.
      (1)   The City Council shall be authorized to regulate the parking or
stopping of vehicles within the city, including establishment of “no parking”
zones and regulating the length of time the parking may be permitted.
      (2)   In establishing or changing parking zones or restrictions, the
Council shall pass a resolution adequately describing and defining the parking
zone or restrictions. The resolution shall be posted upon or at the entrance of
the parking zone, after which time, it shall be in force and effect.
   (B)   Emergency parking regulations. The City Council, City Clerk-Treasurer,
Public Works, or the city’s designated law enforcement agency shall be hereby
authorized to forbid the parking of vehicles for temporary periods in case of
emergency at any place within the city.
   (C)   Removal of vehicle. The city’s designated law enforcement agency or
the City Clerk-Treasurer shall be hereby authorized and empowered to have
removed any vehicle parked or stopped in violation of any resolution or code
section regulating parking in the city. The removal shall be performed by a
firm ordinarily engaged in the towing of vehicles. Upon removal, the vehicle
shall be retained by the towing firm until reasonable costs of towing and
storage shall have been paid. Impoundment shall be handled as provided for by
state law.
   (D)   General restrictions on parking. It shall be unlawful for any person
to leave, park, permit, or allow any motor vehicle to stand or remain upon any
city street or right-of-way for more than 72 hours at any time.
(Ord. O-17-12, passed 11-13-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.03 MOTOR VEHICLE NOISE CONTROL.
   (A)   Purpose. Excessive vehicle noise offense procedures established
pursuant to this section are intended to provide the public and the city with a
means to limit the exposure to noise pollution created by vehicles operating
within the city limits. These procedures shall be established by uniform
regulations as to what the offenses of excessive vehicle noise are by
definition, what type of offenses these are, and what the penalty shall be for
those who have been charged with the offense.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE. A Dynamic Brake, Jake Brake, Jacobs Brake, C
Brake, Paccar Brake, transmission brake, or other similar engine retarding
brake system, which alters the normal compression of the engine and
subsequently releases that compression.
      ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE.
         (a)   Distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort and repose of any person or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s value;
         (b)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.69, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires every motor vehicle to be equipped
with a muffler in good working order; or
         (c)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.693, as it may
be amended from time to time, which establishes motor vehicle noise standards.
   (C)   Excessive vehicle noise.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust or
permit the discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle, except through a
muffler that effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and complies with
all applicable state laws and regulations.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to intentionally
use an engine retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot, or
alley within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise from the engine
because of an illegally modified or defective exhaust system, except in an
emergency.
   (D)   Signing. Signs stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” or “NO JAKE
BRAKES” may be installed at locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to
advise motorists of the prohibitions contained in this section, except that no
sign stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” shall be installed on a state
highway without a permit from the State Department of Transportation. The
provisions of this section are in full force and effect even if no signs are
installed.
(Ord. O-17-12, passed 11-13-2017) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 AMENDMENTS.
   It is the intention of the City Council that all future amendments to any
statutes and rules referenced or adopted by reference in this subchapter are
also referenced or adopted by reference as if they had been in existence at the
time this subchapter was adopted.
(Ord. O-17-12, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, party, or firm who violates any provision of §
70.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of §§
70.01 through
70.04 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 24, passed 10-2-1972; Ord. O-17-12, passed 11-13-2017; Ord. O-24-32,
passed 4-23-2024)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs
   
90.01   Purpose and intent
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Animal Control Officer
   
90.04   Dog houses; food and water
   
90.05   Dogs and cats running at large
   
90.06   Licensing procedure and fees
   
90.07   Disposition of unclaimed animals
   
90.08   Animal shelter
   
90.09   Dangerous dogs
   
90.10   Various offenses
   
90.11   Kennels
   
90.12   Rabies vaccination procedure
 
   
90.99   Penalty
DOGS
§ 90.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The City Council finds that there is the need for the citizens of the
city to have a standard procedure for the licensing of dogs within the city
limits.
   (B)    It is the intent of the City Council to ensure that all dogs kept in
the city are maintained in a healthy environment.
(Ord. 58, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. That person appointed by the City Council to enforce
this subchapter. Shall include any person serving as DEPUTY ANIMAL CONTROL
OFFICER.
   AT LARGE. The dog is off the property of the person, firm, corporation,
organization, or department owning, keeping, or harboring said animal, and the
dog is not under restraint.
   DOG. All dogs over six months of age.
   LICENSE YEAR. The period from January 1 until the following December 31.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or department owning,
keeping, harboring, or acting as custodian of a dog or dogs.
   UNDER RESTRAINT. The dog is on the premises of the person, firm,
corporation, organization, or department owning, keeping, or harboring the
animal, if it is at heel beside a person having custody of it, if it is
obedient to that person’s command, if it is within a private motor vehicle of a
person owning, keeping, or harboring the animal, or if it is controlled by a
leash not exceeding six feet in length.
(Ord. 58, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 90.03 ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER.
   (A)   The position of the Animal Control Officer is hereby established. He
or she shall be appointed by the City Council. Nothing contained herein shall
prevent the City Council from contracting with a person to provide such
services. The Animal Control Officer is hereby authorized and empowered to
issue citations for violations of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Animal Control Officer shall perform the following duties:
      (1)   Capture, seize, and deliver to any designated pound any dog running
at large within the city;
      (2)   Investigate all reported incidents wherein a dog has bitten a
person and confirm that said animal is quarantined as required herein;
      (3)   Provide a written monthly report to the City Council as to the
activities of the Animal Control Officer; and
      (4)   Undertake such other matters as may be directed by the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
(Ord. 58, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 90.04 DOG HOUSES; FOOD AND WATER.
   (A)   As to dog houses, M.S. § 343.40, Subds. 1, 2, and 3, as they may be
amended from time to time, are adopted by reference as if fully set forth
herein.
   (B)   A dog must be provided with food and water of sufficient quantity and
quality to satisfy the animal’s needs.
(Ord. 58, passed 7-9-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DOGS AND CATS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be a violation of this code for the dog or cat of any person
who owns, harbors, or keeps a dog or cat, to run at large. A person who owns,
harbors, or keeps a dog or cat which runs at large shall be guilty of a petty
misdemeanor. Dogs or cats on a leash and accompanied by a responsible person or
accompanied by and under the control and direction of a responsible person, so
as to be effectively restrained by command as by leash, shall be permitted in
streets or on public land unless the city has posted an area with signs reading
“dogs or cats prohibited.”
   (B)   The designated Animal Control Officer may take up and impound any dog
found running at large within the city. If the animal is wearing a tag for the
current license year, then the Animal Control Officer shall mail notice of
impoundment to the owner, within 24 hours of said impoundment, the notice to be
sent to the owner at the address given to the City Clerk-Treasurer’s office at
the time the tag is obtained. A dog so impounded shall be held by the pound
master for a minimum of seven days, and may be reclaimed by its owner within
that time by payment to the pound master of the time impounding fees, to be set
by the City Council by resolution annually.
(Ord. 58, passed 7-9-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 LICENSING PROCEDURE AND FEES.
   (A)   No dog six months of age or older may be kept within the city unless a
license therefor shall first be secured. Licenses shall be issued by the City
Clerk-Treasurer, upon payment by the applicant of the fees fixed by the City
Council. In all instances, an applicant must furnish a certificate from a
veterinarian to the effect that the applicant’s dog has been vaccinated for
rabies as provided in §
90.12.
   (B)   The owner of a dog shall pay a license fee to the city on or before
January 1 of each year, or within 30 days of acquiring ownership or possession
of any unlicensed dog. License fees shall be set by the City Council by
resolution annually, and shall be for the following designation: Neutered male
dog, spayed female dog, unneutered male dog, unspayed female dog.
   (C)   Upon the payment of the license fee, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall
deliver a receipt to the person who pays the fees, and retain a duplicate of
the license. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall procure a sufficient number of
suitable tags, the shape and/or color of which shall be different for each
license year, and shall deliver one tag to the person paying the license fee.
   (D)   The owner shall cause the tag to be affixed by a permanent fastening
to the collar of the dog so licensed in such manner that the tag may be easily
seen by the officers of the city. Any dog within the city not wearing a tag for
the current license year shall be deemed to be unlicensed.
   (E)   The Animal Control Officer shall mail written notice to the owner of
any unlicensed dog. Such notice shall be mailed to the location where the dog
is being harbored or kept, if known, and to the address designated by the owner
of the license application. An owner shall license any unlicensed dog within 30
days after said notice is mailed.
   (F)   In case any dog’s tag is lost, a duplicate may be issued by the City
Clerk-Treasurer upon the presentation of a receipt showing the payment of the
license fee for the current year, and after payment by the applicant of a fee,
to be set by the City Council by resolution annually, for issuance of a
duplicate license.
   (G)   All fees for the licensing, impounding, and maintenance of dogs,
including penalties for late application, may be fixed and determined by the
City Council, adopted by resolution, and uniformly enforced. Such fees may from
time to time be amended by the City Council by resolution. A copy of the
resolution setting forth currently effective fees shall be kept on file in the
office of the City Clerk-Treasurer and shall be open to inspection during
regular business hours.
(Ord. 58, passed 7-9-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED ANIMALS.
   Any dog which is not claimed as provided in this subchapter after seven days
of impounding may be sold to anyone desiring to purchase the animal. The Animal
Control Officer shall determine the price, which shall reflect the breed of dog
and the impoundment cost. Such funds shall be placed in the General Fund of the
city. Any animal which is not claimed by the owner or sold shall be euthanized
and buried at the direction of the pound master.
(Ord. 58, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 90.08 ANIMAL SHELTER.
   The City Council may designate as the pound or animal shelter a suitable
kennel or other animal facility, either within or without the city limits.
(Ord. 58, passed 7-9-2001)
§ 90.09 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Adoption by reference. Except as otherwise provided in this section,
the regulatory and procedural provisions of M.S. §§ 347.50 through 347.565
(commonly referred to as the “Dangerous Dog Regulations”), as they may be
amended from time to time, are adopted by reference.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has, when unprovoked, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Has killed a domestic animal when unprovoked while off the
owner’s property;
         (c)   Has attacked one or more persons on two or more occasions; or
         (d)   Has been found to be potentially dangerous and after the owner
has notice of the same, the dog aggressively bites, attacks, or endangers the
safety of humans or domestic animals.
      DOG. Both the male and female of the canine species, commonly accepted as
domesticated household pets.
      GREAT BODILY HARM. Bodily injury which creates a high probability of
death, or which causes serious permanent disfigurement, or which causes a
permanent or protracted loss or impairment of the function of any bodily member
or organ or other serious bodily harm.
      MAINTENANCE COSTS. Any costs incurred as a result of seizing an animal
for impoundment, including, but not limited to, the capturing, impounding,
keeping, treating, examining, securing, confining, feeding, destroying,
boarding, or maintaining seized animals, whether these services are provided by
the city or the pound.
      OWNER. Any person or persons, firm, corporation, organization,
department, or association owning, possessing, harboring, keeping, having an
interest in, or having care, custody, or control of a dog.
      POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. A dog that:
         (a)   Has, when unprovoked, inflicted a bite on a human or domestic
animal on public or private property;
         (b)   Has, when unprovoked, chased or approached a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private
property, other than the owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of attack;
or
         (c)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely enclosed and
locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the dog from escaping and to
provide protection for the dog from the elements. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does not
include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure that
would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure in
which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only barriers
which prevent the dog from exiting. The enclosure shall not allow the egress of
the dog in any manner without human assistance. A pen or kennel shall meet the
following minimum specifications:
         (a)   A minimum overall floor size of 32 square feet;
         (b)   Sidewalls shall have a minimum height of five feet and be
constructed of 11-gauge or heavier wire. Openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches, support post shall be one and one-fourth inch or larger steel pipe
buried in the ground 18 inches or more. When a concrete floor is not provided,
the sidewalls shall be buried a minimum of 18 inches in the ground;
         (c)   A cover over the entire pen or kennel shall be provided. The
cover shall be constructed of the same gauge wire or heavier as the sidewalls,
and openings in the wire shall not exceed two inches; and
         (d)   An entrance/exit gate shall be provided and be constructed of
the same material as the sidewalls and openings in the wire shall not exceed
two inches. The gate shall be self-closing and self-locking. The gate shall be
locked at all times when the dog is in the pen or kennel.
      SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Bodily injury that involves a temporary but
substantial disfigurement, or that causes a temporary but substantial loss or
impairment of the function of any bodily member or organ or that causes a
fracture of any bodily member.
      UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the dog is not purposely excited,
stimulated, agitated, or disturbed.
   (C)   Declaration of dangerous or potentially dangerous dog.
      (1)   A police officer, community service officer, animal control
officer, or other authorized city employee may declare a dog to be dangerous or
potentially dangerous when the officer has probable cause to believe that a dog
is dangerous or potentially dangerous. The following factors will be considered
in determining a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog:
         (a)   Whether any injury or damage to a person by the dog was caused
while the dog was protecting or defending a person or the dog’s offspring
within the immediate vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault;
         (b)   The size and strength of the dog, including jaw strength, and
the animal’s propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals; and
         (c)   Whether the dog has wounds, scarring, is observed in a fight, or
has other indications that the dog has been or will be used, trained, or
encouraged to fight with another animal or whose owner is in possession of any
training apparatus, paraphernalia, or drugs used to prepare such dogs to fight
with other animals.
      (2)   Beginning six months after a dog is declared dangerous or
potentially dangerous, an owner may request annually that the city review the
designation. The owner must provide evidence that the dog’s behavior has
changed due to the dog’s age, neutering, environment, completion of obedience
training, or other factors. If enough evidence is provided, the city may
rescind the designation.
      (3)   (a)   The provisions of this section do not apply to dogs used by
law enforcement.
         (b)   Dogs may not be declared dangerous or potentially dangerous if
the threat, injury, or danger was sustained by a person who was:
            1.   Committing a willful trespass or other tort upon the premises
occupied by the owner of the dog;
            2.   Provoking, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog, or who
can be shown to have a history of repeatedly provoking, tormenting, abusing, or
assaulting the dog; or
            3.   Committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (D)   License required. The owner must annually license dangerous and
potentially dangerous dogs with the city and must license a newly declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous dog within 14 days after notice that a dog
has been declared dangerous or potentially dangerous. Regardless of any appeal
that may be requested, the owner must comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52(a) and (c), as they may be amended from time to time, regarding proper
enclosures and notification to the city upon transfer or death of the dog,
until and unless a hearing officer or court of law reverses the declaration.
      (1)   Process for dangerous dogs. The city will issue a license to the
owner of a dangerous dog if the owner presents sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   Written proof that there is a surety bond by a surety company
authorized to conduct business in the state in the sum of at least $300,000,
payable to any person injured by a dangerous dog, or receipt of a copy of a
policy of liability insurance issued by an insurance company authorized to do
business in state in the amount of at least $300,000, insuring the owner for
any personal injuries inflicted by the dangerous dog. Such surety bond or
insurance policy shall provide that no cancellation of the bond or policy will
be made unless the city is notified in writing by the surety company or the
insurance company at least ten days prior to such cancellation;
         (c)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and identification number
of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the microchip is not
implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the owner’s expense;
and
         (d)   The owner provides proof that the dog has been sterilized. If
the owner does not sterilize the dog within 30 days, the city may seize the dog
and sterilize it at the owner’s expense.
      (2)   Process for potentially dangerous dogs. The city will issue a
license to the owner of a potentially dangerous dog if the owner presents
sufficient evidence that:
         (a)   There is a proper enclosure;
         (b)   The owner has paid the annual license fee; and
         (c)   The owner has had a microchip identification implanted in the
potentially dangerous dog. The name of the microchip manufacturer and
identification number of the microchip must be provided to the city. If the
microchip is not implanted by the owner, it may be implanted by the city at the
owner’s expense.
      (3)   Inspection. A pre-license inspection of the premises to ensure
compliance with the city code is required. If the city issues a license to the
owner of a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, the city shall be allowed at
any reasonable time to inspect the dog, the proper enclosure, and all places
where the animal is kept.
      (4)   Warning symbol. The owner of a dangerous dog licensed under this
section must post a sign with the uniform dangerous dog warning symbol on the
property in order to inform children that there is a dangerous dog on the
property. The sign will be provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (5)   Tags. A dangerous dog licensed under this section must wear a
standardized, easily identifiable tag at all times that contains the uniform
dangerous dog symbol, identifying the dog as dangerous. The tag shall be
provided by the city upon issuance of the license.
      (6)   License fee. The city will charge the owner an annual license fee
for a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (E)   Properly restrained in proper enclosure or outside of proper
enclosure. While on the owner’s property, an owner of a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog must keep it in a proper enclosure. Inside a
residential home, there must be a secured area maintained where the dog will
stay when persons other than family members are present. If the dog is outside
the proper enclosure, the dog must be muzzled and restrained by a substantial
chain or leash no longer than four feet and under the physical restraint of an
adult. The muzzle must be made in a manner that will prevent the dog from
biting any person or animal but that will not cause injury to the dog or
interfere with its vision or respiration.
   (F)   Notification requirements to city.
      (1)   Relocation or death. The owner of a dog that has been declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous must notify the City Clerk-Treasurer in
writing if the dog is to be relocated from its current address or if the dog
has died. The notification must be given in writing within 30 days of the
relocation or death. The notification must include the current owner’s name and
address, and the new owner’s name and the relocation address. If the relocation
address is outside of the city, the city may notify the local law enforcement
agency of the transfer of the dog into its jurisdiction.
      (2)   Renter’s obligations. A person who owns or possesses a dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog and who will rent property from another where the dog
will reside must disclose to the property owner prior to entering the lease
agreement and at the time of any lease renewal periods that the person owns or
possesses a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog that will reside at the
property. A dog owner who is currently renting property must notify the
property owner within 14 days of city notification if the owned dog is newly
declared as dangerous or potentially dangerous and the owner keeps the dog on
the property.
      (3)   Transfer of ownership into the city. No dog that has been
previously determined to be dangerous or potentially dangerous by another
jurisdiction shall be kept, owned, or harbored in the city unless the dog’s
owner complies with the requirements of this section prior to bringing the dog
into the city. Dogs in violation of this division (F)(3) are subject to
impoundment and destruction.
   (G)   Seizure. Animal Control may immediately seize any dangerous or
potentially dangerous dog if:
      (1)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is declared
dangerous or potentially dangerous, the dog is not validly licensed and no
appeal has been filed;
      (2)   After 14 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or surety coverage as
required or such required insurance is cancelled;
      (3)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure;
      (4)   The dog is outside the proper enclosure and not under proper
restraint, as required by division (E) above;
      (5)   After 30 days after the owner has notice that the dog is dangerous,
the dog is not sterilized, as required by division (D)(1)(d) above; and/or
      (6)   The dog’s microchip has been removed.
   (H)   Reclamation. A dog seized under division (G) above may be reclaimed by
the owner of the dog upon payment of maintenance costs and presenting proof to
Animal Control that the requirements of this section have been met. A dog not
reclaimed under this division (H) within seven days may be disposed of and the
owner will be liable to the city for maintenance costs. A person claiming an
interest in a seized dog may prevent disposition of the dog by posting a
security in an amount sufficient to provide for the dog’s maintenance costs.
The security must be posted with the city within seven days of the seizure,
inclusive of the date seized.
   (I)   Subsequent offenses: seizure. If a person has been convicted of
violating a provision of this section, and the person is charged with a
subsequent violation relating to the same dog, the dog may be seized. If the
owner is convicted of the violation for which the dog was seized, the court may
order that the dog be destroyed in a proper and humane manner and the owner pay
the maintenance costs. If the owner is not convicted and the dog is not
reclaimed by the owner within seven days after the owner has been notified that
the dog may be reclaimed, the dog may be disposed of in manner permitted by
law.
   (J)   Notice, hearings.
      (1)   Notice. After a dog has been declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous or has been seized for destruction, the city shall give notice by
delivering or mailing it to the owner of the dog, or by posting a copy of it at
the place where the dog is kept, or by delivering it to a person residing on
the property, and telephoning, if possible. The notice shall include:
         (a)   A description of the seized dog; the authority for and purpose
of the declaration and seizure; the time, place, and circumstances under which
the dog was declared; and the telephone number and contact person where the dog
is kept;
         (b)   A statement that the owner of the dog may request a hearing
concerning the declaration and that failure to do so within 14 days of the date
of the notice will terminate the owner’s right to a hearing;
         (c)   A statement that if an appeal request is made within 14 days of
the notice, the owner must immediately comply with the requirements of M.S. §
347.52, paragraphs (a) and (c), as they may be amended from time to time,
regarding proper enclosures and notification to the city upon transfer or death
of the dog, until such time as the hearing officer issues an opinion;
         (d)   A statement that if the hearing officer affirms the dangerous
dog declaration, the owner will have 14 days from receipt of that decision to
comply with all other requirements of M.S. §§ 347.51, 347.515, and 347.52, as
they may be amended from time to time;
         (e)   A form to request a hearing; and
         (f)   A statement that if the dog has been seized, all maintenance
costs of the care, keeping, and disposition of the dog pending the outcome of
the hearing are the responsibility of the owner, unless a court or hearing
officer finds that the seizure or impoundment was not reasonably justified by
law.
      (2)   Right to hearing.
         (a)   After a dog has been declared dangerous, potentially dangerous,
or has been seized for
destruction, the owner may appeal in writing to the city within 14 days after
notice of the declaration or seizure. Failure to do so within 14 days of the
date of the notice will terminate the owner’s right to a hearing. The owner
must pay a $100 fee for an appeal hearing.
         (b)   The appeal hearing will be held within 14 days of the request.
The hearing officer must be an impartial employee of the city or an impartial
person retained by the city to conduct the hearing.
         (c)   If the declaration or destruction is upheld by the hearing
officer, actual expenses of the hearing up to a maximum of $1,000, as well as
all maintenance costs, will be the responsibility of the dog’s owner. The
hearing officer shall issue a decision on the matter within ten days after the
hearing. The decision shall be delivered to the dog’s owner by hand delivery or
registered mail as soon as practical, and a copy shall be provided to the city.
The decision of the hearing officer is final.
   (K)   Destruction of certain dogs. The Police Chief and/or hearing officer
are authorized to order the destruction or other disposition of any dog, after
proper notice is given pursuant to division (J) above and upon a finding that:
      (1)   The dog has habitually destroyed property or habitually trespassed
in a damaging manner on property of persons other than the owner;
      (2)   The dog has been declared dangerous, the owner’s right to appeal
hereunder has been exhausted or expired, and the owner has failed to comply
with the provisions of this section;
      (3)   It is determined that the dog is infected with rabies;
      (4)   The dog inflicted substantial or great bodily harm on a human on
public or private property without provocation;
      (5)   The dog inflicted multiple bites on a human on public or private
property without provocation;
      (6)   The dog bit multiple human victims on public or private property in
the same attack without provocation;
      (7)   The dog bit a human on public or private property without
provocation in an attack where more than one dog participated in the attack; or
      (8)   The dog poses a danger to the public’s health, safety, or welfare.
In determining whether the dog poses a danger to the public’s health, safety,
or welfare, the following factors may be considered:
         (a)   The dog weighs more than 20 pounds;
         (b)   The strength of the dog, including jaw strength;
         (c)   The dog’s tolerance for pain;
         (d)   The dog’s tendency to refuse to terminate an attack;
         (e)   The dog’s propensity to bite humans or other domestic animals;
         (f)   The dog’s potential for unpredictable behavior;
         (g)   The dog’s aggressiveness; and
         (h)   The likelihood that a bite by the dog will result in serious
injury.
   (L)   Concealing of dogs. No person may harbor, hide, or conceal a dog that
the city has the authority to seize or that has been ordered into custody for
destruction or other proper disposition.
   (M)   Dog ownership prohibited.
      (1)   Except as provided below, a person shall not own a dog if the
person has been:
         (a)   Convicted of a third or subsequent violation of divisions (D),
(E), or (F) above, or similar ordinance in another jurisdiction, or M.S. §§
347.51, 347.515, or 347.52, as they may be amended from time to time;
         (b)   Convicted of second degree manslaughter due to negligent or
intentional use of a dog under M.S. § 609.205(4), as it may be amended from
time to time; or
         (c)   Convicted of gross misdemeanor harm caused by a dog under M.S. §
609.226, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Any person who owns a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog and is
found to be in violation of any of the provisions of this section or had owned
a dangerous or potentially dangerous dog but never achieved compliance with
this section may be prohibited from ownership or custody of another dog for a
period of five years after the original declaration. Any dog found to be in
violation may be impounded until due process is completed, pursuant to division
(J) above.
      (3)   If any member of a household is prohibited from owning a dog in
divisions (M)(1) or (M)(2) above, unless specifically approved with or without
restrictions by the city, no person in the household is permitted to own a dog.
   (N)   Dog ownership prohibition review. Beginning three years after a
conviction under division (M)(1) above that prohibits a person from owning a
dog, and annually thereafter, the person may request in writing to the Police
Chief that the city review the prohibition. The city may consider such facts as
the seriousness of the violation or violations that led to the prohibition, any
criminal convictions, or other facts that the city deems appropriate. The city
may rescind the prohibition entirely or rescind it with limitations. The city
also may establish conditions a person must meet before the prohibition is
rescinded, including, but not limited to, successfully completing dog training
or dog handling courses. If the city rescinds a person’s prohibition and the
person subsequently fails to comply with any limitations imposed by the city or
the person is convicted of any animal violation involving unprovoked bites or
dog attacks, the city may permanently prohibit the person from owning a dog in
this state.
Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 VARIOUS OFFENSES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be a violation of this code for any person to keep or
harbor a dog which habitually barks or cries. HABITUAL BARKING shall be defined
as barking for repeated intervals of at least five minutes with less than one
minute of interruption. The barking must also be audible off of the owner’s or
caretaker’s premises.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer or police officer shall not enter the
property of the owner of an animal described in this division (A) unless the
officer has first obtained the permission of the owner to do so or has obtained
a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, as provided for in §
10.20, to search for and seize the animal.
   (B)   It shall be considered a nuisance for any dog to frequent school
grounds, parks; to chase vehicles; to worry, chase, or molest any persons, if
such person is not on the property of the owner of the dog; to worry, chase, or
molest any persons traveling peaceably on the public road; or to molest,
defile, or destroy any property, public or private. Failure on the part of the
owner to prevent his or her dog from committing an act of nuisance shall be
subject to the penalties hereinafter provided.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any unauthorized person to break open the pound, to
attempt to do so, or to take or let out any dog therefrom, or to take or
attempt to take from any officer any dog taken up by an officer in compliance
with this subchapter, or in any manner to interfere with or hinder such officer
in the discharge of duties under this subchapter.
   (D)   It is unlawful to counterfeit or attempt to counterfeit the tags
provided for herein, or to take from any dog a tag legally placed upon it by
its owner with the intention of placing it upon another dog.
   (E)   Dog tags shall not be transferable. No refund shall be made for any
dog license either because of the dog leaving the city or because of its death.
   (F)   Anyone walking their dog will be responsible for the prompt clean-up
of the dog’s excrement and for its proper disposal.
(Ord. 58, passed 7-9-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 KENNELS.
   No person may maintain a kennel in the city for dogs without securing a
license from the city therefor and paying a fee to the city, to be set by the
City Council by resolution annually. Such license shall be in addition to the
kennel license as prescribed in M.S. §§ 347.32 to 347.40, as they may be
amended from time to time. The definition of KENNEL set forth in M.S. § 347.31,
Subd. 2, as it may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted by
reference, the same as if it set forth in its entirety herein.
(Ord. 58, passed 7-9-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 RABIES VACCINATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Every dog six months of age and older, at the expense of the owner,
shall be vaccinated against rabies and shall be revaccinated in 24-month
intervals thereafter, or as directed by a proclamation of the City Council
ordering more frequent vaccinations in the event of a rabies outbreak.
   (B)   Whenever the prevalence of rabies renders such action necessary to
protect the public’s health and safety, the City Council, upon advice of the
County Health Officer, shall issue a proclamation declaring such emergency and
dogs running at large during the time fixed in the proclamation and suspected
of being rabid may be euthanized by the City Police Department without notice
to the owner.
   (C)   Every owner of a dog shall obtain from the dog’s veterinarian, at the
time of vaccination of any dog, a certificate of rabies vaccination, which
certificate shall include the following information:
      (1)   Owner’s name and address;
      (2)   Description of the animal;
      (3)   Date of vaccination;
      (4)   Rabies vaccination tag number; and
      (5)   Signature of the veterinarian.
   (D)   A copy of the certificate shall be delivered to the owner of the dog
and a copy retained by the issuing veterinarian. The veterinarian and the owner
shall retain their copies for the interval between vaccinations specified in
division (A) above. The owner of the dog shall also obtain from the
veterinarian a tag serially numbered as evidence that the dog has been
vaccinated. Said tag must be attached to a collar worn by the dog while off the
premises of the owner.
   (E)   This section does not apply to dogs which:
      (1)   Are owned by a person temporarily remaining within the city for
less than 30 days;
      (2)   Are brought into the city for field trials or show purposes; or
      (3)   Are used for hunting in the state for less than 30 days within any
license year.
   (F)   Any dog suspected of being afflicted with rabies which has not been
vaccinated in accordance with this section that has bitten a person or caused
an abrasion of the skin of such person, shall be seized and impounded for a
period of not less than ten days. If, upon examination by a veterinarian, the
dog has no signs of rabies at the end of the impoundment, then it may be
released to the owner. If the veterinarian determines that the dog is rabid,
then said animal shall be euthanized.
   (G)   Any dog vaccinated in accordance with this section which has bitten a
person shall be confined by the owner or at the city pound for a period of ten
days, at which time, the dog shall be examined by a licensed veterinarian, then
the dog may be released from confinement to its owner. If the veterinarian
determines that the dog is rabid, then said animal shall be euthanized.
   (H)   In the case of a dog that has been bitten by a rabid animal, the
following rules shall apply.
      (1)   In the case of dogs which have not been vaccinated in accordance
with this subchapter which have been bitten by a known rabid animal, said
bitten dog shall be euthanized upon written consent of the owner.
      (2)   If the owner is unwilling to have the bitten dog euthanized, strict
isolation of the dog in a kennel under veterinarian supervision for a minimum
of six months shall be required. The owner of the dog shall pay the expense
thereof.
   (I)   If the bitten dog is vaccinated in accordance with the provisions of
this section, the dog shall be held as follows.
      (1)   The dog shall immediately be revaccinated and confined at the
owner’s home for a period of 30 days following revaccination.
      (2)   If the dog is not immediately revaccinated, the animal shall be
confined in strict isolation in a kennel for six months under the supervision
of a veterinarian.
   (J)   Any dog found off the owner’s premises and not wearing a valid rabies
vaccination tag shall be impounded. Any unvaccinated dog that is so impounded
may be reclaimed by its owner by payment of the prescribed pound fees and
compliance with the rabies vaccination requirements of this subchapter, proof
of which shall be furnished to the City Clerk-Treasurer’s office within 72
hours of the dog’s release from the pound.
(Ord. 58, passed 7-9-2001) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who is found to be in violation of §§
90.04 through
90.06 or 90.10 through 90.12 shall be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $200, together with all appropriate costs
and fees as required by law.
      (2)   Any person who harbors a dangerous dog contrary to the provisions
of §
90.09 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by imprisonment
not to exceed 90 days in jail, and/or by a fine not to exceed $700, together
with all appropriate costs and fees as required by law.
(Ord. 58, passed 7-9-2001)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Assessable current services
   
91.02   Tree diseases and shade tree pest control
Nuisances
   
91.15   Public nuisance
   
91.16   Public nuisances affecting health
   
91.17   Public nuisances affecting morals and decency
   
91.18   Public nuisances affecting peace and safety
   
91.19   Nuisance parking and storage
   
91.20   Inoperable motor vehicles
   
91.21   Building maintenance and appearance
   
91.22   Duties of city officers
   
91.23   Abatement
   
91.24   Recovery of cost
Weeds
   
91.35   Short title
   
91.36   Jurisdiction
   
91.37   Definitions; exclusions
   
91.38   Owners responsible for trimming, removal, and the like
   
91.39   Filing complaint
   
91.40   Notice of violations
   
91.41   Appeals
   
91.42   Abatement by city
   
91.43   Liability
Open Burning
   
91.55   Rules and laws adopted by reference
   
91.56   Definitions
   
91.57   Prohibited materials
   
91.58   Permit required for open burning
   
91.59   Purposes allowed for open burning
   
91.60   Permit application for open burning; permit fees
   
91.61   Permit process for open burning
   
91.62   Permit holder responsibility
   
91.63   Revocation of open burning permit
   
91.64   Denial of open burning permit
   
91.65   Burning ban or air quality alert
   
91.66   External solid fuel-fired heating devices (outdoor wood burning stoves)
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 ASSESSABLE CURRENT SERVICES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CURRENT SERVICE. One or more of the following: snow, ice, or rubbish
removal from sidewalks; weed elimination from plots adjacent to sidewalks or
from private property; removal or elimination of public health or safety
hazards from private property, excluding any hazardous building included in
M.S. §§ 463.15 through 463.26, as they may amended from time to time;
installation or repair of water service lines; street sprinkling, street
flushing, light street oiling, or other dust treatment of streets; repair of
sidewalks and alleys; trimming and care of trees and removal of unsound and
insect-infected trees from the public streets or private property; and the
operation of a street lighting system.
   (B)   Snow, ice, dirt, and rubbish.
      (1)   Duty of owners and occupants. The owner and the occupant of any
property adjacent to a public sidewalk shall use diligence to keep the walk
safe for pedestrians. No owner or occupant shall allow snow, ice, dirt, or
rubbish to remain on the walk longer than 24 hours after its deposit thereon.
Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation.
      (2)   Removal by city. The City Clerk-Treasurer or other person
designated by the City Council may cause removal from all public sidewalks all
snow, ice, dirt, and rubbish as soon as possible beginning 24 hours after any
matter has been deposited thereon or after the snow has ceased to fall. The
City Clerk-Treasurer or other designated person shall keep a record showing the
cost of removal adjacent to each separate lot and parcel.
   (C)   Public health and safety hazards. When the city removes or eliminates
public health or safety hazards from private property under the following
provisions of this chapter, the administrative officer responsible for doing
the work shall keep a record of the cost of the removal or elimination against
each parcel of property affected and annually deliver that information to the
City Clerk-Treasurer.
   (D)   Installation and repair of water service lines. Whenever the city
installs or repairs water service lines serving private property, the City
Clerk-Treasurer shall keep a record of the total cost of the installation or
repair against the property.
   (E)   Damage to public property. Any person driving any vehicle, equipment,
object, or contrivance upon any street, road, highway, or structure shall be
liable for all damages which the surface or structure thereof may sustain as a
result of any illegal operation, or driving or moving of the vehicle,
equipment, or object or contrivance; or as a result of operating, driving, or
moving any vehicle, equipment, object, or contrivance weighing in excess of the
maximum weight permitted by statute or this code. When the driver is not the
owner of the vehicle, equipment, object, or contrivance, but is operating,
driving, or moving it with the express or implied permission of the owner, then
the owner and the driver shall be jointly and severally liable for any such
damage. Any person who willfully acts or fails to exercise due care and by that
act damages any public property shall be liable for the amount thereof, which
amount shall be collectable by action or as a lien under M.S. § 514.67, as it
may be amended from time to time.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 TREE DISEASES AND SHADE TREE PEST CONTROL.
   (A)   Declaration of policy. The health of the trees in the city is
threatened by shade tree pests, and the loss or ill health of trees growing
upon public and private property substantially depreciates the value of
property within the city and impairs the safety, good order, general welfare,
and convenience of the public. In addition to and in accordance with M.S. §§
89.001, 89.01, and 89.51 through 89.64, as those sections may be amended from
time to time, the provisions of this section are adopted to attempt to control
and prevent the spread of these shade tree pests.
   (B)   Jurisdiction. The city shall have control of all street trees, shrubs,
and other plantings now or hereafter in any street, park, public right-of-way,
or easement, or other public place within the city limits, and shall have the
power to plant, care for, maintain, remove, and replace such trees, shrubs, and
other plantings.
   (C)   Declaration of a shade tree pest. The City Council may declare any
vertebrate or invertebrate animal,   plant pathogen, or plant threatening to
cause significant damage to a shade tree or community forest as defined by M.S.
§ 89.001, as it may be amended from time to time, to be a shade tree pest and
prescribe control measures to effectively eradicate, control or manage the
shade tree pest including necessary timelines for action.
   (D)   Public nuisances declared. A shade tree pest declared by City Council
occurring within a declared control zone is a public nuisance.
   (E)   Shade tree pest nuisances are unlawful. It is unlawful for any person
to permit any public nuisance as defined in this section to remain on any
premises the person owns or controls within the city. The nuisance may be
abated as provided in this section.
   (F)   Definition of control areas. Upon declaring a shade tree pest, the
City Council may define one or more locations within the geographic boundaries
of the city to be within a shade tree pest control area provided such locations
are characterized by biologic, composition, environmental, and size factors
favorable to successful application of the control measures prescribed by City
Council.
   (G)   Tree Inspector. The City Council may appoint a Tree Inspector to
coordinate the activities of the city relating to the control and prevention of
damage by shade tree pests. The Tree Inspector will recommend to the City
Council the details of any program for the declaration, control, and prevention
of shade tree pests. The Tree Inspector is authorized to enforce or cause to be
enforced the tasks incident to such a program adopted by the City Council. The
term TREE INSPECTOR includes any person designated by City Council or the Tree
Inspector to carry out activities authorized in this section.
   (H)   Abatement of shade tree pest nuisances.
      (1)   In abating a nuisance declared by ordinance under divisions (B) and
(C) above, the organism, condition, or plant and any tree, wood, or material
identified as injurious to the health of shade trees shall be removed or
effectively treated so as to destroy and prevent as fully as possible the
spread of the shade tree pest. Such abatement procedures shall be carried out
in accordance with the control measures and areas prescribed by ordinance
according to division (C) above and divisions (K) and (O) below.
      (2)   In addition, should the appropriate abatement procedure be removal
and the tree(s) and/or hedge(s) be within the limits of a highway in a rural
area within the city’s jurisdiction, M.S. § 160.22, as it may be amended from
time to time, shall be complied with as necessary.
   (I)   Reporting discovery of shade tree pest. Any owner or occupier of land
or any person engaged in tree trimming or removal who becomes aware of the
existence of public nuisance caused by a shade tree pest as defined under
division (C) above shall report the same to the city.
   (J)   Registration of tree care firms. Any person, firm, or corporation that
provides tree care, tree trimming, or removal of trees, limbs, branches, brush,
or shrubs for hire must be registered with the Minnesota Commissioner of
Agriculture under M.S. § 18G.07, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (K)   Inspection and application of control measures.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector is authorized to inspect premises and places
within the city to determine whether shade tree pests exist thereon and to
investigate all reported incidents of shade tree pests. The Tree Inspector is
authorized to take all reasonable measures to prevent the maintenance of public
nuisances and may enforce the provisions relating to abatement in this section.
Diagnosis of shade tree pests may be by the presence of commonly recognized
symptoms or by tests as may be recommended by the Commissioner of the Minnesota
Department of Agriculture or the Commissioner of the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources or other reliable means.
      (2)   Except in situations of imminent danger to human life and safety,
the Tree Inspector shall not enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing maintenance of public nuisances without the permission
of the owner, resident, or other person in control of the property, unless the
Tree Inspector has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry.
      (3)   No person, firm, or corporation shall interfere with the Tree
Inspector acting under his authority while engaged in activities authorized by
this section.
   (L)   Standard abatement procedure. Except as provided in divisions (M) and
(O) below, whenever a Tree Inspector determines with reasonable certainty that
a public nuisance as described by this section is being maintained or exists on
premises in the city, the Tree Inspector is authorized to abate a public
nuisance according to the following procedure.
      (1)   The Tree Inspector will notify in writing the owner of record or
occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be terminated
or abated. The notice may be given in person or by mail. Failure of any party
to receive the mail does not invalidate the service of the notice. A copy of
the notice shall be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   The notice of abatement shall state that unless the public nuisance
is abated by the owner or occupant, it will be abated by the city at the
expense of the owner or occupant. The notice shall specify the control measures
to be taken to abate the nuisance, and provide a reasonable amount of time to
abate the nuisance. The notice will also state that the owner or occupant has
the right to appeal the determination that a public nuisance exists by
submitting a request in writing to the City Clerk-Treasurer within seven days
after service of the notice, or before the date by which abatement must be
completed, whichever comes first.
      (3)   If no timely appeal is submitted, and the notice of abatement and
its prescribed control measures are not complied with within the time provided
by the notice or any additional time granted, the Tree Inspector or designated
person shall have the authority to obtain permission or an administrative
search warrant, enter the property and carry out abatement in accordance with
the notice of abatement.
   (M)   High cost abatement. If the Tree Inspector determines that the cost of
abating a nuisance will exceed $5,000 based on a reasonable, good faith
estimate, the written notice referred to in division (L) above must provide
that if the nuisance is not abated within the reasonable amount of time
provided, the matter will be referred to the City Council for a hearing. The
date, time, and location of the hearing must be provided in the notice.
   (N)   Appeal procedure. If the City Clerk-Treasurer receives a written
request for a hearing on the question of whether a public nuisance in fact
exists, the City Council shall hold a hearing within seven calendar days
following receipt by the City Clerk-Treasurer of the written request. At least
three days notice shall be given to the individual who made the written request
for the hearing. The City Council may modify the abatement notice or extend the
time by which abatement must be completed. Each owner, agent of the owner,
occupant, and lienholder of the subject property or properties in attendance,
if any, shall be given the opportunity to present evidence at the hearing.
After holding the hearing, the City Council may issue an order requiring
abatement of the nuisance.
   (O)   Abatement procedure in event of imminent danger.
      (1) If the Tree Inspector determines that the danger of infestation to
other shade trees is imminent and delay in control measures may put public
health, safety, or welfare in immediate danger, the Tree Inspector may provide
for abatement without following divisions (L) or (M) above. The Tree Inspector
must reasonably attempt to notify the owner or occupant of the affected
property of the intended action and the right to appeal the abatement and any
cost recovery at the next regularly scheduled City Council meeting.
      (2)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the
city, without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition
which poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (P)   Recovery of cost of abatement; liability and assessment.
      (1)   The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been abated by the
city shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of the abatement,
including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been completed and the
cost determined, the City Clerk-Treasurer or other official shall prepare a
bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the amount shall be
immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as it may
be amended from time to time, the City Clerk-Treasurer may list the total
unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as other charges for
current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from
time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which the charges are
attributable. The City Council may then certify the charges against the
property under that statute and other pertinent statutes to the County Auditor
for collection along with current taxes the following year or in annual
installments as the City Council may determine in each case.
   (Q)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this
section shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which
may be imposed for any crime which is a misdemeanor under this section,
including the state statutes specifically adopted by reference, shall be a
sentence of not more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $1,000, or both.
      (2)   Upon conviction of a misdemeanor, the costs of prosecution may be
added. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which
a violation occurs or continues.
      (3)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this section shall not subject the officer or employee
to the penalty imposed for a violation.
      (4)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section, if any
person, firm, or corporation fails to comply with any provision of this
section, the City Council or any official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct, or abate the
violation.
   (R)   Declared shade tree pests, control measures, and control areas.
      (1)   Oak Wilt. Oak Wilt is declared a shade tree pest and is defined as
any living or dead tree, log, firewood, limb, branch, stump, or other portion
of a tree from any species of the genus Quercus existing within the control
area defined that has bark attached and that exceeds three inches in diameter
or ten inches in circumference and contains to any degree any spore or
reproductive structures of the fungus Ceratocystis fagacearum. Control measures
prescribed for abating Oak Wilt Disease are as follows.
         (a)   Installation of a root graft barrier. A root graft barrier can
be ordered installed to prevent the underground spread of Oak Wilt Disease. The
city will mark the location of the root graft barrier. The barrier disrupts
transmission of the fungus within the shared vascular systems of root grafted
trees. The barrier is created by excavating or vibratory plowing a line at
least 42 inches deep between any oak tree infected with Oak Wilt Disease and
each nearby and apparently healthy oak tree within 50 feet of the infected
tree.
         (b)   Removal and disposal of trees on property zoned for residential
and commercial use. On property that is zoned residential and commercial, the
city may mark for removal trees that have the potential to produce spores of
the fungus Ceratocvstis fagacearum. After, and in no case before the
installation of the root graft barrier and no later than May 1 of the year
following infection, all marked trees must be felled. The stump from such
felled trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if
taller, must be completely debarked. If, however, after the city prescribes the
location for a root graft barrier, the city determines that installation of the
barrier is impossible because of the presence of pavement or obstructions such
as a septic system or utility line, the city may mark for removal all oak trees
whether living or dead, infected or not, and located between an infected tree
and the marked barrier location. These marked trees must be felled and disposed
of no later than May 1 of the year following infection. The stump from such
felled trees must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if
taller, must be completely debarked.
         (c)   Removal and disposal of trees on all other property. On all
other property, the city may mark for removal all oak trees whether living or
dead, infected or not, and located between an infected tree and the marked
barrier location. These marked trees must be felled and disposed of no later
than May 1 of the year following infection. The stump from such felled trees
must not extend more than three inches above the ground or, if taller, must be
completely debarked.
         (d)   Wood disposal. All wood more than three inches in diameter or
ten inches in circumference from such felled trees must be disposed of by
burying or debarking or chipping or sawing into wane-free lumber or by
splitting into firewood, stacking the firewood and immediately covering the
woodpile with unbroken 4-mil or thicker plastic sheeting that is sealed into
the ground until October 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in
which the tree was felled or by burning before May 1 of the year following
infection. Wood chips from infected trees may be stockpiled or immediately used
in the landscape.
         (e)   The control area for Oak Wilt Disease is defined as all lands
within the boundaries of the city.
      (2)   Emerald Ash Borer. Emerald Ash Borer is declared a shade tree pest
and is defined as an insect that attacks and kills ash trees. The adults are
small, iridescent green beetles that live outside of trees during the summer
months. The larvae are grub or worm-like and live underneath the bark of ash
trees.
         (a)   Control measures prescribed for abating Emerald Ash Borer are
those provided in the document, Guidelines to Slow the Growth and Spread of
Emerald Ash Borer from the Minnesota Department of Agriculture.
         (b)   Definition of control areas. The control area for Emerald Ash
Borer is defined as all lands within the boundaries of the city.
      (3)   Dutch Elm Disease. Dutch Elm Disease is declared a shade tree pest
and is defined as a disease of elm trees caused by the fungus Ophiostoma ulmi
or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi, and includes any living or dead tree, log, firewood,
limb, branch, stump, or other portion of a tree from any species of the genus
Ulmus existing within the control area defined that has bark attached and that
exceeds three inches in diameter or ten inches in circumference and could
contain bark beetles or any spore or reproductive structures of the fungus
Ophiostoma ulmi or Ophiostoma novo-ulmi.
         (a)   Control measures. Control measures prescribed for abating Dutch
Elm Disease are as follows.
            1.   Use of fungicide. Fungicides may be effective in preventing
Dutch Elm Disease when injected into living trees that do not already show
symptoms of Dutch Elm Disease. Fungicide injections on private lands are
optional and, if performed, are at the landowner’s expense.
            2.   Removal and disposal of trees. Prompt removal of diseased
trees or branches reduces breeding sites for elm bark beetles and eliminates
the source of Dutch Elm Disease fungus. Trees that wilt before July 15 must be
removed within 20 days of detection (alternative: 30 days). Trees that wilt
after July 15 must be removed by April 1 of the following year. Diseased trees
not promptly removed will be removed by the city at the landowner’s expense.
Wood may be retained for use as firewood or sawlogs if it is de-barked or
covered from April 15 to October 15 with 4-mil plastic. The edges of the cover
must be buried or sealed to the ground.
         (b)   Definition of control areas. The control area for Dutch Elm
Disease is defined as all lands within the boundaries of the city.
NUISANCES
§ 91.15 PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   A person must not act, or fail to act in a manner that is or causes a public
nuisance. For purpose of this chapter, a person who does any of the following
is guilty of maintaining a public nuisance, which is a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Maintains or permits a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures,
or endangers the safety, health, morals, comfort, or repose of any considerable
number of members of the public;
   (B)   Interferes with, obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage any
public highway or right-of-way, or waters used by the public; or
   (C)   Does any other act or omission declared by law or §§
91.16,
91.17, or
91.18, or any other part of this code to be a public nuisance and for which no
sentence is specifically provided.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING HEALTH.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting health:
   (A)   Exposed accumulation of decayed or unwholesome food or vegetable
matter;
   (B)   All diseased animals running at large;
   (C)   All ponds or pools of stagnant water;
   (D)   Carcasses of animals not buried or destroyed within 24 hours after
death;
   (E)   Accumulations of manure, refuse or other debris;
   (F)   Privy vaults and garbage cans which are not rodent-free or fly-tight
or which are so maintained as to constitute a health hazard or to emit foul and
disagreeable odors;
   (G)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream or lake, canal, or
body of water by sewage, industrial waste or other substances;
   (H)   All noxious weeds and other rank growths of vegetation upon public or
private property;
   (I)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, and soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (J)   All public exposure of people having a contagious disease; and
   (K)   Any offensive trade or business as defined by statute not operating
under local license.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING MORALS AND DECENCY.
   The following are hereby declared to be nuisances affecting public morals
and decency:
   (A)   All gambling devices, slot machines, and punch boards, except as
otherwise authorized and permitted by federal, state, or local law;
   (B)   Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in those occupations;
   (C)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous sexual
intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdy houses;
   (D)   All places where intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor is manufactured or
disposed of in violation of law or where, in violation of law, people are
permitted to resort for the purpose of drinking intoxicating or 3.2% malt
liquor, or where intoxicating or 3.2% malt liquor is kept for sale or other
disposition in violation of law, and all liquor and other property used for
maintaining that place; and
   (E)   Any vehicle used for the unlawful transportation of intoxicating
liquor, or for promiscuous sexual intercourse, or any other immoral or illegal
purpose.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18 PUBLIC NUISANCES AFFECTING PEACE AND SAFETY.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and
safety:
   (A)   All snow and ice not removed from public sidewalks 24 hours after the
snow or other precipitation causing the condition has ceased to fall;
   (B)   All trees, hedges, billboards, or other obstructions which prevent
people from having a clear view of all traffic approaching an intersection;
   (C)   All wires and limbs of trees which are so close to the surface of a
sidewalk or street as to constitute a danger to pedestrians or vehicles;
   (D)   Any person participating in any party or other gathering that causes
the unreasonable disturbing of the peace, quiet, or repose of another person in
such a manner as to be plainly audible at the boundary of the real property,
building, structure, or residence from which the noise originates, or at a
distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise. PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as
sound that can be detected by a person using their unaided hearing faculties;
   (E)   All unnecessary and annoying vibrations;
   (F)   Obstructions and excavations affecting the ordinary public use of
streets, alleys, sidewalks, or public grounds except under conditions as are
permitted by this code or other applicable law;
   (G)   Radio aerials or television antennae erected or maintained in a
dangerous manner;
   (H)   Any use of property abutting on a public street or sidewalk or any use
of a public street or sidewalk which causes large crowds of people to gather,
obstructing traffic, and the free use of the street or sidewalk;
   (I)   All hanging signs, awnings and other similar structures over streets
and sidewalks, so situated so as to endanger public safety, or not constructed
and maintained as provided by ordinance;
   (J)   The allowing of rain water, ice, or snow to fall from any building or
structure upon any street or sidewalk or to flow across any sidewalk;
   (K)   Any barbed wire fence less than six feet above the ground and within
three feet of a public sidewalk or way;
   (L)   All dangerous, unguarded machinery in any public place, or so situated
or operated on private property as to attract the public;
   (M)   Waste water cast upon or permitted to flow upon streets or other
public properties;
   (N)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies, or other material in a manner conducive to the
harboring of rats, mice, snakes, or vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation
among the items so accumulated, or in a manner creating fire, health, or safety
hazards from accumulation;
   (O)   Any well, hole, or similar excavation which is left uncovered or in
another condition as to constitute a hazard to any child or other person coming
on the premises where it is located;
   (P)   Obstruction to the free flow of water in a natural waterway or a
public street drain, gutter, or ditch with trash of other materials;
   (Q)   The placing or throwing on any street, sidewalk or other public
property of any glass, tacks, nails, bottles, or other substance which may
injure any person or animal or damage any pneumatic tire when passing over the
substance;
   (R)   The depositing of garbage or refuse on a public right-of-way or on
adjacent private property;
   (S)   Reflected glare or light from private exterior lighting exceeding 0.5
footcandles as measured on the property line of the property where the lighting
is located when abutting any residential parcel, and one footcandle when
abutting any commercial or industrial parcel;
   (T)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause injury to the
person or property of anyone;
   (U)   (1)   Noises prohibited:
         (a)   Any distinctly and loudly audible noise that unreasonably
annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace,
safety, or welfare of any person, or precludes their enjoyment of property, or
affects their property’s value in such a manner as to be plainly audible at the
boundary of the real property, building, structure, or residence from which the
noise originates, or at a distance of 50 feet from the source of the noise.
(This general prohibition is not limited by any specific restrictions provided
in this chapter). PLAINLY AUDIBLE is defined as sound that can be detected by a
person using their unaided hearing faculties;
         (b)   All obnoxious noises, motor vehicle or otherwise, in violation
of Minn. Rules. Ch. 7030, as they may be amended from time to time, are hereby
incorporated into this ordinance by reference;
         (c)   The use of any vehicle so out of repair or so loaded as to
create loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or other noise;
         (d)   The discharging of the exhaust or permitting the discharge of
the exhaust of any statutory internal combustion engine, motor boat, motor
vehicle, motorcycle, all-terrain vehicle (ATV), snowmobile, or any recreational
device, except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud
or explosive noises therefrom and complies with all applicable state laws and
regulations;
         (e)   Any loud or excessive noise in the loading, unloading, or
unpacking of any vehicle; and
         (f)   The use or operation, or permitting the use or operation, of any
radio receiving set, television set, musical instrument, music device, paging
system, machine, or other device for producing or reproduction of sound in a
distinctly and loudly audible manner so as to disturb the peace, quiet, and
comfort of any person nearby.
      (2)   Hourly restriction of certain operations:
         (a)   Domestic power equipment. No person shall operate a power lawn
mower, power hedge clipper, chain saw, mulcher, garden tiller, edger, drill, or
other similar domestic power maintenance equipment except between the hours of
7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and
9:00 p.m. on any weekend or holiday. Snow removal equipment is exempt from this
provision.
         (b)   Refuse hauling. No person shall collect or remove garbage or
refuse in any residential district except between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and
10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. on
any weekend or holiday.
         (c)   Construction activities. No person shall engage in or permit
construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric, diesel, or
gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the hours of 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on any weekday or between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m. on any weekend or holiday.
         (d)   Radios, music devices, paging systems, and the like. The
operation of any device referred to in division (U)(1)(f) above between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. in a manner so as to be plainly audible at
the property line of the structure or building in which it is located, or at a
distance of 50 feet if the source is located outside a structure or building
shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section.
      (3)   Noise impact statements: The City Council may require any person
applying for a change in zoning classification or a permit or license for any
structure, operation, process, installation, or alteration or project that may
be considered a potential noise source to submit a noise impact statement on a
form prescribed by the City Council. It shall evaluate each such statement and
take its evaluation into account in approving or disapproving the license or
permit applied for or the zoning change requested.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.19 NUISANCE PARKING AND STORAGE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. The outside parking and storage on
residentially-zoned property of large numbers of vehicles and vehicles,
materials, supplies, or equipment not customarily used for residential purposes
in violation of the requirements set forth below is declared to be a public
nuisance because it obstructs views on streets and private property; creates
cluttered and otherwise unsightly areas; prevents the full use of residential
streets for residential parking; introduces commercial advertising signs into
areas where commercial advertising signs are otherwise prohibited; decreases
adjoining landowners’ and occupants’ enjoyment of their property and
neighborhood; and otherwise adversely affects property values and neighborhood
patterns.
   (B)   Unlawful parking and storage.
      (1)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of ice fishing houses, skateboard ramps, playhouses, or other similar non-
permanent structures outside continuously for longer than 24 hours in the front
yard area of residential property unless more than 100 feet back from the front
property line.
      (2)   A person must not place, store, or allow the placement or storage
of pipe, lumber, forms, steel, machinery, or similar materials, including all
materials used in connection with a business, outside on residential property,
unless shielded from public view by an opaque cover or fence.
      (3)   A person must not cause, undertake, permit, or allow the outside
parking and storage of vehicles on residential property unless it complies with
the following requirements.
         (a)   No more than four vehicles per lawful dwelling unit may be
parked or stored anywhere outside on residential property, except as otherwise
permitted or required by the city because of nonresidential characteristics of
the property. This maximum number does not include vehicles of occasional
guests who do not reside on the property.
         (b)   Vehicles that are parked or stored outside in the front-yard
area must be on a paved or graveled parking surface or driveway area.
         (c)   Vehicles, watercraft, and other articles stored outside on
residential property must be owned by a person who resides on that property.
Students who are away at school for periods of time but still claim the
property as their legal residence will be considered residents on the property.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.20 INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Declaration of a nuisance. Any motor vehicles described in this
section shall constitute a hazard to the health and welfare of the residents of
the community as such vehicles can harbor noxious diseases, furnish a shelter
and breeding place for vermin, and present physical danger to the safety and
well-being of children and citizens. Motor vehicles also contain various fluids
which, if released into the environment, can and do cause significant health
risks to the community.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to keep, park, store, or abandon any motor
vehicle which is not in operating condition, partially dismantled, used for
repair of parts or as a source of repair or replacement parts for other
vehicles, kept for scrapping, dismantling, or salvage of any kind, or which is
not properly licensed for operation with the state, pursuant to M.S. §
168B.011, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a motor vehicle enclosed in a building
and/or kept out of view from any street, road, or alley, and which does not
foster complaint from a resident of the city. A privacy fence is permissible.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.21 BUILDING MAINTENANCE AND APPEARANCE.
   (A)   Declaration of nuisance. Buildings, fences, and other structures that
have been so poorly maintained that their physical condition and appearance
detract from the surrounding neighborhood are declared to be public nuisances
because they are unsightly, decrease adjoining landowners and occupants’
enjoyment of their property and neighborhood, and adversely affect property
values and neighborhood patterns.
   (B)   Standards. A building, fence, or other structure is a public nuisance
if it does not comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   No part of any exterior surface may have deterioration, holes,
breaks, gaps, loose, or rotting boards or timbers.
      (2)   Every exterior surface that has had a surface finish such as paint
applied must be maintained to avoid noticeable deterioration of the finish. No
wall or other exterior surface may have peeling, cracked, chipped, or otherwise
deteriorated surface finish on more than 20% of:
         (a)   Any one wall or other flat surface; or
         (b)   All door and window moldings, eaves, gutters, and similar
projections on any one side or surface.
      (3)   No glass, including windows and exterior light fixtures, may be
broken or cracked, and no screens may be torn or separated from moldings.
      (4)   Exterior doors and shutters must be hung properly and have an
operable mechanism to keep them securely shut or in place.
      (5)   Cornices, moldings, lintels, sills, bay, or dormer windows and
similar projections must be kept in good repair and free from cracks and
defects that make them hazardous or unsightly.
      (6)   Roof surfaces must be tight and have no defects that admit water.
All roof drainage systems must be secured and hung properly.
      (7)   Chimneys, antennae, air vents, and other similar projections must
be structurally sound and in good repair. These projections must be secured
properly, where applicable, to an exterior wall or exterior roof.
      (8)   Foundations must be structurally sound and in good repair.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.22 DUTIES OF CITY OFFICERS.
   For purposes of §§
91.22 and
91.23, the Police Department, or Sheriff or person designated by the City
Council under §
10.20, if the city has at the time no Police Department, may enforce the
provisions relating to nuisances. Any peace officer or designated person shall
have the power to inspect private premises and take all reasonable precautions
to prevent the commission and maintenance of public nuisances. Except in
emergency situations of imminent danger to human life and safety, no police
officer or designated person shall enter private property for the purpose of
inspecting or preventing public nuisances without the permission of the owner,
resident, or other person in control of the property, unless the officer or
person designated has obtained a warrant or order from a court of competent
jurisdiction authorizing the entry, as provided in §
10.20.
§ 91.23 ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Procedure. Whenever a peace officer or designated person determines
that a public nuisance is being maintained or exists on the premises in the
city, the officer or person designated may notify in writing the owner of
record or occupant of the premises of such fact and order that the nuisance be
terminated or abated. The notice of violation shall specify the steps to be
taken to abate the nuisance and the time within which the nuisance is to be
abated. If the notice of violation is not complied with within the time
specified, the officer or designated person shall report that fact forthwith to
the City Council. Thereafter, the City Council may, after notice to the owner
or occupant and an opportunity to be heard, determine that the condition
identified in the notice of violation is a nuisance and further order that if
the nuisance is not abated within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
city may seek injunctive relief by serving a copy of the City Council order and
notice of motion for summary enforcement or obtain an administrative search and
seizure warrant and abate the nuisance.
   (B)   Notice. Written notice of violation; notice of the time, date, place,
and subject of any hearing before the City Council; notice of City Council
order; and notice of motion for summary enforcement hearing shall be given as
set forth in this section.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Written notice of violation shall be served by
a peace officer or designated person on the owner of record or occupant of the
premises either in person or by certified or registered mail. If the premises
is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the owner of record or
occupant refuses to accept notice of violation, notice of violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises.
      (2)   Notice of City Council hearing. Written notice of any City Council
hearing to determine or abate a nuisance shall be served on the owner of record
and occupant of the premises either in person or by certified or registered
mail. If the premises is not occupied, the owner of record is unknown, or the
owner of record or occupant refuses to accept notice of the City Council
hearing, notice of City Council hearing shall be served by posting it on the
premises.
      (3)   Notice of City Council order. Except for those cases determined by
the city to require summary enforcement, written notice of any City Council
order shall be made as provided in M.S. § 463.17 (Hazardous and Substandard
Building Act), as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Notice of motion for summary enforcement. Written notice of any
motion for summary enforcement shall be made as provided for in M.S. § 463.17
(Hazardous and Substandard Building Act), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   Emergency procedure; summary enforcement. In cases of emergency, where
delay in abatement required to complete the notice and procedure requirements
set forth in divisions (A) and (B) above will permit a continuing nuisance to
unreasonably endanger public health safety or welfare, the City Council may
order summary enforcement and abate the nuisance. To proceed with summary
enforcement, the officer or designated person shall determine that a public
nuisance exists or is being maintained on premises in the city and that delay
in abatement of the nuisance will unreasonably endanger public health, safety,
or welfare. The officer or designated person shall notify in writing the
occupant or owner of the premises of the nature of the nuisance, whether public
health, safety, or welfare will be unreasonably endangered by delay in
abatement required to complete the procedure set forth in division (A) above
and may order that the nuisance be immediately terminated or abated. If the
nuisance is not immediately terminated or abated, the City Council may order
summary enforcement and abate the nuisance.
   (D)   Immediate abatement. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city,
without notice or other process, from immediately abating any condition which
poses an imminent and serious hazard to human life or safety.
   (E)   Unlawful parties or gatherings. When law enforcement determines that a
gathering is creating such a noise disturbance as prohibited under division (D)
above, the officer may order all persons present, other than the owner or
tenant of the premises where the disturbance is occurring, to disburse
immediately. No person shall refuse to leave after being ordered to do so by
law enforcement. Every owner or tenant of such premises who has knowledge of
the disturbance shall make every reasonable effort to see that the disturbance
is stopped.
   (F)   Judicial remedy. Nothing in this section shall prevent the city from
seeking a judicial remedy when no other adequate administrative remedy exists.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 RECOVERY OF COST.
   (A)   Personal liability. The owner of premises on which a nuisance has been
abated by the city or a person who has caused a public nuisance on a property
not owned by that person shall be personally liable for the cost to the city of
the abatement, including administrative costs. As soon as the work has been
completed and the cost determined, the City Clerk-Treasurer or other official
shall prepare a bill for the cost and mail it to the owner. Thereupon the
amount shall be immediately due and payable at the office of the City Clerk-
Treasurer.
   (B)   Assessment. After notice and hearing as provided in M.S. § 429.061, as
it may be amended from time to time, if the nuisance is a public health or
safety hazard on private property, the accumulation of snow and ice on public
sidewalks, the growth of weeds on private property or outside the traveled
portion of streets, or unsound or insect-infected trees, the City Clerk-
Treasurer shall, on or before September 1 next following abatement of the
nuisance, list the total unpaid charges along with all other charges as well as
other charges for current services to be assessed under M.S. § 429.101, as it
may be amended from time to time, against each separate lot or parcel to which
the charges are attributable. The City Council may then spread the charges
against the property under that statute and other pertinent statutes for
certification to the County Auditor and collection along with current taxes the
following year or in annual installments, not exceeding ten, as the City
Council may determine in each case.
Penalty, see §
91.99
WEEDS
§ 91.35 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be cited as the “Weed Ordinance”.
§ 91.36 JURISDICTION.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any state statute or regulation or
county ordinance presently in effect, subsequently added, amended, or repealed.
§ 91.37 DEFINITIONS; EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DESTRUCTION ORDER. The notice served by the City Council or designated
city official, in cases of appeal, on the property owner of the ordinance
violation that shall conform to M.S. § 18.83, Subd. 2, as it may be amended
from time to time.
      MEADOW VEGETATION. Grasses and flowering broad-leaf plants that are
native to, or adapted to, the state, and that are commonly found in meadow and
prairie plant communities, except weeds as defined herein.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The person occupying the property, the holder of legal
title or a person having control over the property of another, such as a right-
of-way, easement, license, or lease.
      WEEDS, GRASSES, and RANK VEGETATION. Includes, but is not limited to, the
following:
         (a)   Noxious weeds and rank vegetation shall include, but not be
limited to: alum (allium), Buckthorn, Bur Cucumber, Canada Thistle, Corncockle,
Cressleaf Groundsel, Curly Dock, Dodder, Field Bindweed, French Weed, Hairy
Whitetop, Hedge Bindweed, Hoary Cress, Horsenettle, Johnsongrass, Leafy Spurge,
Mile-A-Minute Weed, Musk Thistle, Oxeye Daisy, Perennial Sowthistle, Poison
Hemlock, Purple Loosestrife, Quackgrass, Russian Knapweed, Russian Thistle,
Serrated Tussock, Shatter Cane, Sorghum, Wild Carrot, Wild Garlic, Wild
Mustard, Wild Onion, and Wild Parsnip;
         (b)   Grapevines when growing in groups of 100 or more and not pruned,
sprayed, cultivated, or otherwise maintained for two consecutive years;
         (c)   Bushes of the species of tall, common, or European barberry,
further known as berberis vulgaris or its horticultural varieties;
         (d)   Any weeds, grass, or plants, other than trees, bushes, flowers,
or other ornamental plants, growing to a height exceeding 12 inches;
         (e)   Rank vegetation includes the uncontrolled, uncultivated growth
of annuals and perennial plants;
         (f)   The term WEEDS does not include shrubs, trees, cultivated
plants, or crops; and
         (g)   Any other weed designated by M.S. § 18.77, Subd. 8, as it may be
amended from time to time, as noxious.
   (B)   In no event shall cultivated plants or crops include plants which have
been defined by state statute or administrative rule as being noxious or
detrimental plants.
§ 91.38 OWNERS RESPONSIBLE FOR TRIMMING, REMOVAL, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   All property owners shall be responsible for the removal, cutting, or
disposal and elimination of weeds, grasses, and rank vegetation or other
uncontrolled plant growth on their property, which at the time of notice, is in
excess of 12 inches in height.
   (B)   These provisions shall not apply to an area established with meadow
vegetation if:
      (1)   The prior vegetation is eliminated and the meadow vegetation is
planted through transplanting or seed by human or mechanical means; and
      (2)   A sign is posted on the property in a location likely to be seen by
the public, advising that a meadow or prairie is being established. This sign
must be no smaller than ten inches square, no larger than one square foot, and
no higher than three feet tall.
   (C)   Exemptions. Native landscaping is authorized as per M.S. § 412.295, as
it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. O-24-38, passed 12-9-2024) Penalty, see  
91.99
§ 91.39 FILING COMPLAINT.
   Any person, including the city, who believes there is property located
within the corporate limits of the city which has growing plant matter in
violation of this subchapter shall make a written complaint signed, dated, and
filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer. If the city makes the complaint, an
employee, officer, or City Council member of the city shall file the complaint
in all respects as set out above.
§ 91.40 NOTICE OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upon receiving notice of the probable existence of weeds in violation
of this subchapter, a person designated by the City Council shall make an
inspection and prepare a written report to the City Council regarding the
condition. The City Council, upon concluding that there is a probable belief
that this subchapter has been violated, shall forward written notification in
the form of a “Destruction Order” to the property owner or the person occupying
the property as that information is contained within the records of the City
Clerk-Treasurer or any other city agency. The notice shall be served in writing
by certified mail. The notice shall provide that within seven regular business
days after the receipt of the notice that the designated violation shall be
removed by the property owner or person occupying the property.
   (B)   (1)   All notices are to be in writing and all filings are to be with
the City Clerk-Treasurer.
      (2)   Certified mailing to the City Clerk-Treasurer or others is deemed
filed on the date of posting to the United States Postal Service.
§ 91.41 APPEALS.
   (A)   The property owner may appeal by filing written notice of objections
with the City Council within 48 hours of the notice, excluding weekends and
holidays, if the property owner contests the finding of the City Council. It is
the property owner’s responsibility to demonstrate that the matter in question
is shrubs, trees, cultivated plants, or crops or is not otherwise in violation
of this subchapter, and should not be subject to destruction under the
subchapter.
   (B)   An appeal by the property owner shall be brought before the City
Council and shall be decided by a majority vote of the City Council members in
attendance and being at a regularly scheduled or special meeting of the City
Council.
§ 91.42 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   In the event that the property owner shall fail to comply with the
“Destruction Order” within seven regular business days and has not filed a
notice within 48 hours to the City Clerk-Treasurer of an intent to appeal, the
City Council may employ the services of city employees or outside contractors
and remove the weeds to conform to this subchapter by all lawful means. No
person shall enter the property to abate the nuisance, except with the
permission of the owner, resident, or other person in control of the property
or has obtained a warrant issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
§ 91.43 LIABILITY.
   (A)   The property owner is liable for all costs of removal, cutting, or
destruction of weeds as defined by this subchapter.
   (B)   The property owner is responsible for all collection costs associated
with weed destruction, including, but not limited to, court costs, attorney’s
fees and interest on any unpaid amounts incurred by the city. If the city uses
municipal employees, it shall set and assign an appropriate per hour rate for
employees, equipment, supplies and chemicals which may be used.
   (C)   All sums payable by the property owner are to be paid to the City
Clerk-Treasurer and to be deposited in a general fund as compensation for
expenses and costs incurred by the city.
   (D)   All sums payable by the property owner may be collected as a special
assessment as provided by M.S. § 429.101, as it may be amended from time to
time.
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.55 RULES AND LAWS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 88, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation, permits,
and all other matters pertaining to open burning are hereby adopted by
reference and are made a part of this chapter as if set out in full. It is the
intention of the City Council that all future amendments of M.S. Ch. 88, are
hereby adopted by reference as if they had been in existence at the time this
chapter was adopted.
§ 91.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE CHIEF, FIRE MARSHAL, and ASSISTANT FIRE MARSHALS. The Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals of the Fire Department which provides fire
protection services to the city.
   OPEN BURNING. The burning of any matter if the resultant combustion products
are emitted directly to the atmosphere without passing through a stack, duct or
chimney, except a RECREATIONAL FIRE as defined herein. Mobile cooking devices
such as manufactured hibachis, charcoal grills, wood smokers, and propane or
natural gas devices are not defined as OPEN BURNING.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A fire set with approved starter fuel no more than three
feet in height, contained within the border of a “recreational fire site” using
dry, clean wood; producing little detectable smoke, odor or soot beyond the
property line; conducted with an adult tending the fire at all times; for
recreational, ceremonial, food preparation for social purposes; extinguished
completely before quitting the occasion; and respecting weather conditions,
neighbors, burning bans, and air quality so that nuisance, health or safety
hazards will not be created. No more than one recreational fire is allowed on
any property at one time.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE SITE. An area of no more than a three foot diameter circle
(measured from the inside of the fire ring or border); completely surrounded by
non-combustible and non-smoke or odor producing material, either of natural
rock, cement, brick, tile, or blocks or ferrous metal only and which area is
depressed below ground, on the ground, or on a raised bed. Included are
permanent outdoor wood burning fireplaces. Burning barrels are not a RECREATION
FIRE SITE as defined herein. RECREATIONAL FIRE SITES shall not be located
closer than 25 feet to any structure or combustible material.
   RUNNING FIRE. An attended fire allowed to spread through surface vegetative
matter under controlled conditions for the purpose of vegetative management,
forest management, game habitat management, or agricultural improvement.
   STARTER FUELS. Dry, untreated, unpainted, kindling, branches, cardboard, or
charcoal fire starter. Paraffin candles and alcohols are permitted as STARTER
FUELS and as aids to ignition only. Propane gas torches or other clean gas
burning devices causing minimal pollution must be used to start an open burn.
   VEGETATIVE MATERIALS. Dry leaves, dry grass clippings, twigs, branches, tree
limbs, untreated or unpainted wood that contains no glues or resins, and other
similar materials. Paper and cardboard are not considered vegetative materials.
   WOOD. Dry, clean fuel only such as twigs, branches, limbs, manufactured
fireplace logs, charcoal, cord wood, or untreated dimensional lumber. WOOD does
not include wood that is green with leaves or needles, rotten, wet, oil soaked
or treated with paint, glue, or preservatives. Clean pallets may be used for
recreational fires when cut into three foot lengths.
§ 91.57 PROHIBITED MATERIALS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct, cause, or permit open burning of oils,
petroleum fuels, rubber, plastics, chemically treated materials, or other
materials which produce excessive or noxious smoke such as, but not limited to:
tires, railroad ties, treated, painted or glued wood composite shingles, tar
paper, insulation, composition board, sheet rock, wiring, paint, or paint
fillers.
   (B)   No person shall conduct, cause, or permit open burning of: hazardous
waste or materials from salvage operations; solid waste generated from an
industrial or manufacturing process; materials from a service or commercial
establishment; or building material generated from demolition of commercial or
institutional structures.
   (C)   No person shall conduct, cause, or permit open burning of discarded
material resulting from the handling, processing, storage, preparation,
serving, or consumption of food.
   (D)   No person shall conduct, cause, or permit open burning of any leaves
or grass clippings.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.58 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall start or allow any open burning on any property in the city
without first having obtained an open burn permit, except that a permit is not
required for any fire which is a recreational fire as defined in §
91.56.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.59 PURPOSES ALLOWED FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Open burn permits may be issued only for the following purposes:
      (1)   Elimination of fire or health hazard that cannot be abated by other
practical means;
      (2)   Ground thawing for utility repair and construction;
      (3)   Disposal of vegetative matter for managing forest, prairie, or
wildlife habitat, and in the development and maintenance of land and rights-of-
way where chipping, composting, landspreading, or other alternative methods are
not practical;
      (4)   Disposal of diseased trees generated on-site, diseased, or infected
nursery stock, diseased bee hives;
      (5)   Disposal of unpainted, untreated, non-glued lumber, and wood shakes
generated from construction, where recycling, reuse, removal, or other
alternative disposal methods are not practical; and
      (6)   Running fires.
   (B)   Fire training permits can only issued by the Minnesota Department of
Natural Resources.
   (C)   Permits for the operation of permanent tree and brush burning sites
may only be issued by the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.60 PERMIT APPLICATION FOR OPEN BURNING; PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Open burning permits shall be obtained by making application on a form
prescribed by the Department of Natural Resources (DNR) and adopted by the Fire
Department. The permit application shall be presented to the Fire Chief, Fire
Marshal, and Assistant Fire Marshals for reviewing and processing those
applications.
   (B)   An open burning permit shall require the payment of a fee. Permit fees
shall be in the amount established in the ordinance establishing fees and
charges.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.61 PERMIT PROCESS FOR OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   If the established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit
are not met, the application will be denied.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the completed open burning permit application and
permit fee, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals, if he or
she reasonably believes necessary, may require a preliminary site inspection to
locate the proposed burn site, note special conditions, and set dates and time
of permitted burn and review fire safety considerations.
§ 91.62 PERMIT HOLDER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Prior to starting an open burn, the permit holder shall be responsible
for confirming that no burning ban or air quality alert is in effect. Every
open burn event shall be constantly attended by the permit holder or his or her
competent representative. The open burning site shall have available,
appropriate communication, and fire suppression equipment as set out in the
fire safety plan.
   (B)   The open burn fire shall be completely extinguished before the permit
holder or his or her representative leaves the site. No fire may be allowed to
smolder with no person present. It is the responsibility of the permit holder
to have a valid permit, as required by this subchapter, available for
inspection on the site by the Police Department, Fire Department, MPCA
representative, or DNR forest officer.
   (C)   The permit holder is responsible for compliance and implementation of
all general conditions, special conditions, and the burn event safety plan as
established in the permit issued. The permit holder shall be responsible for
all costs incurred as a result of the burn, including, but not limited to, fire
suppression and administrative fees.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.63 REVOCATION OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   An open burning permit is subject to revocation at the discretion of DNR
forest officer, the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire Marshals.
Reasons for revocation include, but are not limited to, a fire hazard existing
or developing during the course of the burn, any of the conditions of the
permit being violated during the course of the burn, pollution, or nuisance
conditions developing during the course of the burn, or a fire smoldering with
no flame present.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.64 DENIAL OF OPEN BURNING PERMIT.
   If established criteria for the issuance of an open burning permit are not
met during review of the application, it is determined that a practical
alternative method for disposal of the material exists, or a pollution or
nuisance condition would result, or if a burn event safety plan cannot be
drafted to the satisfaction of the Fire Chief, Fire Marshal, or Assistant Fire
Marshals, these officers may deny the application for the open burn permit.
§ 91.65 BURNING BAN OR AIR QUALITY ALERT.
   (A)   The designated fire official is authorized to determine when
conditions make open burning potentially hazardous and declare a burning ban
within the city.
   (B)   No recreational fire or open burn will be permitted when the city or
DNR has officially declared a burning ban due to potential hazardous fire
conditions or when the MPCA has declared an air quality alert.
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.66 EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICES (OUTDOOR WOOD BURNING
STOVES).
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      EXTERNAL SOLID FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICE. A device designed for external
solid fuel combustion so that usable heat is derived for the interior of a
building, and includes solid fuel-fired stoves, solid fuel-fired cooking
stoves, and combination fuel furnaces or boiler which burn solid fuel. SOLID
FUEL-FIRED HEATING DEVICES do not include natural gas-fired fireplace logs or
wood-burning fireplaces or wood stoves in the interior of a dwelling.
      PERSON. An individual, partnership, corporation, company, or other
association.
      STACKS or CHIMNEYS. Any vertical structure incorporated into a building
and enclosing a flue or flues that carry off smoke or exhaust from a solid
fuel-fired heating device, especially, the part of such a structure extending
above a roof.
   (B)   Requirements for operation.
      (1)   Any dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas and soot, or cinders, in
unreasonable quantities, or any use of an external solid fuel-fired heating
device to burn solid fuels other than those solid fuels for which the external
solid fuel-fired heating device was designed, is declared a public nuisance.
      (2)   No person may install, use, or operate an external solid fuel fired
heating device on a lot less than four acres in size.
      (3)   All stacks or chimneys must be so constructed to withstand high
winds or other related elements and in accordance to the specifications of the
manufacturer of the external solid fuel-fired heating device. The stack height
shall be a minimum of 25 feet above ground level, but shall also extend at
least as high as the height of the roofs of residents within 500 feet. All
stacks or chimneys must be of masonry or insulated metal with a minimum six-
inch flue.
      (4)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of 50 feet from all property lines.
      (5)   All external solid fuel-fired heating devices must be setback a
minimum of ten feet from any principal or accessory structure.
   (C)   Fuels.
      (1)   Only fuels designed for burning in an external solid fuel-fired
heating device may be burned. No garbage may be burned in an external solid
fuel-fired heating device.
      (2)   The only fuel permitted to be burned is untreated fuel. Wood may
not be treated, processed, stained, finished, or painted - specifically
prohibited woods include plywood, particle board, and similar products. Other
fuels, such as corn, shall not contain any additives, treatments, or chemicals.
No petroleum products or processed materials of any kind may be burned.
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter, including maintaining a nuisance
after being notified in writing by first class mail of a violation of any
provision of this chapter, shall be a misdemeanor and punished as provided in §
10.99
 
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND SALES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Licenses and Permits
   
110.01   Fees
   
110.02   Requirements of city approval
LICENSES AND PERMITS
§ 110.01 FEES.
   (A)   License fees. Annual license fees shall be paid for the period of
April 1 through March 31 of the following year. The actual fee due is as set
forth in the license fee schedule adopted annually by the City Council. A copy
of said fee schedule is available at City Hall.
   (B)   Permit fees. The actual fee due is as set forth in the permit fee
schedule adopted annually by the City Council. A copy of said fee schedule is
available at City Hall.
   (C)   Planning and zoning fee schedules. The various rates and charges
related to planning and zoning shall be as set forth in the planning and zoning
fee schedule adopted annually by the City Council and as described in §
150.288. A copy of said fee schedule is available at City Hall.
(Ord. O-16-7, passed 4-13-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.02 REQUIREMENTS OF CITY APPROVAL.
   (A)   No city official, board, council, or other city entity may grant a
license, permit, or other form of city approval or authorization to any person
or entity unless:
      (1)   The person has complied with all relevant statutory and ordinance
requirements;
      (2)   The person has paid all fees, charges, taxes, special assessments,
or other debt or obligation owed by the person to the city regarding any other
matter; and
      (3)   The person is in compliance with all ordinance requirements and
previously imposed conditions of approval regarding any other city approval or
authorization that was granted to the person.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, PERSON shall mean an individual or
any entity in which that individual is at least a 20% owner therein.
   (C)   This section shall not apply if the person has provided sufficient
safeguards to assure payment or compliance within a reasonable time or if
enforcement of this section would result in a significant hardship to the
person through no fault of his or her own.
(Ord. O-16-7, passed 4-13-2016)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Window coverings prohibited in saloons
Sale and Consumption
   
111.15   Adoption of state law by reference
   
111.16   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
111.17   Definitions
   
111.18   Nudity on licensed premises prohibited
   
111.19   Consumption in public places
   
111.20   Number of licenses limited
   
111.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
111.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
111.23   License fees; pro rata
   
111.24   Council discretion to grant or deny license
   
111.25   Application for license
   
111.26   Description of license
   
111.27   Transfer of license
   
111.28   Investigation
   
111.29   Hearing and issuance
   
111.30   Restrictions on issuance
   
111.31   Conditions of license
   
111.32   Hours and days of sale
   
111.33   Minor on premises
   
111.34   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
111.35   Suspension and revocation
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 WINDOW COVERINGS PROHIBITED IN SALOONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the corporate limits of the city
that is licensed to sell intoxicating liquors within said city to have the
windows and doors of his, her, or their place of business, between the hours of
11:00 p.m. and 5:00 a.m., and on the Sabbath day, commonly called Sunday,
covered with curtains, blinds, or screens, that during said hours and upon
Sunday, there shall be no obstructions in the windows and doors to prevent from
the outside of the building a full view of the interior of the building
occupied as such a saloon.
(Ord. 8, passed 3-16-1906) Penalty, see §
111.99
SALE AND CONSUMPTION
§ 111.15 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 340A, as they may be amended from time to
time, with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2% malt liquor are hereby adopted by reference and
are made a part of this subchapter as if set out in full. It is the intention
of the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Chapter 340A are hereby
adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at the time
this subchapter is adopted.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 111.16 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this subchapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 111.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. These
definitions are in addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as
it may be amended from time to time.
   APPLICANT. Any person making an application for a license under this
subchapter.
   APPLICATION. A form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be filled in and
completed by the applicant as his or her request for a license, furnished by
the city and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration of the
issuance of a license for a business.
   CHURCH. A building which is principally used as a place where persons of the
same faith regularly assemble for the public worship of God.
   CITY. The City of Jenkins.
   CLUB. Any corporation duly organized under the laws of this state for civic,
fraternal, social, or business purposes, or for intellectual improvement or for
the promotion of sports, or a congressionally chartered veterans organization,
which shall have more than 50 members, and shall, for more than a year, have
owned, hired, or leased a building or space in a building of such extent and
character as may be suitable and adequate for the reasonable and comfortable
accommodation of its members, and whose affairs and management are conducted by
a board of directors, executive committee, or other similar body chosen by the
members at a meeting held for that purpose, none of whose members, officers,
agents, or employees are paid directly or indirectly any compensations by way
of profit for the distribution or sale of beverages to the members of the CLUB,
or to its guests, beyond the amount of such reasonable salary or wages as may
be fixed and voted each year by the members or other governing body.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Jenkins.
   EXCLUSIVE LIQUOR STORE. Shall be defined by M.S. § 340A.412, Subd. 14, as
the same may be amended from time to time.
   FRATERNAL CLUB. A club which serves only members and their guests and which
uses any profits derived from liquor sales principally for sponsoring
activities beneficial to the community and not for the profit of any individual
and which has been in existence for 15 years or more, or to congressionally
chartered veterans organization which has been in existence for five years.
Such club, either of which in order to be eligible, must be incorporated to
come within this definition.
   HOTEL. An establishment, including a motel, having a resident proprietor or
manager, where, in consideration of payment therefor, food and lodging are
regularly furnished to transients, and which contains not less than ten guest
rooms with bedding and other suitable and necessary furnishings in each room,
and which is provided with a suitable lobby, desk, and office for the
registration of its guests at the main entrance and on the ground floor, which
employs an adequate staff to provide suitable and usual service, and which
maintains under the same management and control as the rest of the
establishment and has an integral part thereof a dining room with appropriate
facilities for seating not less than 30 guests at one time, where the general
public is, in consideration of payment therefor, served with meals at tables.
   INTOXICATING LIQUOR and LIQUOR. Ethyl alcohol and distilled, fermented,
spirituous, vinous, and malt beverages containing in excess of 3.2% of alcohol
by weight.
   LICENSE. A document, issued by the city, to an applicant, permitting him or
her to carry on and transact the business stated therein.
   LICENSEE. An applicant who, pursuant to his or her approved application,
holds a valid, current, unexpired license, which has neither been revoked nor
suspended (during the period of such suspension), from the city of carrying on
the business stated therein.
   LICENSE FEE. The money paid to the city pursuant to an application and prior
to issuance of a license to transact and carry on the business stated therein.
   MANUFACTURER. Every person (except an on-sale licensee under this
subchapter) who, by any process of manufacture, fermenting, brewing,
distilling, refining, rectifying, blending, or by the combination of different
materials, prepares or produces liquors, wine, or beer for sale.
   OFF-SALE. The retail sale of beer or liquor in original packages for
consumption off or away from the premises where sold.
   ON-SALE. The retail sale of beer, wine, or liquor by the glass or by the
drink, for consumption on the premises where sold only.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, having appropriate facilities for the serving of
meals, and where, in consideration of payment therefor, meals are regularly
served at tables to the general public, which employs an adequate staff to
provide the usual and suitable service to its guests which shall have seating
facilities for seating not less than 30 guests at one time, and whose gross
receipts are at least 60% attributable to the sale of food from the RESTAURANT.
   THREE-POINT-TWO PERCENT MALT LIQUOR. Hereinafter referred to as BEER, malt
liquor containing not less than 0.5% alcohol by volume or more than 3.2% of
alcohol by weight.
   VIOLATION. Lawlessness; illicitness; breach of law, violation of law,
infraction of the law.
   WHOLESALER. Any person engaged in the business of selling liquor, wine, or
beer to retail dealers.
   WINE. Wine not exceeding 14% alcohol by volume.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 111.18 NUDITY ON LICENSED PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this subchapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conducts, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
subchapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.19 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in a public
park, on any public street, sidewalk, parking lot, or alley, or in any public
place other than on the premises of an establishment licensed under this
subchapter, in a municipal liquor dispensary if one exists in the city, or
where the consumption and display of liquor is lawfully permitted.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES LIMITED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
However, the number of licenses which may be granted under this subchapter is
limited to the number of licenses which were issued as of the effective date of
this subchapter, even if a larger number of licenses may be authorized by law
or election. The Council, in its sound discretion, may provide by ordinance
that a larger number of licenses may be issued, up to the number of licenses
authorized by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time. If a
larger number of licenses in a particular category has been authorized by a
referendum held under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.413, Subd. 3, as it may be
amended from time to time, but not all of them have been issued, the larger
number of licenses is no longer in effect until the Council by ordinance
determines that any or all of the licenses may be issued. The Council is not
required to issue the full number of licenses that it has available.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 111.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on March 31 of each year unless another
date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same date.
Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and display
permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the accompanying city
consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 111.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   (A)   Three-point-two percent malt liquor on-sale licenses, which may be
issued only to restaurants, hotels, clubs, bowling centers, and establishments
used exclusively for the sale of 3.2% malt liquor with the incidental sale of
tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   Three-point-two percent malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2% malt liquor licenses which may be issued only to a
club, charitable, religious, or nonprofit organization.
   (D)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, which may be issued to the
following establishments as defined by M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be amended
from time to time, and this subchapter: hotels, restaurants, bowling centers,
clubs, or congressionally chartered veterans organizations, and exclusive
liquor stores. Club licenses may be issued only with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for club licenses established by the
Council under this subchapter shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S.
§ 340A.404, Subd. 4(b), as it may be amended from time to time. The Council
may, in its sound discretion, authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense
intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any convention, banquet,
conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the premises of a sports,
convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under the provisions of
M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4(a), as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, heretofore being
authorized by voter approval at a general election as provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time, Sunday on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only to a restaurant, as defined in
this subchapter, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of
at least 30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and
which serves liquor only in conjunction with service of food. The maximum fee
for the licenses which shall be established by the Council under provisions of
this subchapter shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504 Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (F)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses, with the approval of
the City Council, which may be issued only in connection with a social event
sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit corporation that
has existed for at least three years. No license shall be for longer than four
consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12 days’ worth of
temporary licenses to any one organization in one calendar year.
   (G)   On-sale wine licenses, with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to: restaurants that have facilities for seating at least 25 guests at
one time and meet the criteria of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may be
amended from time to time, and which meet the definition of restaurant in §
111.17; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The fee for
an on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of this
section shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2% malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt liquor
with content over 3.2% (strong beer) without an additional license.
   (H)   One-day consumption and display permits with the approval of the City
Council to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a social activity in
the city sponsored by the organization.
   (I)   Approval of the issuance of a consumption and display by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. The maximum amount of the additional fee which
may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a consumption and
display permit under the provisions of this section shall not exceed $300, or
the maximum amount permitted by M.S. § 340A.414, Subd. 6, as it may be amended
from time to time. Consumption and display permits shall expire on March 31 of
each year.
   (J)   Approval of the issuance of a 2:00 a.m. closing permit by the
Commissioner of Public Safety. An additional fee may be imposed by the Council
from a current license holder who has been issued a 2:00 a.m. closing permit
under this section
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time by ordinance or resolution
the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is authorized to issue. The license
fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the license and other costs directly
related to the enforcement of the liquor laws and this subchapter. No liquor
license fee shall be increased without providing mailed notice of a hearing on
the proposed increase to all affected licensees at least 30 days before the
hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 111.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OF DENY LICENSE.
   The Council, in its sound discretion, may either grant or deny the
application for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No
applicant has a right to a license under this subchapter.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 111.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this subchapter
shall be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name
of the applicant, the applicant’s age, representations as to the applicant’s
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for a club license shall include the name of the
club, date the club was incorporated, a sworn statement that the club has been
in existence for more than five years, and the number of members. No person
shall make a false statement in an application.
   (B)   Financial responsibility and liability insurance. Prior to the
issuance of any license under this subchapter, the applicant shall demonstrate
proof of financial responsibility as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be
amended from time to time, with regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as
it may be amended from time to time. This proof will be filed with the city and
the Commissioner of Public Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as
proof of financial responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. §
340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which
is required to be licensed by this subchapter without having on file with the
city at all times effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for
revocation of the license.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 DESCRIPTION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
   (B)   At least 30 days before a license issued under this subchapter is to
be renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The
decision whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of
the Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.27 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this subchapter may be transferred without the
approval of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is
deemed to be a transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior
Council approval is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to
transfer a license shall be treated the same as an application for a new
license, and all of the provisions of this code applying to applications for a
license shall apply.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.28 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the city shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant, or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee of $500, which
shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than $500, the unused balance shall be returned to the
applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation. If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation may be required. The
Council may either conduct the investigation itself or contract with the
Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for
this comprehensive background and financial investigation to be paid by the
applicant shall be $500, less any amount paid for the initial investigation if
the investigation is to be conducted within the state, and $10,000, less any
amount paid for the initial investigation if the investigation is required
outside the state. The unused balance of the fee shall be returned to the
applicant whether or not the application is denied. The fee shall be paid in
advance of any investigation, and the amount actually expended on the
investigation shall not be refundable in the event the application is denied.
The results of the comprehensive investigation shall be sent to the
Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale intoxicating
liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 111.29 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council shall investigate all facts set out in the application and
investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background and financial
investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be heard for or
against the granting of the license. After the investigation and hearing, the
Council shall, in its sound discretion, grant or deny the application. No
license shall become effective until the proof of financial security has been
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 111.30 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than one license shall be directly or indirectly issued
within the city to any one person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to the
closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 111.31 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   Within 120 days after employment, every person selling or serving
liquor in an establishment which has an on-sale license shall receive training
regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The training shall be
provided by an organization approved by the Council. Proof of training shall be
provided by the licensee. Proof of this shall be filed with the city at the
time of renewal on the form supplied by the city.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this subchapter and the law
equally with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant, in accordance with §
10.20.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this subchapter is a continuing condition of any license.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor in an on-sale licensed
premise more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2% malt liquor to remain upon any table,
bar, stool, or other place where customers are served more than 30 minutes
after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33 MINOR ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on-sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be employed
as musicians or to perform the duties of a busser or dishwashing services in
places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel, or other multipurpose building
serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2% malt liquor are
sold at retail on-sale.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years may enter a licensed establishment
except to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or
attend social functions.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.35 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Council may either suspend, for a period not to exceed 60
days, or revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to
comply with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this subchapter
relating to liquor, as provided in division (B) below.
      (2)   Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial responsibility, no
suspension or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded
an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act,
M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as they may be amended from time to time. The Council
may act as the hearing body under that act, or it may contract with the Office
of Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   Suspensions and/or revocations shall begin to take effect within 60
days, following imposition of such. The Council shall select the day or days
during which the license will be suspended. The following are the minimum
periods of suspension or revocation which may be imposed by the Council for
violations of the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time, or any rules promulgated under that chapter, as they
may be amended from time to time.
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, or sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2% malt liquor, the license
may be revoked.
      (2)   The license may be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) above that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this subchapter for at least the minimum periods
as follows.
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period: at least
one day’s suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may
be imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any three-year period: at least
three consecutive days’ suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any three-year period: at least
seven consecutive days’ suspension in addition to any criminal or civil
penalties which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any three-year period: the license
may be revoked.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall affect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this subchapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk-Treasurer, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within
ten days. Any suspension under this division (C) shall continue until the
Council determines that the financial responsibility requirements of state law
and this subchapter have again been met.
   (D)   The provisions of this subchapter pertaining to administrative penalty
may be imposed in addition to or in lieu of any suspension or revocation under
this subchapter.
(Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of §
111.18 is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by law, and may be justification
for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or beer license or the
imposition of a civil penalty under the provisions of §§
111.15 through
111.35.
      (2)   Any person violating the provisions of §§
111.15 through
111.35 or M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any
rules promulgated under that chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor or as otherwise
provided by M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time and, upon
conviction, shall be punished as provided by law.
      (3)   The Council may impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of
§§
111.15 through
111.35 , as provided by the minimum schedule of presumptive civil penalties.
These civil penalties shall be in addition to any criminal penalties imposed
under division (B)(2) above or any suspension or revocation imposed under §
111.34. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as they may be amended from time to
time, is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold
a hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any
person who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for
suspension or revocation of the license. The following is the minimum schedule
of presumptive civil penalties in addition to any suspensions which must be
imposed unless the license is revoked:
         (a)   For the first violation within any three-year period: $500;
         (b)   For the second violation within any three-year period: $1,000;
and
         (c)   For the third and subsequent violations within any three-year
period: $2,000 for each violation.
      (4)   The term VIOLATION, as used in this division (B) and in §§
111.15 through
111.35, includes any and all violations of the provisions of §§
111.15 through
111.35, or of M.S. Chapter 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, or any
rules promulgated under that chapter, as they may be amended from time to time.
The number of violations shall be determined on the basis of the history of
violations for the preceding three-year period.
(Ord. 8, passed 3-16-1906; Ord. 70, passed 2-12-2007; Ord. O-24-32, passed 4-
23-2024)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS AND SALES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Reserved
Peddlers and Solicitors
   
112.15   Definitions
   
112.16   Exceptions to definitions
   
112.17   Licensing; exemptions
   
112.18   License ineligibility
   
112.19   License suspension and revocation
   
112.20   License transferability
   
112.21   Registration
   
112.22   Prohibited activities
   
112.23   Exclusion by placard
   
112.24   Effectiveness
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 RESERVED.
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 112.15 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as may otherwise be provided or clearly implied by context, all terms
shall be given their commonly accepted definitions. For the purpose of this
subchapter, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NON-COMMERCIAL DOOR-TO-DOOR ADVOCATE. A person who goes door-to-door for the
primary purpose of disseminating religious, political, social, or other
ideological beliefs. For purposes of this subchapter, the term door-to-door
advocate shall fall under the term SOLICITOR and include door-to-door
canvassing and pamphleteering intended for non-commercial purposes.
   PEDDLER. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of offering for sale, displaying, or exposing for sale, selling or
attempting to sell, and delivering immediately upon sale, the goods, wares,
products, merchandise, or other personal property that the person is carrying
or otherwise transporting. The term PEDDLER shall mean the same as the term
“hawker”.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, group, organization, corporation,
partnership, or similar association.
   REGULAR BUSINESS DAY. Any day during which the city hall is normally open
for the purpose of conducting public business. Holidays defined by state law
shall not be counted as REGULAR BUSINESS DAYS.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house-to-house, door-to-door, business-to-
business, street-to-street, or any other type of place-to-place movement, for
the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods, wares,
products, merchandise, other personal property, or services of which he or she
may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a catalog
or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at a later
time. The absence of samples or catalogs shall not remove a person from the
scope of this provision if the actual purpose of the person’s activity is to
obtain or attempt to obtain orders as discussed above. The term shall mean the
same as the term “canvasser”.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, or empty store front
for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale, selling or attempting to
sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products, merchandise, or other personal
property and who does not remain or intend to remain in any one location for
more than 14 consecutive days.
§ 112.16 EXCEPTIONS TO DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Non-commercial door-to-door advocates. The following are exempt from §
112.15:
      (1)   Nothing within this subchapter shall be interpreted to prohibit or
restrict non-commercial door-to-door advocates. Persons engaging in non-
commercial door-to-door advocacy shall not be required to register as a
solicitor under §
112.21;
      (2)   Any person selling or attempting to sell at wholesale any goods,
wares, products, merchandise, or other personal property to a retail seller of
the items being sold by the wholesaler;
      (3)   Any person who makes initial contacts with other people for the
purpose of establishing or trying to establish a regular customer delivery
route for the delivery of perishable food and dairy products, such as baked
goods or milk;
      (4)   Any person making deliveries of perishable food and dairy products
to the customers on his or her established delivery route;
      (5)   Any person making deliveries of newspapers, newsletters, or other
similar publications on an established customer delivery route, when attempting
to establish a regular delivery route, or when publications are delivered to
the community at large;
      (6)   Any person conducting the type of sale commonly known as garage
sales, rummage sales, or estate sales;
      (7)   Any person participating in an organized multi-person bazaar or
flea market;
      (8)   Any person conducting an auction as a properly licensed auctioneer;
and
      (9)   Any officer of the court conducting a court-ordered sale.
   (B)   Exemptions. Exemption from these definitions shall not, for the scope
of this subchapter, excuse any person from complying with any other applicable
statutory provision or requirement provided by another city ordinance.
§ 112.17 LICENSING; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   County license required. No person shall conduct business as a
peddler, solicitor, or transient merchant within the city limits without first
having obtained the appropriate license from the county as required by M.S. Ch.
329, as it may be amended from time to time, if the county issues a license for
the
activity.
   (B)   City license required. Pursuant to M.S. § 437.02, as it may be amended
from time to time, except as otherwise provided for by this chapter, no person
shall conduct business as either a peddler or a transient merchant without
first having obtained a license from the city. Solicitors need not be licensed,
but are still required to register pursuant to §
112.21.
   (C)   Application. Application for a city license to conduct business as a
peddler or transient merchant shall be made at least 14 regular business days
before the applicant desires to begin conducting business operations in the
city. Application for a license shall be made on a form approved by the City
Council and available from the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer. All
applications shall be signed by the applicant. All applications shall include
the following information:
      (1)   Applicant’s full legal name;
      (2)   All other names under which the applicant conducts business or to
which applicant officially answers;
      (3)   A physical description of the applicant (hair color, eye color,
height, weight, distinguishing marks and features, and the like);
      (4)   Full address of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (5)   Telephone number of applicant’s permanent residence;
      (6)   Full legal name of any and all business operations owned, managed,
or operated by applicant, or for which the applicant is an employee or agent;
      (7)   Full address of applicant’s regular place of business (if any);
      (8)   Any and all business related telephone numbers of the applicant,
including cellular phones and facsimile (fax) machines;
      (9)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (10)   Whether the applicant is applying for an annual or daily license;
      (11)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business,
and if the applicant is applying for a daily license, the number of days he or
she will be conducting business in the city, with a maximum 14 consecutive
days;
      (12)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant
can be reached while conducting business within the city, including the
location where a transient merchant intends to set up business;
      (13)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last five years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statute or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (14)   A list of the three most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (15)   Proof of any required county license;
      (16)   Written permission of the property owner or the property owner’s
agent for any property to be used by a transient merchant;
      (17)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to be
provided;
      (18)   All additional information deemed necessary by the City Council;
      (19)   The applicant’s driver's license number or other acceptable form
of identification; and
      (20)   The license plate number, registration information, and vehicle
identification number (VIN) for any vehicle to be used in conjunction with the
licensed business, and a physical description of the vehicle.
   (D)   Fee. All applications for a license under this chapter shall be
accompanied by the fee established in the ordinance establishing fees and
charges.
   (E)   Procedure. Upon receipt of the completed application and payment of
the license fee, the City Clerk-Treasurer, within two regular business days,
must determine if the application is complete. An application is determined to
be complete only if all required information is provided. If the City Clerk-
Treasurer determines that the application is incomplete, the City Clerk-
Treasurer must inform the applicant of the required necessary information that
is missing. If the application is complete, the City Clerk-Treasurer must order
any investigation, including background checks, necessary to verify the
information provided with the application. Within ten regular business days of
receiving a complete application, the City Clerk-Treasurer must issue the
license unless there exist grounds for denying the license under §
112.18, in which case the City Clerk-Treasurer must deny the license
application. If the City Clerk-Treasurer denies the license application, the
applicant must be notified in writing of the decision, the reason for denial,
and of the applicant’s right to appeal the denial by requesting, within 20 days
of receiving notice of rejection, a public hearing before the City Council. The
City Council shall hear the appeal within 20 days of the date of the request
for a public hearing. The decision of the City Council following the public
hearing can be appealed by petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals for a
writ of certiorari.
   (F)   Duration. An annual license granted under this chapter shall be valid
for one calendar year from the date of issue. All other licenses granted to
peddlers and transient merchants under this chapter shall be valid only during
the time period indicated on the license.
   (G)   License exemptions.
      (1)   No license shall be required for any person to sell or attempt to
sell, or to take or attempt to take orders for, any product grown, produced,
cultivated, or raised on any farm.
      (2)   No license shall be required of any person going from house-to-
house, door-to-door, business-to-business, street-to-street, or other type of
place-to-place movement when the activity is for the purpose of exercising that
person’s state or federal Constitutional rights such as the freedom of speech,
press, religion and the like, except that this exemption may be lost if the
person’s exercise of Constitutional rights is merely incidental to a commercial
activity.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.18 LICENSE INELIGIBILITY.
   The following shall be grounds for denying a license under this chapter:
   (A)   The failure of the applicant to obtain and show proof of having
obtained any required county license;
   (B)   The failure of the applicant to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as a part of the application, or the failure
to sign the application, or the failure to pay the required fee at the time of
application;
   (C)   The conviction of the applicant within the past five years from the
date of application for any violation of any federal or state statute or
regulation, or of any local ordinance, which adversely reflects on the person’s
ability to conduct the business for which the license is being sought in a
professional, honest, and legal manner. Those violations shall include but not
be limited to burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, unlawful business
practices, and any form of actual or threatened physical harm against another
person;
   (D)   The revocation within the past five years of any license issued to the
applicant for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor, or
transient merchant; and
   (E)   The applicant is found to have a bad business reputation. Evidence of
a bad business reputation shall include, but not be limited to, the existence
of more than three complaints against the applicant with the Better Business
Bureau, the Office of the Minnesota Attorney General, or other state attorney
general’s office, or other similar business or consumer rights office or
agency, within the preceding 12 months, or three complaints filed against the
applicant within the preceding five years.
§ 112.19 LICENSE SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Generally. Any license issued under this section may be suspended or
revoked at the discretion of the City Council for violation of any of the
following:
      (1)   Subsequent knowledge by the city of fraud, misrepresentation, or
incorrect statements provided by the applicant on the application form;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statements made during the
course of the licensed activity;
      (3)   Subsequent conviction of any offense for which granting of a
license could have been denied under §
112.18;
      (4)   Engaging in prohibited activity as provided under §
112.22; or
      (5)   Violation of any other provision of this chapter.
   (B)   Multiple persons under one license. The suspension or revocation of
any license issued for the purpose of authorizing multiple persons to conduct
business as peddlers or transient merchants on behalf of the licensee shall
serve as a suspension or revocation of each authorized person’s authority to
conduct business as a peddler or transient merchant on behalf of the licensee
whose license is suspended or revoked.
   (C)   Notice. Prior to revoking or suspending any license issued under this
chapter, the city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the
alleged violations and inform the licensee of his or her right to a hearing on
the alleged violation. Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the
permanent residential address listed on the license application, or if no
residential address is listed, to the business address provided on the license
application.
   (D)   Public hearing. Upon receiving the notice provided in division (C)
above, the licensee shall have the right to request a public hearing. If no
request for a hearing is received by the City Clerk-Treasurer within ten
regular business days following the service of the notice, the city may proceed
with the suspension or revocation. For the purpose of mailed notices, service
shall be considered complete as of the date the notice is placed in the mail.
If a public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall
be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request. Within three regular
business days of the hearing, the City Council shall notify the licensee of its
decision.
   (E)   Emergency. If, in the discretion of the City Council, imminent harm to
the health or safety of the public may occur because of the actions of a
peddler or transient merchant licensed under this subchapter, the City Council
may immediately suspend the person’s license and provide notice of the right to
hold a subsequent public hearing as prescribed in division (C) above.
   (F)   Appeals. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
section shall have the right to appeal that decision in court.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.20 LICENSE TRANSFERABILITY.
   No license issued under this subchapter shall be transferred to any person
other than the person to whom the license was issued.
Penalty, see § 1
112.99
§ 112.21 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   All solicitors, and any person exempt from the licensing requirements
of this chapter under §
112.17, shall be required to register with the city prior to engaging in those
activities. Registration shall be made on the same form required for a license
application, but no fee shall be required. Immediately upon completion of the
registration form, the City Clerk-Treasurer shall issue to the registrant a
certificate of registration as proof of the registration. Certificates of
registration shall be non-transferrable.
   (B)   Individuals that will be engaging in non-commercial door-to-door
advocacy shall not be required to register.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.22 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door
advocate, or other person engaged in other similar activities shall conduct
business in any of the following manner:
   (A)   Calling attention to his or her business or items to be sold by means
of blowing any horn or whistle, ringing any bell, crying out, or by any other
noise, so as to be unreasonably audible within an enclosed structure;
   (B)   Obstructing the free flow of either vehicular or pedestrian traffic on
any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public right-of-way;
   (C)   Conducting business in a way as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of any individual or the general public;
   (D)   Conducting business before 7:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.;
   (E)   Failing to provide proof of license or registration, and
identification, when requested; or using the license or registration of another
person;
   (F)   Making any false or misleading statements about the product or service
being sold, including untrue statements of endorsement. No peddler, solicitor,
or transient merchant shall claim to have the endorsement of the city solely
based on the city having issued a license or certificate of registration to
that person; or
   (G)   Remaining on the property of another when requested to leave, or to
otherwise conducting business in a manner a reasonable person would find
obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.23 EXCLUSION BY PLACARD.
   (A)   Unless specifically invited by the property owner or tenant, no
peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate,
or other person engaged in other similar activities shall enter onto the
property of another for the purpose of conducting business as a peddler,
solicitor, transient merchant, non-commercial door-to-door advocate, or similar
activity when the property is marked with a sign or placard:
      (1)   At least four inches long;
      (2)   At least four inches wide;
      (3)   With print of at least 48 point in size; and
      (4)   Stating “No Peddlers, Solicitors, or Transient Merchants”,
“Peddlers, Solicitors, and Transient Merchants Prohibited”, or other comparable
statement.
   (B)   No person other than the property owner or tenant shall remove,
deface, or otherwise tamper with any sign or placard under this section.
Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.24 EFFECTIVENESS.
   The provisions of §§
112.15,
112.16,
112.22 and
112.23 shall automatically apply upon adoption of this chapter. Sections
112.17 through
112.21 shall not be effective until the adoption of a City Council resolution
or ordinance authorizing the licensing of persons covered by those sections.
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Violation of §
112.02 shall be a penal offense, punishable by a fine not exceeding $100, or by
imprisonment in the City or County Jail for a period of time not exceeding 90
days.
(Ord. 16, passed 6-3-1916; Ord. 22, passed 10-16-1922; Ord. O-24-32, passed 4-
23-2024)
 
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Social Host Liability
   
130.01   Purpose and findings
   
130.02   Authority
   
130.03   Definitions
   
130.04   Prohibited acts
   
130.05   Exceptions
Minors
   
130.20   Curfew
SOCIAL HOST LIABILITY
§ 130.01 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   The City Council intends to discourage underage possession and
consumption of alcohol, even if done within the confines of a private
residence, and intends to hold persons criminally responsible who host events
or gatherings where persons under 21 years of age possess or consume alcohol,
regardless of whether the person hosting the event or gathering supplied the
alcohol.
   (B)   The City Council finds that:
      (1)   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where
alcohol is possessed or consumed by persons under the age of 21 are harmful to
those persons and constitute a potential threat to public health requiring
prevention or abatement;
      (2)   Prohibiting underage consumption acts to protect underage persons,
as well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol consumption,
such as alcohol overdose or alcohol-related traffic collisions;
      (3)   Alcohol is an addictive drug which, if used irresponsibly, could
have drastic effects on those who use it as well as those who are affected by
the actions of an irresponsible user;
      (4)   Often, events or gatherings involving underage possession and
consumption occur outside the presence of parents. However, there are times
when the parent(s) is/are present and condone the activity, and in some
circumstances provide the alcohol;
      (5)   Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to an underage person is a
crime, it is difficult to prove, and an ordinance is necessary to help further
combat underage consumption; and
      (6)   A deterrent effect will be created by holding a person criminally
responsible for hosting an event or gathering where underage possession or
consumption occurs.
(Ord. O-16-5, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 130.02 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 145A.05, Subd. 1, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. O-16-5, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 130.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of wine,
whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits, including dilutions
and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process produced.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every liquid
or solid containing alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, or beer, and which contains
0.5% or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for beverage purposes either
alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other substances.
   EVENT or GATHERING. Any group of three or more persons who have assembled or
gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
   HOST. To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise, control, or
permit a gathering or event.
   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
      (1)   As a natural, adoptive parent, or step-parent;
      (2)   As a legal guardian; or
      (3)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation, or any
association of one or more individuals.
   RESIDENCE or PREMISES. Any home, yard, farm, field, land, apartment,
condominium, hotel, or hotel room, or other dwelling unit, or a ball or meeting
room, park, or any other place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied
on a temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or
specifically for a party or other social function, and whether owned, leased,
rented, or used with or without permission or compensation.
   UNDERAGE PERSON. Any individual under 21 years of age.
(Ord. O-16-5, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 130.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person(s) to host or knowingly allow an event
or gathering to take place at any residence, premises, or any other private or
public property in the city under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present;
      (2)   The person knows or reasonably should know that an underage person
will or does:
         (a)   Consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage; or
         (b)   Possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the intent to
consume it.
      (3)   The person fails to take reasonable steps to prevent possession or
consumption by the underage person(s).
   (B)   A person is criminally responsible for violating division (B) above if
the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, or conspires with or
otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
   (C)   A person who hosts an event or gathering does not have to be present
at the event or gathering to be criminally responsible.
(Ord. O-16-5, passed 2-8-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents while present in the parent’s household.
   (B)   This subchapter does not apply to legally protect religious
observances.
   (C)   This subchapter does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2%
malt liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores, or bottle club permit holders
who are regulated by M.S. § 340A.503, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time
to time.
   (D)   This subchapter does not apply to situations where underage persons
are lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course
and scope of employment.
(Ord. O-16-5, passed 2-8-2016)
MINORS
§ 130.20 CURFEW.
   (A)   Purpose. The curfew for minors established by this section is
maintained for four primary reasons:
      (1)   To protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during
the curfew hours;
      (2)   To protect minors from improper influences that prevail during the
curfew hours, including involvement with gangs;
      (3)   To protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the
curfew hours; and
      (4)    To help parents control their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY ERRAND. A task that if not completed promptly threatens the
health, safety, or comfort of the minor or a member of the minor’s household.
The term shall include, but shall not be limited to, seeking urgent medical
treatment, seeking urgent assistance from law enforcement or fire department
personnel, and seeking shelter from the elements or urgent assistance from a
utility company due to a natural or human-made calamity.
      OFFICIAL CITY TIME. The time of day as determined by reference to the
master clock used by the Police Department.
      PLACES OF AMUSEMENT, ENTERTAINMENT, OR REFRESHMENT. Those places that
include, but are not limited to, movie theaters, pinball arcades, shopping
malls, nightclubs catering to minors, restaurants, and pool halls.
      PRIMARY CARE or PRIMARY CUSTODY. The person who is responsible for
providing food, clothing, shelter, and other basic necessities to the minor.
The person providing primary care or custody to the minor shall not be another
minor.
      SCHOOL ACTIVITY. An event which has been placed on a school calendar by
public or parochial school authorities as a school sanctioned event.
   (C)   Hours.
      (1)   Minors under the age of 16 years. No minor under the age of 16
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment, or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot,
between the hours of 10:30 p.m. and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
      (2)   Minors ages 16 years to 18 years. No minor of the ages of 16 or 17
years shall be in or upon the public streets, alleys, parks, playgrounds, or
other public grounds, public places, public buildings; nor in or upon places of
amusement, entertainment or refreshment; nor in or upon any vacant lot, between
the hours of 12:00 midnight and 5:00 a.m. the following day, official city
time.
   (D)   Effect on control by adult responsible for minor. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to give a minor the right to stay out until the
curfew hours designated in this section if otherwise directed by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of the
minor; nor shall this section be construed to diminish or impair the control of
the adult person having the primary care or custody of the minor.
   (E)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply in the
following situations:
      (1)   To a minor accompanied by his or her parent or guardian, or other
adult person having the primary care and custody of the minor;
      (2)   To a minor who is upon an emergency errand at the direction of his
or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and
custody of the minor;
      (3)   To a minor who is in any of the places described in this section if
in connection with or as required by an employer engaged in a lawful business,
trade, profession, or occupation; or to a minor traveling directly to or from
the location of the business, trade, profession, or occupation and the minor’s
residence. Minors who fall within the scope of this exception shall carry
written proof of employment and proof of the hours the employer requires the
minor’s presence at work;
      (4)   To a minor who is participating in or traveling directly to or from
an event which has been officially designated as a school activity by public or
parochial school authorities; or who is participating in or traveling directly
to or from an official activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city,
a civic organization, school, religious institution, or similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor and with the permission of the minor’s
parent, guardian, or other adult person having the primary care and custody of
the minor;
      (5)   To a minor who is passing through the city in the course of
interstate travel during the hours of curfew;
      (6) To a minor who is attending or traveling directly to or from an
activity involving the exercise of First Amendment rights of free speech,
freedom of assembly, or freedom of religion;
      (7)   To minors on the sidewalk abutting his or her residence or abutting
the residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor does not complain to the
city's designated law enforcement provider about the minor’s presence; or
      (8)   To a minor who is married or has been married, or is otherwise
legally emancipated.
   (F)   Duties of person legally responsible for minor. No parent, guardian,
or other adult having the primary care or custody of any minor shall permit any
violation of the requirements of this section by the minor.
   (G)   Duties of other persons. No person operating or in charge of any place
of amusement, entertainment, or refreshment shall permit any minor to enter or
remain in his or her place of business during the hours prohibited by this
section unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent, guardian, or
other adult person having primary care or custody of the minor, or unless one
of the exceptions to this section applies.
   (H)   Defense. It shall be a defense to prosecution under this section that
the owner, operator, or employee of an establishment promptly notified the
city’s designated law enforcement provider that a minor was present on the
premises of the establishment during curfew hours and refused to leave.
Penalty, see §
10.99
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   LAND USE AND SUBDIVISIONS
      
151.   BUILDING STANDARDS
CHAPTER 150: LAND USE AND SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Title
   
150.002   Purpose
   
150.003   Relation to Land Use Plan
   
150.004   Rules
   
150.005   Definitions
   
150.006   Application
   
150.007   Environmental documents and concurrent permits
   
150.008   Use of pre-existing lots
   
150.009   Non-conforming structures and uses
   
150.010   Building standards
   
150.011   Other standards
   
150.012   Supremacy
   
150.013   Amendments
Zoning Districts and District Provisions
   
150.025   General provisions
   
150.026   Agricultural District (AG)
   
150.027   Rural District (RR)
   
150.028   Single Family Residential (R-1)
   
150.029   Urban Residential (R-2)
   
150.030   Residential Storage District (RS)
   
150.031   Public District (P)
   
150.032   Central Business District (C-1)
   
150.033   Highway Business District (C-2)
   
150.034   Light Industrial District (I-1)
   
150.035   Shoreland Overlay District (SO)
   
150.036   Floodplain Overlay District (FP)
   
150.037   Overlay districts and district provisions
   
150.038   Land Use Matrix
Signs
   
150.050   Purpose
   
150.051   Required permits
   
150.052   Exempt signs
   
150.053   General Regulations
   
150.054   Onsite signs; Commercial and Industrial Districts
   
150.055   Onsite signs; directory signs
   
150.056   Onsite signs; Residential Districts
   
150.057   Offsite signs
Nuisance Standards
   
150.070   Compliance required
   
150.071   Nuisances declared
   
150.072   Noise
   
150.073   Odor
   
150.074   Glare
   
150.075   Smoke
   
150.076   Dust and other particulate matter
   
150.077   Fumes or gases
   
150.078   Fire hazards
   
150.079   Wastes
   
150.080   Air pollution
   
150.081   Erosion and drainage
   
150.082   Radioactivity or electrical disturbance
   
150.083   Fertilizers, herbicides, and pesticides
   
150.084   Abandoned buildings
Performance Standards
   
150.100   Fences
   
150.101   Property and structure maintenance
   
150.102   Driveway and access management
   
150.103   Storage
   
150.104   Visual standards; screening
   
150.105   Sanitation standards
   
150.106   Keeping of animals
   
150.107   Vegetation removal
   
150.108   Parking
   
150.109   Loading and unloading requirements
   
150.110   Drainage
   
150.111   Grading
   
150.112   Camping
   
150.113   Solar energy systems (SES)
Planned Unit Development (PUD)
   
150.125   General
   
150.126   Suitability
   
150.127   Design criteria for new PUDs
   
150.128   Design criteria for existing PUDs
   
150.129   Computing
   
150.130   Residential PUDs
   
150.131   Commercial PUDs
Telecommunication Towers
   
150.145   Purpose and intent
   
150.146   Permits required
   
150.147   Tower and antenna design requirements
   
150.148   Tower setbacks
   
150.149   Tower location
   
150.150   Co-location requirements
   
150.151   Antennas mounted on existing buildings or towers
   
150.152   Accessory utility buildings
   
150.153   Tower lighting
   
150.154   Abandoned or unused towers
   
150.155   Public safety telecommunications interference
   
150.156   Signs and advertising
   
150.157   Non-conforming towers
   
150.158   Screening and landscaping requirement
   
150.159   Additional submittal requirements
   
150.160   Towers not requiring a permit
Adult Uses
   
150.175   Purpose and intent
   
150.176   Application
   
150.177   Location
   
150.178   Hours of operation
   
150.179   Operation
   
150.180   Consumption or sale of alcoholic beverages
   
150.181   Licenses
   
150.182   Investigation and issuance
   
150.183   License fees
   
150.184   Inspection
   
150.185   Expiration and renewal
   
150.186   Suspension
   
150.187   Revocation
Residential Wind Energy Conversion Systems
   
150.200   Purpose and intent
   
150.201   Permits required
   
150.202   Wind energy conversion system design requirements
   
150.203   Clearance of blade
   
150.204   Setbacks
   
150.205   Automatic overspeed controls
   
150.206   Additional submittal requirements
Extractive Uses
   
150.215   Policy
   
150.216   Gravel extraction permit classifications
   
150.217   Interim use permit required
   
150.218   Applicability
   
150.219   Additional CUP information and review criteria
   
150.220   Required conditions for extractive uses
   
150.221   Performance security
Special Provisions
   
150.235   Manufactured and pre-built housing development
   
150.236   Campgrounds/campsites
   
150.237   Home occupation
   
150.238   Auto salvage yards/junkyards
   
150.239   Landfills
   
150.240   Outdoor wood burning furnaces
   
150.241   Keeping of chickens
   
150.242   Temporary family health care dwellings
Subdivision Standards
   
150.255   Sketch plan
   
150.256   Preliminary plat, preliminary condominium plat, or metes and bounds
subdivision resulting in at least one parcel less than ten acres
   
150.257   Final plat or final condominium plat
   
150.258   Design layout standards; minimum
   
150.259   Survey standards
   
150.260   Street improvement standards
   
150.261   Sanitary provisions standards
   
150.262   Water supply standards
   
150.263   Drainage/grading standards
   
150.264   Dedication to the public; standards
   
150.265   Improvements
Administration
   
150.280   Zoning Administrator
   
150.281   Board of Adjustment
   
150.282   Planning Commission
   
150.283   Conditional use permits
   
150.284   Interim use permits
   
150.285   Variances
   
150.286   Land use permits
   
150.287   Subdivisions
   
150.288   Fees
   
150.289   Financial requirements
   
150.290   Performance security
   
150.291   Required decision making time frames
Enforcement
   
150.305   Liability of city officials
   
150.306   Equitable relief
   
150.307   Notices
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be referred to and cited as the City Land Use, Land Use
and Subdivision Ordinance, except hereinafter, where it shall be cited as the
“Chapter.”
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Authority. This chapter is established pursuant to the authority
granted by Minnesota Statutes, in particular the Municipal Planning Act, M.S.
§§ 462.351 to 461.364, as amended from time to time, the Municipal Shoreland
Act, M.S. Chapter 379, M.S. §§ 462.351 to 462.364, as amended from time to
time, The Land Subdivision and Condominiums Acts, M.S. Chapters 462, 505, 515,
515A, and 515B, as they may be amended from time to time, and policies in M.S.
§§ 105,115, and 116, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   Purpose.
      (1)   Protecting the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and
general welfare;
      (2)   Inaugurating and effectuating the goals of the Comprehensive Plan;
      (3)   Promoting order in development by dividing the area of the city
into zones and regulating therein the location, construction, reconstruction,
alteration, and use of the structures and land;
      (4)   Conserving the natural and scenic beauty and attractiveness of the
city, for the health and welfare of the public;
      (5)   Providing for adequate light, air, and access to property by
regulating the use of the land and buildings, and the bulk of structures, in
relation to surrounding properties;
      (6)   Providing for the administration of the provisions of this chapter
and defining the authority and duties of the Administrator, Planning
Commission, Board of Adjustment, Parks Committee, and City Council under this
chapter;
      (7)   Providing standards and criteria for shorelands to preserve and
enhance the quality of surface waters, conserve the economic and natural
environment values of shorelands, and provide for the wise use of water and
related land resources for the city; and
      (8)   Promoting the economic wellbeing of the community by providing an
attractive, stable, and viable venue for new businesses.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.003 RELATION TO LAND USE PLAN.
   It is the policy of the city that the enforcement, amendment, and
administration of this chapter be accomplished with due consideration of the
recommendations contained in the City Comprehensive Plan as developed and
amended from time to time by the Planning Commission and City Council as well
as any other city land use and development plans enacted from time to time. The
City Council recognizes the Comprehensive Plan as the policy for regulating
land use and development.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.004 RULES.
   The language set forth in the text of this chapter shall be interpreted in
accordance with the following rules of construction.
   (A)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation as well as an individual.
   (B)   The masculine gender includes the feminine gender and the neuter
gender.
   (C)   The singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the
singular.
   (D)   The present tense includes the past and future tenses, and the future
includes the present.
   (E)   The word MAY is permissive. The word SHALL is mandatory. Mandatory
compliance with the chapter shall allow for variances thereto.
   (F)   All horizontal and vertical measured distances shall be expressed to
the nearest tenth of a foot and its metric equivalent, unless specifically
stated otherwise.
   (G)   The words LOT, PLOT, PIECE, and PARCEL of land are interchangeable.
   (H)   The words USED FOR, shall include the phrases ARRANGED FOR, DESIGNED
FOR, INTENDED FOR, IMPROVED FOR, MAINTAINED FOR, and OCCUPIED FOR.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED BUILDING. A building as defined hereinafter, on public or private
property, which no longer serves a practical use and, due to its location or
structural condition, is considered a safety hazard in the opinion of the
Zoning Administrator.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle as defined in M.S. § 169.01, as
amended from time to time, that has remained on public property in an
inoperable condition for more than 48 hours, or has remained on private
property for more than 48 hours without the permission of the owner, or has
remained on private property for more than 30 days and is inoperable or is
unlicensed unless kept in a garage or other storage structure.
   ABUTTING. Making direct contact with or immediately bordering.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use on the same lot that is both incidental
and subordinate to and serving the principal use or structure of facility.
   ADDITION. A physical enlargement of an existing structure.
   ADJACENT. In close proximity to or neighboring, not necessarily abutting.
   ADULT BOOK AND/OR MEDIA STORE. An establishment which has a substantial
portion (25% of utilized floor area) of its stock in trade or stock on display
books, magazines, films, videotapes, or other media which are characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT CABARET. An establishment which provides dancing or other live
entertainment, and if such dancing or other live entertainment is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on the performance, depiction, or description
of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. Any business which offers its patrons services,
entertainment, or the sale of merchandise characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, exposing, describing, discussing, or relating to specified
sexual activities or specified anatomical areas. Specifically included in the
term, but without limitation, are adult book and media stores, adult cabarets,
adult hotels or motels, adult mini-motion picture theaters, adult modeling
studios, adult motion picture arcades, adult motion picture theaters, adult
novelty businesses, and other adult establishments.
   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL. A hotel or motel wherein material is presented which
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER.
      (1)   A theater in an enclosed building, with a capacity for less than 50
persons, used for presenting motion pictures, including, but not limited to,
film and videotape, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (2)   Any business which presents motion pictures, including films and
videotapes, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas, for viewing on the premises,
including, but not limited to, private booths, viewing by means of coin
operated or other mechanical devices, and the viewing of excerpts of motion
pictures offered for sale or rent.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE. Any place wherein coin or token operated or
electronically, electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or
motor picture machines, projectors, or other image producing devices are
maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time,
and where the images so displayed are distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A theater in an enclosed building, with a
capacity of 50 or more persons, used regularly and routinely for presenting
live entertainment or motion pictures, including, but not limited to, film and
videotapes, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which sells, offers to sell, or displays
devices which stimulate human genitals, or devices which are designed for
sexual stimulation.
   ADULT USE. Any of the adult activities and businesses described above
constitute ADULT ORIENTED BUSINESSES which are subject to the regulation of
this chapter.
   AGENT. Any person acting on behalf of a landowner in dealing with activities
under the jurisdiction of the chapter, including, but not limited to, realtors,
contractors, or attorneys.
   AGRICULTURAL USE. The use of land for agricultural purposes, including
farming, dairying, pasturage, agriculture, horticulture, floriculture,
viticulture, and animal and poultry husbandry, and the necessary accessory uses
used for packing, treating, or storing the product, provided, however, that the
operation of any such accessory uses shall be secondary to that of the normal
agricultural activities.
   AIRPORT. Any premises used or intended for use for the landing and taking
off of aircraft, including any structures used or intended for use for aircraft
services.
   ALTERATION. A change or rearrangement in the structural parts or in the
existing facilities, or an enlargement, whether by extending on a side or by
increasing in height, or by moving from one location to another, of a building
or a structure.
   ANIMALS, DOMESTIC. Common household pets, such as dogs and cats, kept for
amusement, companionship, decoration, or interest.
   ANIMALS, WILD OR EXOTIC. Animals, such as wolves, tigers, lions, and snakes,
that are not normally a domestic animal or farm animal and would ordinarily be
confined in a zoo or found in the wild.
   ANIMAL BOARDING FACILITY. An establishment that houses animals, other than
those belonging to the occupant, overnight or over an extended period of time.
   ANIMAL GROOMING ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment principally engaged in
grooming animals in which overnight boarding is prohibited.
   ANIMAL HUSBANDRY. The practice of raising, selective breeding, farming, or
care of common farm animals such as cattle, horses, hogs, sheep, goats,
poultry, and rabbits by humans for advantages.
   ANIMAL UNIT. A unit of measure based on the approximate production of wastes
from 1,000 pounds of live weight of poultry or animals.
 
Livestock: One cow, hog, horse, steer, donkey, llama, or similar animal 1.0
Livestock, small: One goat, sheep, lamb, alpaca, or similar animal      0.3
One rabbit, domestic bird/poultry, or similar animal                    0.05
Chickens   : Please see §
150.241 for all districts
 
   ANTENNA. Any structure or device used for the purpose of collecting or
radiating electromagnetic waves, including, but not limited to, directional
antennas such as panels, microwave dishes, satellite dishes, and omni-
directional antennas such as whip antennas. Dishes under 36 inches are excluded
from the definition of ANTENNA.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms that is designed for, intended for, or
occupied as a residence by a family or individual, and is equipped with
sanitary facilities.
   APPEAL. An application for the review of an order, requirement, decision,
determination, or interpretation of this chapter made by an administrative
officer in the application and/or enforcement of this chapter.
   ARCHITECTURAL PROJECTION. A non-functional or ornamental feature on a
building or other structure that does not extend to or from the ground.
   ARTIST’S STUDIO. A fine arts workshop of a painter, sculptor, potter,
weaver, carver, jeweler, photographer, or other similar art that requires
artistic skill, where the public is received or where the artist is engaging in
retail sales. Not generally utilitarian, related to personal hygiene, or
adornment.
   ATTACHED. Two buildings or structures that combine to form one building or
structure through the use of at least one common wall, not including a
breezeway.
   ATTORNEY. The attorney duly appointed by the Council to represent the city.
   AUTO SALVAGE YARD. A lot or yard where four or more motor vehicles are
stored while parts are removed, where crushing occurs, or where storage pending
crushing may occur.
   AUTO TRIP. Transport in a vehicle that includes both an arrival and a
departure from a location.
   BALCONY. Same as a DECK.
   BANNER. A temporary sign constructed out of paper, plastic, cloth,
cardboard, or some other non-permanent material and affixed to poles or the
side of a building in a manner than can be easily moved, modified, or
rearranged.
   BATHROOM. A room containing a shower or bathtub or a sink and toilet.
   BASEMENT. The space below the first story of a structure which is greater
than four feet in height.
   BED AND BREAKFAST DWELLING. A dwelling, single family, licensed through the
County Public Health Services, where, for compensation, meals and lodging are
provided for three or more unrelated persons, but not to exceed eight persons.
The owner of the parcel must live on the premises.
   BEDROOM. A portion of a dwelling unit intended to be used for sleeping
purposes, which may contain closets and may have access to a bathroom.
   BLUFF.
      (1)   A topographic feature such as a hill, cliff, or embankment having
all of the following characteristics:
         (a)   Part or all of the feature is located in a shoreland area;
         (b)   The slope rises at least 25 feet above the ordinary high water
mark of the water body;
         (c)   The grade of the slope from the toe of the bluff to a point 25
feet above the ordinary high water level averages 30% or greater; and
         (d)   The slope must drain towards the water body.
      (2)   An area with an average slope of less than 18% over a distance for
50 feet or more shall not be considered part of the BLUFF.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A bluff and the land located within 20 feet inland from
the top of the bluff.
   BOAT ACCESS. A ramp, road, or other conveyance on a residential lot which
allows the launching and removal of a boat with a vehicle and trailer.
   BOAT HOUSE. A structure designed and used solely for the storage of boats or
boating equipment.
   BOARDING HOUSE. Same as BED AND BREAKFAST DWELLING.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT. The Board, appointed by the City Council, to hear
appeals from actions of the Zoning Administrator, and variance requests.
   BREEZEWAY. A covered or enclosed walkway that physically connects two or
more buildings or structures. Shall not materially connect the two or more
buildings or structures.
   BREWERY. Manufactures, processes, and warehouses malt liquor for wholesale
distribution in off-sale packages to retail liquor establishments and may
retail malt liquor product for onsite consumption in a taproom or for offsite
consumption as growlers. A brewer may not have an ownership interest in a
BREWERY licensed under M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 6, clause (d), as amended from
time to time.
   BUILDABLE AREA. Any site, lot, parcel, or any portion thereof that does not
contain designated flood plain, wetlands, or areas in excess of 25% slope.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for storage, shelter, or occupancy.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance between the highest adjoining ground
level at the building or ten feet above the lowest ground level, whichever is
lower, and the highest point of a flat roof or average height between the eaves
and the highest ridge of gable, hip, or gambrel roofs, or ten feet below the
peak, whichever is greater.
   BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to a lot line or the ordinary high water
level at the required setback beyond which a structure may not extend.
   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit authorizing an applicant under this code to
undertake construction or other development activity.
   CAMPGROUND. Any area, whether publicly or privately owned, consisting of
designated campsites with appropriate facilities and management services
designed for temporary occupation by tents or recreational vehicles.
   CAMPING. Habitation of a temporary structure.
   CAMPSITE. A parcel within a resort or campground designated for the
occupancy of one family on a periodic basis in a tent or recreational vehicle.
   CEMETERY, UNPLATTED. Any human remains or burials found outside of platted,
recorded, or identified cemeteries pursuant to M.S. § 307.08, as amended from
time to time.
   CHAIRPERSON. The individual elected by the Planning Commission to chair its
meetings. A vice-chair may also be elected and would serve as CHAIRPERSON when
the elected chairperson was absent.
   CHILD CARE, CENTER. A facility that is maintained, for the whole or part of
the day, for the care of five or more children who are 18 years of age or
younger, and who are not related to the owner, operator, or manager thereof,
whether such facility is operated with or without compensation for such care
and with or without stated educational purposes. The term shall not include any
facility licensed as a foster care home or any facility defined as a CHILD
CARE, FAMILY HOME.
   CHILD CARE, FAMILY HOME. A primary residence where, for the whole or part of
the day, an owner of the residence, licensed as a child care provider, cares
for five or more children who are 18 years of age or younger and who are not
related to the owner, whether such facility is operated with or without
compensation for such care.
   CHURCH. A building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where
persons regularly assemble for religious worship and which building, together
with its accessory buildings and uses, is maintained and controlled by a
religious body organized to sustain public worship and related community
activities.
   CLEAR CUTTING. See VEGETATION REMOVAL, CLEAR CUTTING.
   CITY CLERK-TREASURER. The appointed person responsible for administration of
the city affairs.
   CITY COUNCIL. The duly elected governing body of the city.
   CITY SEWER OR WATER SYSTEM. A system of municipally maintained utilities,
approved by the state, and serving more than one building or property.
   COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental, trade of products, goods, or services.
   COMMERCIAL WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICES. All commercial wireless
telecommunications services, including cellular, personal communications
services, specialized mobilized radio, enhanced specialized mobilized radio,
paging, and similar services that are marketed to the general public.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources.
   COMMUNITY PARK. A park designed to provide recreational opportunities to
serve the entire community.
   CONSERVATION PARCEL. A parcel of land set aside from development in a Rural
Conservation Subdivision.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. Also referred to as COMMUNITY PLAN. A compilation of
policy statements, goals, standards, and maps for guiding the physical, social,
and economic development, both private and public, of the city and its environs
and may include, but is not limited to, the following items: statements of
policies, goals, standards, a land use plan, a community facilities plan, a
transportation plan, and recommendations for plan execution.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A land use or development, as defined by the chapter, that
would not be appropriate without restriction, but may specifically be allowed
without restrictions of conditions as determined by the Planning Commission and
the Council upon a finding that the use or development is an appropriate
CONDITIONAL LAND USE in the land use zone; the use or development, with
conditions, conforms to the Comprehensive Land Use Plan; the use, with
conditions, is compatible with the existing neighborhood; and the use, with
conditions, would not be injurious to the public health, safety, welfare,
morals, order, comfort, convenience, appearance, or prosperity of the city.
   CONTIGUOUS. The sharing of a common border at more than a single point.
Lots, parcels, or boundaries may be considered CONTIGUOUS where separated by
rights-of-way, rivers, or streams.
   CONTROLLED ACCESS LOT. Any lot which is designated for the exclusive use by
non-riparian landowners within a subdivision as a means to gain access to a
lake, river, or stream.
   COUNCIL. The City Council, as established by state law.
   CRAWL SPACE. The space below the first story of a structure not more than
four feet high and not intended for human habitation.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A short local street terminating in a vehicular turnaround.
   DBH. Diameter at breast height. The width of a tree or shrub as measured at
four and one-half feet above the ground surface.
   DECK. An uncovered, unscreened structure or on-grade patio not including on-
grade walks four feet wide or less.
   DOCK. A platform extending waterward from the shoreline intended for ingress
and egress for moored watercraft or to provide access to water for swimming,
fishing, or other water-orientated activities.
   DORMITORY. A building, or portion thereof, providing group sleeping
accommodations in one room, with shared bath and toilet facilities.
   DUPLEX, TRIPLEX, or QUAD. A structure on a single lot having two, three, or
four dwelling units respectively being attached by common walls, and each being
equipped with separate sleeping, cooking, eating, living, and sanitation
facilities.
   DWELLING, GUEST QUARTERS. A structure, not for sale or lease, used as a
dwelling unit that may contain sleeping spaces and kitchen and bathroom
facilities in addition to those provided in the primary dwelling on the lot.
Any accessory structure with kitchen or bathroom facilities shall be considered
a DWELLING, GUEST QUARTERS.
   DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY. Two or more dwelling units attached together by any
point, including duplexes, triplexes, townhouses, and multi-level units,
regardless of type of ownership.
   DWELLING, SINGLE FAMILY. A dwelling unit totally separated from any other
dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TOWNHOUSE. A type of multi-family housing consisting of dwelling
units attached by common party walls. Ownership may be defined by plat or
condominium plan.
   DWELLING SITE. A designated location for residential use by one or more
persons using temporary or moveable shelter, including camping and recreational
vehicle sites.
   DWELLING UNIT. A structure or portion of a structure or other shelter
designed as a short or long-term living quarters for one or more persons,
including rental or time share accommodations such as a motel, hotel resort
rooms, and resort cabins.
   DWELLING WIDTH. The smallest horizontal dimension of the major portion of a
dwelling.
   EARTH TONE. A shade of color that, when viewed from a distance, blends with
the colors of the surrounding landscape.
   ENGINEER. The engineer duly appointed by the Council to perform technical
services for the city.
   EVENT CENTER. A premises which is rented out for public or private
activities that are not repeated on a weekly basis, and which are not open to
the public on a daily basis at times other than when an event is scheduled.
   EXTERIOR STORAGE. Storage of goods, materials, equipment, and manufactured
products outside a fully enclosed building.
   EXTRACTIVE USE. The use of land for removal of sand, gravel, rock,
industrial minerals, soil, other non-metallic minerals, or pea not regulated
under M.S. §§ 93.44 through 93.51, as they may be amended from time to time.
   FAMILY. An individual, or two or more persons related by blood, marriage,
adoption, or a relationship legally recognized in the state, or not more than
five unrelated persons maintaining a common household.
   FEEDLOT. A lot or building, or combination of lots and buildings, intended
for the confined feeding, breeding, raising, or holding of animals and
specifically designed as a confinement area in which manure may accumulate, or
where the concentration of animals is such that a vegetative cover cannot be
maintained within the enclosure. Open lots used for the feeding and rearing of
poultry (poultry ranges) shall be considered to be ANIMAL FEEDLOTS. Pastures
shall not be considered ANIMAL FEEDLOTS.
   FEE SCHEDULE. The official schedule of land use related fees and penalties
adopted by the City Council.
   FENCE. Any structure erected for the purpose of enclosing, dividing, or
screening the boundary between parcels of land.
   FILLING. The act of depositing any clean earthen material.
   FINAL FLOOR PLAN. A drawing prepared by a registered architect, registered
engineer, or registered land surveyor depicting the condominium subdivision of
real estate and related information conforming to the requirements of M.S. §§
515A.2 through 515A.2-110, as it may be amended from time to time.
   FINAL CONDOMINIUM PLAT. A drawing prepared by a registered architect,
registered engineer or registered land surveyor depicting the condominium
subdivision of real estate and related information conforming to the
requirements of M.S. §§ 515A.2 through 515A.2-110, as it may be amended from
time to time.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing, in final form, showing a proposed subdivision
containing all information and detail required by state statutes and by this
chapter to be presented to the Planning Commission and the City Council for
approval, and which, if approved, may be duly filed with the County Recorder.
   FISH HOUSE. A structure placed on a lake during the winter for use in
fishing. A structure will only be considered a FISH HOUSE if it is 160 square
feet or less, is moveable, and has a current license.
   FLOODPLAIN. The areas adjoining a water course, intermittent or permanently
flowing, which have been or will be covered by the runoff waters of a storm
with a 1% chance of occurrence any year (100-year storm).
   FLOODWAY. The channel of the water course and those portions of the
adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
regional flood (100-year chance of occurrence).
   FOOTPRINT. The horizontal extent to which a structure covers the ground
plane as represented in a plan view, including cantilevered building elements
but excluding eaves and similar architectural projections of the roof plane.
   FORB. A broad leafed, non-woody plant other than grass, sedge, or rush.
FORBS include native herbs, ephemerals, and wildflowers.
   FOREST LAND CONVERSION. The clear cutting of forested lands to prepare for a
new land use other than the re-establishment of a subsequent forest stand.
   FOUNDATION. A concrete, concrete and concrete block, or treated wood portion
of a structure that supports the bearing loads of the superstructure and
penetrates the ground, providing frost protection. Must meet the provisions of
the Building Code adopted by the state. Concrete pillars may be used as a
FOUNDATION for manufactured homes so long as the installation is done to the
manufacturer’s specifications and skirting is provided around the perimeter to
provide the look of a completely enclosed FOUNDATION.
   FRONTAGE. The uninterrupted front boundary line of a lot, or the length of
such line, that abuts on a street or protected water.
   GARAGE, ATTACHED. A part of the principal structure designed for the storage
of motor vehicles.
   GARAGE, DETACHED. An accessory structure not attached to the principal
structure on the property designed and used for storage.
   GAZEBO. A freestanding accessory structure with no kitchen, sleeping,
sanitary facilities, or pressurized water, intended as weather and insect
protection for such activities as picnicking and lake viewing.
   GRADING. The movement of dirt, by mechanical means, so as to alter the
existing topography of a property.
   GREEN SPACE. Privately owned property permanently dedicated by covenant or
deed restriction to vegetate ground coverage with allowance for use as
recreational facilities, tree coverage, water course, sewage disposal, or
similar uses. Public property permanently dedicated to park, vegetative buffer,
tree coverage, or watercourses.
   GROUP CARE FACILITIES. A facility which provides residential services for
individuals that are handicapped, aged, disabled, or undergoing rehabilitation.
This includes uses such as homes for the physically handicapped, mentally
retarded, chemically dependent, foster children, maternity-shelters, and half-
way houses.
   HOME OCCUPATION. A use of commercial nature conducted by an occupant
entirely within the dwelling or accessory buildings which use is clearly
incidental and secondary to the use of the dwelling for residential purposes
and does not change the residential character thereof.
   HOME OCCUPATION, TYPE I. A home occupation, the commercial nature of which
involves providing a service to a limited number of people who are
predominantly acquaintances. Generates less than ten auto trips per week. No
employees beyond owner. No signage or other advertising done either on or
offsite. Would include businesses that are similar in nature to tutoring or
music lessons performed on an individual basis.
   HOME OCCUPATION, TYPE II. A home occupation, the commercial nature of which
involves providing a service to people or organizations that do not receive the
service at the property from which is it being provided. Generates less than 25
auto trips per week, including deliveries and employees. No more than two
employees, in addition to the owner, working onsite. No signage done either on
or offsite. Would include businesses that are similar in nature to telephone
sales, consulting, or web design.
   HOME OCCUPATION, TYPE III. A home occupation, the commercial nature of which
involves providing a service or product to people or organizations within the
home. Generates less than 60 auto trips per week, including deliveries. No more
than two employees, in addition to the owner working onsite. May include onsite
signage. May include retails sales of items manufactured onsite. Would include
businesses that are similar in nature to chiropractic service, artist studio,
or craft shop.
   HOME OCCUPATION, TYPE IV. A home occupation, the commercial nature of which
involves providing a service or product to people or organizations off site.
Generates less than 60 auto trips per week, including deliveries. All employees
do the majority of their work offsite. May include onsite storage or
warehousing of work related materials. Would include businesses that are
similar in nature to lawn care services and offsite sandblasting services.
   HOTEL. A building containing three or more individual rooms, without
kitchens, used for overnight lodging by the general public on a short-term
basis for a fee, with or without meals, and which has common reservation and
cleaning services, combined utilities, and onsite management and reception
services.
   HOUSE OF WORSHIP. Same as CHURCH.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. The horizontal area of buildings, patios, walks,
driveways, accessory structures, and other surfaces generally impervious to the
penetration of stormwater, including gravel drives and parking.
   INDUSTRIAL USE. The use of land or buildings for the production,
manufacture, warehousing, storage, or transfer of goods, products, commodities,
or other wholesale items.
   INTERIM USE. A temporary use of property until a particular date, until the
occurrence of a particular event, or until zoning regulations no longer permit
it.
   JUNK YARD. An area where used waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, cleared, parked, disassembled, or
handled, including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper,
rags, rubber products, bottles, and used building materials. Storage of
materials in conjunction with the construction of a manufacturing process shall
not be included. Three or more automobiles without current licenses constitute
a JUNK YARD. Such use shall not include putrid wastes such as garbage.
   LAKE CLASSIFICATION. The formal classification provided by the Department of
Natural Resources for each body of public waters within the city.
   LANDFILL. A method of solid waste disposal in which refuse is buried between
layers of dirt.
   LANDSCAPING. Plantings such as trees, grass, shrubs, and decorative timbers,
arbors, rocks, and water displays.
   LICENSED ENGINEER. A person licensed as a professional engineer by the
state.
   LICENSED SURVEYOR. A person licensed as a professional surveyor by the
state.
   LITTER. Waste materials, including, but not limited to, cans, bottles,
plastic, and paper wrappings or containers.
   LIVESTOCK. Domestic animals, such as cattle or horses, raised for home use
or for profit, especially on a farm.
   LOGGING. The sustainable practice of felling and trimming trees and
transporting the logs to a mill.
   LOT. A parcel, piece, or portion of land described by metes and bounds,
registered land survey, auditor’s plat, or subdivision plat and separated from
other parcels or portions of land by said description for purposes of sale,
lease, mortgage, building, or separation.
   LOT AREA. The horizontal area of a lot bounded by the lot lines and the
ordinary high waterline if bounded by water.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on two or more
intersecting streets or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of one
street with the internal angle less than 135 degrees.
   LOT, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts on a public right-of-way, or
if a corner lot, the shortest of the two boundaries. If the lot abuts public
water, the lake side shall be considered the LOT FRONT.
   LOT LINE. The property lines bounding a lot, except that where the
description extends into a public right-of-way, the right-of-way line shall be
considered the LOT LINE.
   LOT, PRE-EXISTING. A lot which is one unit of a subdivision plat heretofore
duly approved and filed or one unit of an auditor’s subdivision, or registered
land survey, or a lot created by metes and bounds that has been recorded in the
office of the County Recorder prior to the effective date of this chapter.
   LOT TIER DEPTH. The lot depth of a normal lot conforming to the shoreland
requirements: General development lake first tier: 200 feet; second and
additional tiers: 267 feet; recreational development lake: 267 feet; natural
environmental lake: 400 feet.
   LOT TIERS. Successive strips of land parallel with the ordinary high water
line, each one tier depth wide, and extending across the parcel.
   LOT WIDTH. The shortest distance between lot lines measured at the midpoint
of the building line.
   MAINTENANCE. The normal upkeep of a structure, including the replacement of
windows, siding, roofs, nonbearing walls, or interior remodeling that does not
expand the footprint of the existing structure, add volume to the usable living
space, or intensify a non-conforming use.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which, when erected onsite, is a minimum of 640 square feet, is built on a
permanent foundation, contains the heating, plumbing, and electrical systems
within, and meets the requirements of the Building Code adopted by the state.
   MARINA. A dock or set of docks on a single parcel that contains more than
three slips or more slips than first tier dwelling units, whichever is greater.
   MATURE TREE. A living tree greater than four inches in diameter.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A method of property description utilizing directions and
distances commencing from and terminating at an identifiable point.
   MOTEL. A building containing guest rooms or units, each of which has a
separate entrance directly from the outside of the building, or corridor, with
parking space reserved for each unit, and which is designed, used, or intended
to be used primarily for the accommodation of transient guests.
   MULTI-LEVEL DWELLING. A type of multi-family housing consisting of dwelling
units stacked one above the other, creating a party floor or floors between
units.
   NATURAL DRAINAGE WAY. All land surface areas which, by nature of their
contour or configuration, collect, store, and channel surface or runoff water.
   NEIGHBORHOOD. The area adjacent to or surrounding existing or proposed
development characterized by common use or uses, density, style, and age of
structures and environmental characteristics.
   NON-CONFORMING. The building, structure, or land lawfully existing prior to
and not in conformance with the provisions of this chapter.
   NUISANCE. By authority and direction of M.S. Ch. 145A and M.S. § 412.221,
Subds. 23 and 24, as they may be amended from time to time, NUISANCE is
anything that interferes with the use or enjoyment of property, endangers
personal health of public safety, or is offensive to the senses such as
excessive smoke, odor, noise, heat, vibration, glare, traffic generation,
visual impact, and other similar interferences or offenses.
   NURSERY. A retail business growing and selling trees, flowering or
decorative plants and shrubs.
   NURSING HOME. Any institution or facility required to be licensed as such
under M.S. §§ 144.50 to 144.56, as they may be amended from time to time, by
the State Board of Health.
   OFF-STREET PARKING. A designated space or area of land with a paved or all-
weather surface not within a public street or right-of-way and used for the
parking of vehicles.
   OPEN DISTRICT. A zoning district defined by natural features to be
unsuitable for any dwelling and unsuitable for any other development except in
accordance with the conditional use permit process. Corresponds to the DNR
Special Protection District.
   OPEN STORAGE. Storage of material outside of a building.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK. The boundary of public waters and wetlands
consisting of an elevation delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for sufficient period of time to leave evidence on the landscape,
commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from predominantly
aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER
LEVEL is the elevation of the top of the bank of the channel, for reservoir and
flowages, the ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL is the operating elevation of the
normal summer pool.
   OVERLAY MAP. An official map of the city that describes the location of an
overlay zone.
   OWNER. An individual, firm, association, syndicate, partnership,
corporation, trust, or any other legal entity having proprietary interest in
the land and/or building.
   PARKING SPACE. A ten-foot by 20-foot site off public right-of-way,
maintained and sized to accommodate the parking of one automobile.
   PARTY WALL OR FLOOR. A common wall which divides two independent dwelling
units or businesses.
   PERMITTED USE. A land use conforming to the character of a zoning district
which is permitted by ordinance, requiring only a zoning permit issued by the
Zoning Administrator.
   PET. An animal commonly associated with human habitation, not considered
under animal units, and not raised for production of income.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A land use characterized by a unified site
design for a number of dwelling units or dwelling sites on a parcel, whether
for sale, rent, or lease, and also usually involving clustering of these units
or sites to provide areas of common green space, density increases, and mix of
structure types and land uses. Does not include a duplex where specifically
allowed in a zoning district on a single parcel of land.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS, COMMERCIAL. Uses that provide transient, short-
term lodging spaces, rooms, or parcels, and their operations are essentially
service-orientated. These shall include, but not be limited to, hotel/motel
accommodations, resorts, recreational vehicle and camping parks, and other
primarily service-oriented activities.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT, RESIDENTIAL. A use where the nature of residency
is nontransient and the major or primary focus of the development is not
service-oriented. For example, residential apartments, manufactured home parks,
townhouses, cooperatives, and full fee ownership residences would be considered
as RESIDENTIAL PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS. Includes time share condominiums not
part of a resort.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The body duly appointed by the City Council to
determine the development of the city and make recommendations to the City
Council on comprehensive plans, zoning district boundaries, conditional use
permits, subdivision of land, and capital improvements.
   PORCH. A covered platform attached to a structure.
   PORCH, ENCLOSED. A covered platform attached to a structure with more
permanent enclosures than those described in PORCH.
   PORTABLE. Capable of being transferred or moved from one place to another.
   PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES. The property owner proposes to use the property in a
reasonable manner not permitted by an official control; the plight of the
landowner is due to circumstances unique to the property not created by the
landowner; and the variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character
of locality. Economic considerations alone do not constitute PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES. PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES include, but are not limited to,
inadequate access to direct sunlight for solar energy systems.
   PRE-BUILT HOME. Same as MANUFACTURED HOME.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT OR PLAN. A plan prepared in accordance with this chapter
depicting the proposed subdivision of property by final plat or final floor
plan.
   PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE OR USE. The single primary structure or use on a lot, as
distinguished from accessory uses or structure. To be considered a PRINCIPAL
STRUCTURE, the structure must be at least 400 square feet.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Restrictions placed on the property by the owner and
duly filed with the County Recorder. These may also be used in planned unit
developments to establish homeowners associations, restrict shoreline
development, and provide for common facilities.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Any waters as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, as amended from
time to time. However, no lake, pond, or flowage of less than ten acres in size
in municipalities need be regulated for the purposes of the shoreland
management rule. A body of water created by a private user where there was no
previous shoreline may, at the discretion of the local government, be exempted
from the shoreland management. The official determination of the size and
physical limits of drainage areas of rivers and streams should be made by the
DNR Commissioner.
   RECORDER. The County Recorder.
   RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT. Equipment, both motorized and non-motorized, that is
subject to licensing by the state and is designed primarily for recreational
use.
   RESIDENTIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system
consisting of a wind turbine, and associated control or conversion electronics,
which has a rated capacity of not more than 20 kW and which is intended to
primarily reduce onsite consumption of utility power. A system is considered a
RESIDENTIAL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM only if it supplies electrical power solely for
onsite use, except that when a parcel on which the system is installed also
receives electrical power supplied by a utility company, excess electrical
power generated and not presently needed for onsite may be used by the utility
company.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Vehicles for recreational use that can be driven,
towed, or hauled. These vehicles are designed to be temporary living space for
camping or travel use. RVs shall include travel trailers, camper trailers,
truck campers, self-propelled motor homes, and other similar vehicles.
   RESORT. Any buildings, structures, or enclosures kept, used, maintained, or
advertised as, or held out to the public to be, an enclosure where sleeping
accommodations are furnished to the public and primarily to those seeking
recreations, for periods of one day, one week, or longer, and having for rent
three or more cottages, rooms, or enclosures along with any related facilities
such as restaurants, bars, golf courses, or other recreational amenities.
   RESTAURANT. An establishment where the principal business is the
preparation, service, and sale of food and beverages to be consumed by
customers at tables or counters located within the building on the premises.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A parcel of property dedicated to the public, connecting to
other public rights-of-way, which affords primary access by pedestrians and
vehicles to abutting properties.
   RIPARIAN LOT. A property that is abutting a body of water listed in §
150.025(D).
   RURAL CONSERVATION SUBDIVISION. A method of subdividing land that provides
for preservation of open space and clustering of individual lots.
   SCREENING. Fencing, an earthen berm, or vegetative growth that visually
separates one object from another.
   SELF-STORAGE FACILITY. A building or group of buildings sharing common wall
and containing separate storage spaces of varying sizes that are leased or
rented as individual units. Storage units may or may not be climate controlled.
   SEMI PUBLIC USE. The use of land by private nonprofit organizations to
provide a public service that is ordinarily open to some persons outside the
regular constituency of the organization.
   SENSITIVE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT. The preservation and management of areas
unsuitable for development in their natural state due to constraints such as
shallow soils over ground water or bedrock, highly erosive or expansive soils,
steep slopes, acceptability to flooding, or occurrence of flora or fauna in
need of special protection.
   SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure, sewage
treatment system, or other facility and an ordinary high water level, sewage
treatment system, top of bluff, road, highway, property line, or other
facility. Three feet of roof overhang, stoops not exceeding 30 square feet, and
steps from stoop to ground not over four feet wide may protrude into the
SETBACK.
   SETBACK, INTERIOR LOT. In a planned unit development, the closest horizontal
distance between the lot line and the foundation or wall of a structure when
the lot line is not the exterior boundary of the development. Three feet of
roof overhang, stoops not exceeding 30 square feet, and steps from stoop to
ground not over four feet wide may protrude into the setback.
   SETBACK, SIDE, EXTERIOR. The closest horizontal distance between the
exterior boundary side lot line and the foundation or wall of a structure. This
setback takes precedence over setback, interior lot, where any conflict exists.
Three feet of roof overhang, stoops not exceeding 30 square feet, and steps
from stoop to ground not over four feet wide may protrude into the setback.
   SETBACK, ROAD. The closest horizontal distance between the road right-of-way
line and the foundation or wall of a structure. Three feet of roof overhang,
stoops not exceeding 30 square feet, and steps from stoop to ground not over
four feet wide may protrude into the setback.
   SETBACK, WATERFRONT. The closest horizontal distance between the ordinary
high water mark and the foundation or wall or edge of a structure. Three feet
of roof overhang, stoops not exceeding 30 square feet, and steps from stoop to
ground not over four feet wide may protrude into the setback.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEM. A septic tank and soil absorption system or other
individual or cluster type sewage treatment system as described and regulated
in Minn. Rules Chapter 7080, as amended from time to time.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Pipe lines or conduits, pumping stations, and forcemain, and
all other constructions, devices, appliances, or appurtenances used for
conducting sewage or industrial waste, or other waste, to a point of ultimate
disposal.
   SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the normal
structure setback.
   SHORELAND. Land located within the following distances from public water:
1,000 feet from the ordinary high water level of a lake, pond, or flowage; and
300 feet from a river or stream, or landward extent of a floodplain designated
by ordinance on a river or stream, whichever is greater. The limits of
SHORELANDS may be reduced whenever the waters involved are bounded by
topographic divides which extend landward from the water for lesser distances
and when approved by the DNR Commissioner.
   SHORELINE PROPERTY. A lot directly abutting a public water, generally
located in the first lot tier adjoining the public water.
   SIGNS. A name, identification, description, display, illustration,
advertisement, or device which is displayed for the purpose of attracting
attention to a person, product, place, activity, institution, or business.
   SIGNS, AREA IDENTIFICATION. A sign located at the entrance or entrances of
the area that is used to identify a common area containing a group of
structures on a minimum of five acres, such as a residential subdivision, where
there exists an association that provides for the maintenance of the sign or
structures.
   SIGNS, DIRECTORY. A sign erected at an intersection that lists the
residences or businesses that reside along the intersecting roadway.
   SIGNS, OFFSITE. Any sign not located on the contiguously owned property with
the use which is advertised.
   SIGNS, ONSITE. Any sign located on the contiguously owned property with the
use which is advertised.
   SIGNS, PORTABLE. A sign that is intrinsically designed to be moved or a sign
that is not permanently affixed to the ground or a building.
   SIGNIFICANT HISTORICAL SITE. Any archeological site, standing structure, or
other property that meets the criteria for eligibility to the National Register
of Historical Places, or is listed in the State Register of Historical Sites,
or is determined to be an unplatted cemetery that falls under the provisions of
M.S. § 307.08, as amended from time to time. A HISTORICAL SITE meets this
criteria if it is presently listed on either Register or if it is determined to
meet the qualifications for listing after review by the State Archeologist or
the Director of the State Historical Society. All unplatted cemeteries are
automatically considered to be SIGNIFICANT HISTORICAL SITES.
   SKETCH PLAN. A plan drawn to scale used for planning and discussion purposes
only.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, GROUND-MOUNTED. A solar energy system that is installed
onto the ground directly or by means of brackets or poles.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM, ROOF-MOUNTED. A solar energy system mounted to the roof
of a dwelling or other building.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS (ADULT USE). Include any less than completely and
opaquely covered human genitals, pubic region, or pubic hair, buttocks, and
female breast below a point immediately above the top of the areola; and human
male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES (ADULT USE). Any of the following conditions:
      (1)   An act of sexual intercourse, normal or perverted, actual or
simulated, including genital-genital, anal-genital, or oral-genital
intercourse, whether between human beings or between a human being and an
animal;
      (2)   Sadomasochistic abuse, meaning flagellation or torture by or upon a
person who is nude or clad in undergarments or in a revealing costume or the
condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restricted on the
part of one so clothed;
      (3)   Masturbation or lewd exhibitions of the genitals, including any
explicit, close-up presentation of a human genital organ, clothed or unclothed;
and
      (4)   Physical contact or simulated physical contact with the clothed or
unclothed pubic area or buttocks of a human male or female, or the breasts of a
female, whether alone or between members of the same or opposite sex or between
humans and animals in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or gratification.
   SSTS. Subsurface sewage treatment system.
   STEEP SLOPE. Land where agricultural activity or development is either not
recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness due to the
site’s soil characteristics as mapped and described in available County Soils
Surveys or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
these regulations. Where specific information is not available, STEEP SLOPES
are lands having average slopes over 12% as measured over horizontal distances
of 50 feet or more, but which are not bluffs.
   STOOP. An entry platform into a structure.
   STORAGE BUILDINGS, COMMERCIAL. A structure used for the storage of
buildings, equipment, or materials that is not intended for human habitation
and available on a rental or lease basis.
   STREET. A public right-of-way that provides primary vehicular access to
abutting property and shall include avenue, road, or highway. STREET
CLASSIFICATIONS are defined in the Comprehensive Plan unless defined in a
roadway classification plan or other similar road-specific plan.
   STREET, ARTERIAL. A street that has the primary function of rapidly moving
traffic to or through the city. May provide access to abutting land. ARTERIAL
STREETS are, in general, county or state highways that begin and terminate
outside of the city limits or connect to other ARTERIAL STREETS within the
city.
   STREET, COLLECTOR. A street that has the primary function of receiving and
distributing traffic to and from local streets and providing distribution of
traffic within. May provide access to abutting lots. In general, COLLECTOR
STREETS begin and terminate at arterial streets or other COLLECTOR STREETS.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street, the function of which is to provide localized
access to individual parcels. Does not normally carry through traffic. Traffic
volumes and traffic speeds are expected to be low.
   STRUCTURE. Any building, appurtenance, including decks or other facility
constructed, placed, or erected by man except aerial or underground utility
lines such as sewer, electric, telephone, telegraph, gas lines and except walks
or steps on grade not more than four feet wide outside of the shore impact
zone, stoops not exceeding 30 square feet, temporary furniture, planter, or
decorative material and retaining walls consisting of wood or decorative block.
   SUBDIVIDER. The owner, agent, person, corporation, partnership, or legal
entity proposing to subdivide property under his or her control.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of real estate into two or more parcels for the
purpose of sale, rent, or lease, including planned unit development.
   SUBDIVISION BY PLAT. The subdivision into two or more parcels of any size by
the authority of M.S. Chapter 505, as it may be amended from time to time, with
documents prepared by a registered land surveyor and duly approved by the
Planning Commission and Council.
   SUBDIVISION BY CONDOMINIUM PLAN. The subdivision of a building or the
subdivision of real estate into two or more spaces or parcels of any size by
the authority of M.S. Chapter 515A, as it may be amended from time to time,
with documents prepared by a registered land surveyor and duly approved by the
Planning Commission and Council.
   SUBDIVISION BY METES AND BOUNDS. Any division of real estate resulting in
two or more parcels which are not platted, but divided by description prepared
and signed by a registered land surveyor.
   SUBSTANDARD LOT. A lot that is non-conforming.
   SUBSTANDARD USE. A use that does not conform to this chapter.
   SURFACE WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE. The use of land for commercial
purposes where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral part
of the normal operation of business. Marinas, resorts, and restaurants with
transient docking facilities are examples of such use.
   TAPROOM. A room that is ancillary to the production of malt liquor at a
brewery where the public can purchase and/or consume only the malt liquor
produced onsite. A TAPROOM may also sell malt liquor for off-sale consumption
in growler containers.
   TEMPORARY. A use or structure that lasts longer than three days and is
discontinued within 14 days. Any use or structure existing longer than 14 days,
except where specifically provided for in this chapter, shall be considered
permanent unless a specific date of discontinuation, agreeable to the Planning
and Zoning Administrator to be reviewed by the Planning Commission, has been
submitted, in writing, to the city.
   TEMPORARY STRUCTURE. A structure of a temporary character, including, but
not limited to, house boats, fish houses, recreational vehicles, and tents.
   TOE OF BLUFF. The lower point of a 50-foot segment with an average slope
exceeding 18%.
   TOP OF THE BLUFF. The higher point of a 50-foot segment with an average
slope exceeding 18%.
   TOWER. A structure situated on a site that is intended for transmitting or
receiving television, radio, telephone, cellular, or wireless communications,
or the vertical component of a wind energy conversion system that elevates the
wind turbine generator and attached blades above the ground.
   TOWER HEIGHT. Determined by measuring the vertical distance from the point
of contact with the ground to the highest point of the tower, including all
antennas or other attachments.
   TOWNHOUSE DWELLING. A type of multi-family housing consisting of dwelling
units attached by common party walls. Ownership may be defined by plat or
condominium plan.
   TRAVEL TRAILER. Refer to RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   TREE. A woody plant four inches or more in diameter or eight feet or more in
height.
   VARIANCE. A legally permitted deviation from the provisions of this chapter
as deemed necessary by the Board of Adjustment after a property owner proposed
to use a property in a reasonable manner not permitted by an official control.
   VEGETATION REMOVAL, CLEAR CUTTING. The removal of more than 75% and up to
100% of a stand of trees and brush over ten feet in height on a lot or parcel
of land up to 40 acres.
   VEGETATION REMOVAL, INTENSIVE. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
continuous path, strip row, or block, excluding that clearing needed for the
construction of roads, driveways, walkways, or permitted stairways, lifts, or
landings.
   VIEW TO THE LAKE. View to be construed to be the line of sight from the
center of a riparian property at the lake setback to the lakeward concerns of
that property.
   WALKWAY. A parcel of property dedicated to the public for non-vehicular
access purposes.
   WAREHOUSING. The principal use is the storage of materials or equipment
within an enclosed building.
   WAREHOUSING, COMMERCIAL. The rental or sale of warehousing space.
   WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OR FACILITY. A small above-ground
building or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks, and retaining
walls, which, because of the relationship of its use to a surface water
feature, is located closer to public waters than the normal structure setback.
Examples of such structures and facilities include boat houses, gazebos, screen
houses, fish cleaning houses, and detached decks.
   WETLAND. Lands transitional between terrestrial and aquatic systems where
the water table is usually at or near the surface, or the land is covered by
shallow water. For the purposes of this definition, WETLANDS must have the
following three attributes:
      (1)   Have a predominance of hydric soils;
      (2)   Are inundated or saturated by surface or groundwater at a frequency
and duration sufficient to support a prevalence of hydrophytic vegetation
typically adapted for life in saturated soil conditions; and
      (3)   Under normal circumstances, support a prevalence of such
vegetation.
   WIND TURBINE. Any piece of electrical generating equipment that converts the
kinetic energy of wind into electrical energy.
   YARD. A required green space occupied and unobstructed by a structure or
portion of a structure, provided that fences, signs, utility poles, lawn
lights, antennas, and related minor equipment may be permitted in any YARD,
provided that they do not create a safety hazard or constitute a nuisance.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The duly appointed person responsible for the
enforcement and administration of this chapter.
   ZONING DISTRICT. An area of the city defined on the zoning map, having
uniform zoning provisions.
   ZONING DISTRICT OVERLAY. A zoning district containing regulations
superimposed upon other zoning district regulations and superseding the
underlying zoning district regulations.
   ZONING MAP. The map of the city, amended from time to time, which defines
the boundaries of the zoning districts.
   ZONING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Zoning Administrator to allow the
construction of a structure or to allow a land use when the provisions of this
chapter have been met, when approval of any conditional use permits or
variances have been granted, and when the fees are paid. A ZONING PERMIT may
have administrative conditions specific to the subject site when called for by
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-21-21, passed 5-10-2021; Ord. O-22-22, passed
10-11-2022; Ord. O-20-20, passed - -2020; Ord. O-24-36, passed 12-9-2024)
§ 150.006 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum
requirements for the maintaining of the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   Where the provisions of this chapter are either more restrictive or
less restrictive then applicable provision of other laws, ordinances, statutes,
resolutions, covenants, or regulations of any kind, the more restrictive
condition, standard, or requirement shall prevail, except as authorized by the
more restrictive agency.
   (C)   Except as this chapter specifically provides, no structure shall be
erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or altered, and no structure or
land shall be used for any purpose nor in any manner which is not in conformity
with this chapter.
   (D)   Any existing structure or use of property subject to conditions of
approval for a variance, conditional use permit, or other land use application
must have a land use certificate of compliance issued within 12 months of the
approval. The land use certificate of compliance, when issued, shall state that
the building or use appears to be in compliance with the conditions of
approval.
   (E)   Ambiguities in this chapter shall be resolved by interpretation of the
Planning and Zoning Administrator. If an applicant wishes to appeal the
interpretation of the Administrator, an appeal can be made through a hearing of
the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.007 ENVIRONMENTAL DOCUMENTS AND CONCURRENT PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to secure necessary
concurrent permits such as Pollution Control Agency, State Waste Disposal
permits; Health Department permits; DNR planned unit development permits; Corps
of Engineers permits, DNR public water permits, and DNR water appropriation
permits. Approval by the city does not imply approval by other agencies.
   (B)   The city will prepare an environmental assessment worksheet (EAW)
where a proposed project exceeds the limits defined in the Environmental
Quality Council’s Rules and Regulations for Environmental Review Program, or as
requested by the Planning Commission or petitioned by the public.
   (C)   The administration of an EAW or EIS shall be in accordance with the
rules and regulations of the State Environmental Quality Board. The Zoning
Administrator shall be responsible to the City Council and have the authority
to administer the environmental document. The Planning Commission shall review
each document and make recommendations to the City Council, whose decision
shall be final.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.008 USE OF PRE-EXISTING LOTS.
   (A)   A non-conforming lot that was either of record in the office of the
County Recorder prior to March 10, 2003, or was of record on or after March 10,
2003, but before the effective date of this chapter, and complied with city
standards in effect at the time it was recorded in the office of the County
Recorder, shall remain a legal non-conforming lot and shall be allowed as a
residential building site without a variance, provided that:
      (1)   All structure and septic system setbacks can be met;
      (2)   A Type One sewage treatment system consistent with Minn. Rules
Chapter 7080, as amended from time to time, and §
150.261 can be installed or the lot is connected to a public sewer; and
      (3)   The impervious surface coverage does not exceed that which is
allowed in §§
150.025 through
150.038.
   (B)   If, in a group of two or more contiguous lots under the same ownership
in the Shoreland District that were of record in the office of the County
Recorder prior to March 10, 2003, any individual lot does not meet the
requirements of this chapter for lot size or lot width, the lot must not be
considered as a separate parcel of land for the purposes of sale or
development. The lot must be combined with the one or more contiguous lots so
they equal one or more parcels of land, each meeting the requirements of this
chapter.
   (C)   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 1e, as amended from time to time,
contiguous lots under the same ownership are exempt from this section and may
be considered as separate parcels for the purposes of sale, transfer, or
development if each individual lot meets all of the following requirements:
      (1)   The lot meets at least 66% of the dimensional standards for lot
width and lot size for the land use district within which it lies;
      (2)   The lot must be connected to a public sewer, if available, or must
be suitable for the installation of a Type One subsurface sewage treatment
system meeting the standards contained in §
150.261;
      (3)   Impervious surface coverage does not exceed that which is allowed
in §§
150.025 through
150.038; and
      (4)   Development of the lot is consistent with the City Comprehensive
Land Use Plan.
   (D)   Contiguous lots under the same ownership are exempt from this section
and may be considered as separate parcels for the purposes of sale, transfer,
or development if each lot contained a habitable residential dwelling at the
time the lots came under common ownership and the lots are served by a public
sewer, if available, or must be suitable for the installation of a subsurface
sewage treatment system meeting the standards contained in §
150.261.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.009 NON-CONFORMING STRUCTURES AND USES.
   Any structure or use legally existing upon the effective date of the
adoption of this chapter and which does not conform to the provisions of this
chapter may be continued subject to the following.
   (A)   No such structure or use shall be expanded, enlarged, or intensified,
except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and division (B)
below, with consideration for variances thereto and consideration given for
previously approved planned unit developments.
   (B)   A one-time addition to a non-conforming principal structure shall be
permitted subject to the following.
      (1)   The non-conformity is due solely to setbacks.
      (2)   The addition is not within the shore impact zone.
      (3)   The addition will not encroach further into any setback.
      (4)   The size of the addition shall not exceed 50% of the size of the
structure it is being added to.
      (5)   The total footprint of the structure, once the addition is
completed, shall not exceed 2,500 square feet, including decks, porches,
patios, and other projections.
      (6)   For reasons of structural integrity, a basement may be allowed
under the addition only where a basement exists in the original structure.
      (7)   Additional screening is provided to screen the addition as viewed
from adjacent properties, public roads, and the surface water.
      (8)   A stormwater management plan is implemented that directs stormwater
away from adjacent properties and surface waters.
      (9)   The height of the addition shall not exceed the height of the
existing structure.
      (10)   Beyond minor alterations needed to accommodate the addition, no
structural modifications shall be made to the original structure.
      (11)   No permits shall be granted under this provision for homes
constructed after January 1, 2007, or where a previous variance has been
approved.
      (12)   All other provisions of this chapter must be complied with.
   (C)   If a non-conforming structure is damaged, by any cause, to an extent
where the repair costs exceed 50% of its assessed value immediately prior to
damage, the structure may be replaced with a structure of exact dimensions,
provided a permit is applied for within 180 days of when the property was
damaged. Where no land use permit has been applied for within 180 days of when
the property was damaged, then the structure or its replacement shall
thereafter conform to this chapter.
   (D)   Any non-conformity, including the lawful use or occupation of land or
premises existing at the time of the adoption of this code, may be continued,
including through repair, replacement, restoration, maintenance, or
improvement, so long as the structure or use is not expanded. An expanded
replacement of a non-conforming structure may only be allowed if the
replacement lessens the non-conformity. Replacement of a non-conforming
structure will not be allowed where the non-conformity or occupancy has been
discontinued for a period of one year or more. Any structural repairs or
replacement of non-conforming structures shall require a land use permit.
   (E)   A lawful, non-conforming use may be changed to lessen the non-
conformity of use. Once a non-conforming use has been changed, it shall not
thereafter be altered to increase the non-conformity.
   (F)   In evaluating all variances, zoning and building permit applications,
or conditional use requests, the zoning authority shall require the property
owner to address, when appropriate, stormwater runoff management, reducing
impervious surfaces, increasing setback, restoration of wetlands, vegetative
buffers, sewage treatment, and water supply capabilities, and other
conservation-designed actions.
   (G)   Sewage treatment systems shall be upgraded to a conforming status in
conformance with the following schedule:
      (1)   Upon availability of a community sewer system to the property,
connection to that system shall be made, regardless of the conformance or non-
conformance of the individual system;
      (2)   Upon issuance of any permit or variance for any improvement on, or
use of, the property;
      (3)   Upon determination that leakage to the surface or lake or into an
adjacent well is occurring, or determination that the system is discharging
into the ground at an elevation less than three feet above the highest known
watertable;
      (4)   Upon determination by the Zoning Administrator that a system is
inadequate for a change in occupation or use in the structure; and
      (5)   Upon notice by the Zoning Administrator that the city’s records
indicate the system is non-conforming.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.010 BUILDING STANDARDS.
   (A)   All structures and appurtenances shall be constructed in accordance
with the general standards of the building industry. The city does not examine
plans nor assume liability for the structural stability or quality of any
structures.
   (B)   All dwelling units shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide and shall be
placed on a foundation.
   (C)   Any new structure constructed or placed after the date of this chapter
and not on a permanent foundation shall be considered a temporary structure.
   (D)   New manufactured homes and mobile homes shall be installed by a
licensed installer and a copy of the installation compliance certificate shall
be submitted to the city prior to occupancy of the dwelling.
   (E)   For dwellings to be moved onto a property, excluding manufactured
homes that have never been occupied, the following shall be applicable.
      (1)   Prior to permit issuance, the property owner shall provide
documentation of a certified home inspection, including the following, at a
minimum:
         (a)   Certification that the electrical wiring meets State Codes;
         (b)   Certification that the plumbing meets State Codes;
         (c)   An evaluation of foundation adaptability and condition;
         (d)   An evaluation of roof condition;
         (e)   An evaluation of structural integrity; and
         (f)   Certification that all doors, windows, and siding are in
acceptable condition. Buildings should be finished in aesthetically acceptable
tones and colors and complement the tones and colors of all other buildings on
the property.
      (2)   The dwelling, once in place, must meet all municipal ordinances,
with consideration given for approved variances.
   (F)   Individual sewage treatment systems shall conform to State Pollution
Control Agency Standards, Minn. Rules Chapters 7080 through 7083.
   (G)   Any private supply of water for domestic purposes must meet or exceed
standards for water quality of the State Department of Health and the MPCA.
   (H)   Plumbing and electrical facilities installed after the date of this
chapter in all structures shall conform to the State Plumbing Code and State
Electrical Code, respectively.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-23-27, passed 8-14-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.011 OTHER STANDARDS.
   The provisions of this chapter do not take precedent over other federal,
state, or local laws that may be more restrictive. In the case of a more
restrictive standard applied by a governing body that has land use authority
within the city, the non-local standard would apply, unless authorization from
the more restrictive governing agency has been received. In the case where this
chapter is the most restrictive standard, the provisions of this chapter shall
apply.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.012 SUPREMACY.
   When any condition implied by this chapter on the use of land or buildings
is more restrictive or less restrictive than applicable conditions imposed by
statute, rules, and regulations, other city ordinance or regulation, or other
jurisdiction, the more restrictive shall apply. This chapter does not abrogate
any easements, restriction, or covenants imposed on the land by private
declaration or agreement, but where such provisions are less restrictive than
an applicable of this chapter, this chapter shall prevail.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.013 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Generally. The City Council may adopt amendments by four-fifths vote
to either the Zoning Ordinance, zoning map, or overlay maps in relation to the
land uses within a district or the boundaries of the district(s). Such
amendments shall not be issued indiscriminately, but shall only be used as a
means to reflect changes in the goals of the community or changes in the
conditions of the city.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   An amendment may be initiated by the Planning Commission or by any
property owner.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the proposed changes and make
a recommendation to the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall make a reasonable attempt to cause
all property owners within a minimum of 350 feet of proposed zoning district
change to be notified by regular mail and shall publish a hearing notice for
either a zoning district change or zoning ordinance change in the legal section
of the official newspaper and shall provide notice to the DNR at least ten days
ahead of the public hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold the hearing and
make a timely recommendation to the City Council. Adoption of a new zoning map
shall requite published notice only. The Planning Commission shall consider the
criteria for land use categories, §
150.025(G), in its decision.
      (4)   The City Council shall review the recommendations and shall make a
timely decision. An amendment requires a four-fifths vote to be enacted.
      (5)   The City Clerk-Treasurer shall publish a summary of the text of the
change or description of boundary change or a new zoning map, whichever is
appropriate, in the official newspaper within 30 days after action by the
Council.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND DISTRICT PROVISIONS
§ 150.025 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The city is hereby divided into zoning districts, as shown on the
official zoning district map, which may be subsequently amended by the
procedures of §
150.013.
   (B)   The boundaries are generally on the center of the streets, on lot
lines, on shorelines, on the center of streams or rivers, and following the
contour of the land.
   (C)   The following districts are hereby established:
Agricultural              A
Central Business          C-1
Floodplain Overlay        FP
Highway Business          C-2
Light Industrial          I-1
Public                    P
Residential Storage       RS
Rural Residential         RR
Single Family Residential R-1
Shoreland Overlay         SO
Urban Residential         R-2
 
   (D)   The jurisdiction of this chapter shall include all land within the
municipal boundaries of the city.
   (E)   The following provisions apply to all zoning districts.
      (1)   Except where specifically stated, all accessory structures or uses
require the prior establishment of a principal structure.
      (2)   Unless specifically allowed, no more than four leases per year, per
dwelling, are allowed.
   (F)   Criteria for land use categories:
      (1)   Preservation of natural sensitive areas;
      (2)   Present ownership and development;
      (3)   Shoreland soil types and their engineering capabilities;
      (4)   Topographic characteristics;
      (5)   Vegetative cover;
      (6)   In-water physical characteristics;
      (7)   Recreational use of surface water;
      (8)   Road and service center accessibility;
      (9)   Socio-economic development needs of the public;
      (10)   Availability of public sewer and water utilities;
      (11)   The necessity to reserve and restore certain areas having
significant historical or ecological value;
      (12)   Conflicts between land uses and Impacts of commercial uses or
higher densities on adjacent properties;
      (13)   Alternatives available for desired land use;
      (14)   Prevention of spot zoning;
      (15)   Conformance to the City Comprehensive Plan; and
      (16)   Conformance to the city’s future land use map and any other
official maps of the city.
   (G)   Regardless of existence of purported copies of the official zoning
map, which may from time to time be made or published, the official zoning map,
which shall be located in the office of the City Clerk-Treasurer, shall be the
final authority as the current zoning status of land and water areas,
buildings, and other structures in the city.
      (1)   The location and boundaries of the districts established by this
chapter are set forth on the official zoning map. District boundary lines as
indicated on the zoning map follow lot lines, property lines, right-of-way or
center lines of streets or alleys, right-of-way center lines of streets or
alleys projected, the city limit lines, shorelines, all as they exist upon the
effective date of this chapter. If said boundary lines do not follow any of the
above, the district boundary lines are established as drawn on the zoning map.
      (2)   Whenever any street, alley, or other public way is vacated in the
manner authorized by law, the zoning district adjoining each side of such
street, alley, or public way shall be automatically extended to the center of
such vacation, and all included in the vacation shall then and henceforth be
subject to all regulations of the extended districts.
      (3)   Appeals concerning the exact location of a zoning district boundary
line shall be heard by the Board of Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.026 AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (AG).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This district is intended to preserve areas for
low intensity use such as forestry, pasture, and cropland, low density
residential development, and outdoor recreation, and to serve as a holding zone
for future higher intensity uses when infrastructure is made available.
   (B)   Lot, use, and density requirements.
 One-Family Other Uses
                        One-Family Other Uses
Building height maximum 30 feet    30 feet*
Front yard minimum      50 feet    50 feet
Lot area minimum        10 acres   10 acres
Lot width minimum feet  150 feet   500 feet
Maximum lot coverage    10%        5%
Rear yard minimum       30 feet    30 feet
Side yard minimum       30 feet    30 feet
Note to table:
*   Silos, barns, and other agricultural buildings shall be exempt from the
height requirements as long as they do not conflict with other area
requirements.
 
   (C)   Performance standards. 
      (1)   The following performance standards apply to all development in
this zone:
      (2)   Animals. There are no animal unit restrictions on agricultural-
zoned parcels.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-24-37, passed 12-9-2024)
§ 150.027 RURAL DISTRICT (RR).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The (RR) Rural Residential District is intended to
be semi-rural in character and to allow low density residential and compatible
agricultural uses in shore land and non- shore land areas. Other compatible
uses may be allowed under conditional use permits. Front yards shall be
landscaped, and no off-street parking shall be permitted, except as would be
characteristic and in harmony with the purposes of an RR District.
   (B)   Lot, use, and density requirements.
 Single Family Dwelling Duplex Triplex Four Plex
                             Single Family Dwelling Duplex   Triplex  Four Plex
Front/side yard minimum      30 feet                30 feet  30 feet  30 feet
setback to right-of-way
Lot area minimum square foot 2 acres                3 acres  4 acres  5 acres
Lot width minimum foot       150 feet               225 feet 300 feet 375 feet
Maximum building height*     35 feet                35 feet  35 feet  35 feet
Maximum lot coverage         20%                    20%      20%      20%
Minimum width of             20 feet                20 feet  20 feet  20 feet
structures**
Rear yard minimum setback    30 feet                30 feet  30 feet  30 feet
Side yard minimum setback    20 feet                20 feet  20 feet  20 feet
Notes to table:
*   Church spires, belfries, domes which do not contain usable space, chimneys,
and similar structures not intended for human occupancy, may be of a height
which does not conflict with airport requirements.
**   Manufactured homes located in a manufactured home park are excluded.
 
   (C)   Performance standards. 
      (1)   The following performance standards apply to all development in
this zone:
      (2)   Animals. Livestock only allowed in Rural Residential (RR) district
on parcels of ten acres
or more. On RR parcels greater than ten acres, there are no animal unit
restrictions. On RR-zoned parcels less than ten acres but more than one, small
livestock is allowed as shown:
 
Acre(s)   Animal Units
1 acre    1.0
2 acres   2.0
2.5 acres 2.5
3 acres   3.0
Note to table:
Minimum of 1 acre is required to allow 1.0 animal unit equivalent to be kept.
For each additional whole acre over 3 acres, 1.0 additional animal unit
equivalent is permitted. Partial acres on parcels greater than 3 acres do not
increase the available animal unit equivalents.
 
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-24-37, passed 12-9-2024)
§ 150.028 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL (R-1).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The (R-1) Single Family District is intended for
low to moderate density residential development in those areas where such
development fits the Comprehensive Plan and policies. No off-street parking
shall be permitted, except as would be characteristic and in harmony with the
purposes of an R-1 District.
   (B)   Lot, use, and density requirements.
Buildable lot area - square feet, minimum          20,000
Lot width - feet, minimum                          100
Maximum building height - feet                     35*
Maximum impervious coverage                        30%
Setback, corner side, right-of-way - feet, minimum 15
Setback, front, right-of-way - feet, minimum       30
Setback, rear yard/alley - feet, minimum           20
Setback, side - feet, minimum                      10
Setback, sign - feet, minimum                      1
Setback, wetland - feet, minimum                   15
Note to table:
*   Church spires, belfries, domes which do not contain usable space,
chimneys, and similar structures not intended from human occupancy, may be of
any height which does not conflict with airport requirements.
 
   (C)   Performance standards. The following performance standards apply to
all development in this zone.
      (1)   Animals. Livestock not allowed in Single Family Residential (R-1)
District. On R-1-zoned parcels more than one acre, small livestock is allowed
as shown:
 
Acre(s)   Animal Units
1 acre    1.0
2 acres   2.0
2.5 acres 2.5
3 acres   3.0
Notes to table:
Minimum of 1 acre is required to allow 1.0 animal unit equivalent to be kept.
For each additional whole acre over 3 acres, 1.0 additional animal unit
equivalent is permitted. Partial acres on parcels greater than 3 acres do not
increase the available animal unit equivalents.
Small livestock allowed in Single Family Residential (R-1) only on parcels of
one acre or more. Please refer to the definition of ANIMAL UNIT in §
150.005 for all other animals.
 
      (2)   Fences. Fences not exceeding 96 inches in height may be
constructed. Under no circumstances shall a fence be constructed closer than
ten feet from the surface of a public road. Materials shall consist of usual
fencing materials with posts and fence of metal, wood, concrete, brick, or
smooth wire. Barbed or electrified wire is not to be used where frequent human
contact is anticipated.
      (3)   Connection to municipal utilities. Where municipal utilities are
provided or reasonably close, in the opinion of the City Engineer, the property
shall be connected to the municipal system. All other properties shall be
designed and constructed so as to facilitate future connection to the municipal
utility systems.
      (4)   Weeds and grass.
         (a)   It is unlawful for any owner, occupant, or agenda of any lot or
parcel of land in the R-1 Zone to allow any weeds or grass growing upon any
such lot or parcel of land to grow to a height greater than eight inches, or to
allow such weeds or grass to go to seed. All noxious weeds shall be prohibited.
WEEDS shall be defined as all grasses, annual plants, and vegetation, other
than trees or shrubs, provided, however, this term shall not include cultivated
flowers and gardens. Upon notification of violation, the owner has seven days
in which to comply.
         (b)   Upon failure of the owner or agent having charge of a property
to cut and destroy weeds or grass after service of a notice of violation, the
owner shall be subject to prosecution or penalty in accordance with § 150.999.
Upon failure to comply with the notice of violation, any duly authorized
employee of the city or contractor hired by the city shall be authorized to
enter upon the property in violation, in accordance with § 10.20, and cut and
destroy the weeds or grass growing thereon, and the costs of such removal shall
be paid by the owner or agent responsible for the property.
         (c)   A landowner wishing to maintain property in a natural state may
be exempted from the requirements of this section by submittal of a natural
landscape plan and by following the provisions and conditions set forth for
said plan.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-23-28, passed 8-14-2023; Ord. O-24-37, passed
12-9-2024) Penalty, see §  
150.999
§ 150.029 URBAN RESIDENTIAL (R-2).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The (R-2) Urban Residential District is intended
for higher density residential development, including single family homes,
apartments, townhouses, and other buildings for two or more dwelling units in
those areas where such development fits the Comprehensive Plan, where properly
related to other land uses and thoroughfares, and where adequate municipal
utilities are available. No off-street parking shall be permitted, except as
would be characteristic and in harmony with the purposes of an R-2 District.
   (B)   Lot, use, and density requirements.
Buildable lot area - square feet, minimum          10,000
Lot width - feet, minimum                          100
Maximum building height - feet                     35
Maximum impervious coverage                        30%
Setback, corner side, right-of-way - feet, minimum 15
Setback, front, right-of-way - feet, minimum       25
Setback, rear yard/alley - feet, minimum           20
Setback, side - feet, minimum                      10
Setback, sign - feet, minimum                      1
Setback, wetland - feet, minimum                   15
 
   (C)   Performance standards. The following performance standards apply to
all development in this zone.
      (1)   Animals. Livestock and small livestock not allowed in Urban
Residential (R-2) District. Please refer to the definition of ANIMAL UNIT in §
150.005 for all other animals.
      (2)   Fences. Fences not exceeding 96 inches in height may be
constructed. Under no circumstances shall a fence be constructed closer than
ten feet from the surface of a public road. Materials shall consist of usual
fencing materials with posts and fence of metal, wood, concrete, brick, or
smooth wire. Barbed or electrified wire is not to be used where frequent human
contact is anticipated.
      (3)   Sidewalks. Properties shall accommodate the safe and comfortable
sidewalks, paths, and resting areas for pedestrians. Sidewalks and paths shall
connect the development to adjacent land uses and provide connections through
the development to the public street right-of-way.
      (4)   Impervious coverage. Impervious coverage may be increased by 25%
through a conditional use permit if the following is provided:
         (a)   A stormwater retention plan showing containment of the 50-year,
24-hour storm event on the parcel; and
         (b)   Direct runoff of stormwater to adjacent water bodies, including
wetlands and adjacent parcels, shall be eliminated through the use of berms or
other permanent means.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-23-29, passed 8-14-2023; Ord. O-24-37, passed
12-9-2024) Penalty, see §  
150.999
§ 150.030 RESIDENTIAL STORAGE DISTRICT (RS).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This district is intended for storage buildings
housing residential storage. It is intended to be compatible with the
surrounding residential districts, and commercial storage is not allowed.
   (B)   Lot, use, and density requirements.
 Storage Lot
                                 Storage Lot
Front yard minimum               20 feet
                                 Landscaping is required in front yards
Landscaping                      and at least 50% of the perimeter of the
                                 building at least 4 feet in width from
                                 the building
Lot area minimum square foot     12,000 square feet
Lot width minimum foot           100 feet (at building line)
Maximum building height          35 feet
Maximum lot coverage (impervious 40%
surface)
Rear yard minimum/alley          20 feet
Side yard minimum                20 feet
Street side yard minimum         20 feet
 
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.031 PUBLIC DISTRICT (P).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The Public Use District includes land which is
currently in the public domain and which is the location of actual or planned
facilities intended to serve the public; to permit orderly and economic
development of public service utilities and schools within such a Public Use
District.
   (B)   Lot, use, and density requirements.
 
                                  Where a Public Zone District is located
                                  adjacent to another district in which the
                                  principal permitted use is clearly in
                                  conflict with or may be negatively
                                  affected by a permitted use in the Public
Buffer required                   Zone District, the Planning Commission
                                  may require buffer strips or other
                                  landscaping and related measures as may
                                  be necessary to protect the public
                                  interest and/or to comply with the spirit
                                  and intent of this chapter.
                                  Landscaping shall extend around the
                                  perimeter of the public building in an
Landscaping                       area no less than 4 feet in width. Front
                                  yards shall be landscaped to the building
                                  or structure.
Maximum lot coverage (impervious  65%
surface)
                                  Front yards, side yards, rear yards,
                                  setbacks, and maximum height - All
                                  proposed developments, whether new or
Minimum lot size and requirements expansions of existing uses, shall be
                                  reviewed and approved by the Planning and
                                  Zoning Commission on matters related to
                                  lot sizes, setbacks, side yards, and the
                                  like.
 
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.032 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (C-1).
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   This district is intended for retail stores, professional offices,
financial institutions, and general offices which are mutually compatible and
can benefit from and contribute to a compact shopping area serving the city and
the surrounding area. It is also intended to be a setting conducive to and safe
for a high level of pedestrian traffic.
      (2)   Off-street parking is generally not required for businesses located
in pedestrian-oriented areas, however, if the property abuts Hwy. 371, parking
shall be required.
      (3)   Businesses requiring a conditional use permit will also be required
to provide off-street parking.
   (B)   Lot, use, and density.
Front yard minimum      0 feet*
                        Landscaping shall be provided in areas not covered
Landscaping             by buildings, sidewalks, or parking areas on at
                        least 25% of the developed land area
                        20,000 square feet plus required space for off-
Lot area minimum        street parking and loading where applicable (see §
                        150.108)
Lot width minimum feet  25 feet
Maximum building height 45 feet
Maximum lot coverage    50%
(impervious surface)
Rear yard minimum/alley 0 feet***
Side yard minimum       0 feet**
Note to table:
*   In the C-1 District, awnings, marquees, canopies, balconies, deck and
roof extensions shall be allowed to extend beyond the 0’ front setback, over
the sidewalk (public right-of-way) upon meeting the requirements of this
section (see §§
150.050 through
150.055;
150.074;
151.01 through
151.21)
**   Where a Commercial District property abuts a Residential District,
there shall be a side yard setback of 20 feet
***   Where a Commercial District property abuts a Residential District,
there shall be a rear yard setback of 20 feet
 
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.033 HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This district is intended to accommodate
professional offices and larger scale businesses that provide goods and
services to the general public. The businesses in this district can benefit
from access and visibility from the TH 371 corridor. Adequate vehicle parking
and access must be provided on the property. Site planning, design,
landscaping, and design standards are important to project the image and
character of an attractive and distinctive corridor into the city.
   (B)   Compatibility. The Highway Business Zone should be established as a
transition zone between the Central Business District or the Light Industrial
Zone and the surrounding residential zones. The zone may not be established in
an area where it is completely surrounded by residential zones.
   (C)   Lot, use, and density requirements.
Front yard minimum               30 feet
                                 Landscaping is required in the front and
Landscaping                      side yards at least 25 feet in width and
                                 on a minimum of 25% of the developed lot
Lot area minimum                 One acre
Lot width minimum feet           100 feet
Maximum building height          45 feet
Maximum lot coverage (impervious 40%
surface)
Rear yard minimum/alley          20 feet**
Side yard minimum                20 feet*
Notes to table:
*   Where a Commercial District property abuts a Residential District,
there shall be a side yard setback of 30 feet
**   Where a Commercial District property abuts a Residential District,
there shall be a rear yard setback of 30 feet
 
   (D)   Performance standards. The following performance standards apply to
all development in this zone.
      (1)   Impervious coverage. Impervious coverage may be increased by up to
25%, not to exceed 50% of the property, through a conditional use permit if the
following is provided and approved by the city:
         (a)   A stormwater retention plan showing containment of the ten-year,
24-hour storm event on the parcel; and
         (b)   Direct runoff of stormwater to adjacent properties and wetlands
shall be eliminated through the use of berms, infiltration ponds, swales,
filtration strips, or other permanent means.
      (2)   Compatibility of use. Use shall be compatible with the surrounding
neighborhood. Uses shall not present noise, odor, light nuisances, or any other
nuisances.
      (3)   Parking. Off-street parking shall be provided as per §
150.108. On-street parking may be allowed by the Planning Commission. To reduce
the visual impacts and amount of surface parking, shared parking and surface
parking shall be located behind or to the side of a building. Additionally,
suitable trees and shrubs shall be planted between parking lots and all
adjacent sidewalks, roads, lots, and buildings.
      (4)   Pedestrian amenities. Proposed developments shall provide for safe
and comfortable sidewalks, paths, and resting areas for pedestrians. Sidewalks
and paths shall connect the development to adjacent land uses and provide
connections through the development to the public street right-of-way.
      (5)   Fences. Fences not exceeding 96 inches in height may be
constructed. Fencing shall only be constructed closer than ten feet from the
surface of a public road with the permission of the Planning Commission.
Materials shall consist of usual fencing materials with posts and fence of
metal, wood, concrete, brick, or smooth wire. Barbed or electrified wire is
allowed only with the permission of the Planning Commission.
      (6)   Screening. All sites shall be heavily landscaped to provide 100%
screening to adjacent residential parcels and over 50% screening from the road
or any non-residential parcel. Percentages shall be determined by amount of
structure that can be seen during leaf-on conditions. A landscaping and
screening plan must be submitted and approved by the Planning Commission with
each conditional use permit.
      (7)   Lighting. Lighting shall be minimal. Lighting shall be downward
directional and shall be compatible with the surrounding development.
      (8)   Fire lanes. Fire lanes shall remain unobstructed at all times.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.034 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-1).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This district is established to provide suitable
locations for commercial storage and wholesaling uses, light manufacturing, and
related activities which can maintain high standards in appearance and limit
external nuisance effects such as noise, odors, smoke, and vibration.
   (B)   Lot, use, and density requirements.
Building height maximum          45 feet****
Front yard minimum               30 feet*
                                 Landscaping is required in front yards
Landscaping                      and around the perimeter of the building
                                 not less than 20 feet in width
Lot area minimum                 One acre (43,560 square feet)
Lot width minimum feet           100 feet
Maximum lot coverage (impervious 50%
surface)
Rear yard minimum                30 feet***
Side yard minimum                20 feet**
Notes to table:
*   Where the industrial property abuts a residential district, there
shall be a front yard of not less than 50 feet.
**   Where the industrial property abuts a residential district, the side
yard setback shall be not less than 50 feet and shall contain a solid
fence or vegetative screening.
***   Where the industrial property abuts a residential district, the
rear yard setback shall be not less than 50 feet and shall contain a
solid fence or vegetative screening.
****   Cooling towers, elevator penthouses, domes which do not contain
usable space, water towers, and smoke stacks or other similar structures
not intended for human occupancy may be of any height which does not
conflict with airport regulations.
 
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.035 SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The regulations contained in this overlay district
are intended to guide and govern the wise development of shoreland of public
waters, thus preserving and enhancing the quality of surface waters, preserving
the economic and natural environmental values of shorelands, and providing for
the wise utilization of water and related land resources in the city. This is
an overlay district, thus, the standards (including permitted, accessory and
conditional uses) of the underlying zoning district also apply, and the
stricter of the two standards shall apply.
   (B)   Adoption, administration, and enforcement. The shoreland regulations
adopted by the county and found in the County Zoning Ordinance are hereby
adopted by reference to be part of the city's Zoning Ordinance. The shoreland
regulations on property located within the shoreland in the city are
administered and enforced by the City's Designated Wetland Conservation Act
Administrator. A permit for any land use must also be approved by the city and
meet the City Zoning Ordinance requirements for the underlying zoning district.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-24-33, passed 12-9-2024)
§ 150.036 FLOODPLAIN OVERLAY DISTRICT (FP).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this chapter is to maintain the
community’s eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program and to minimize
potential losses due to periodic flooding, including loss of life, loss of
property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Warning of disclaimer of liability. This chapter does not imply that
areas outside of the floodplain district or land uses permitted within such
districts will be free from flooding and flood damages. This chapter shall not
create liability on the part of the city or any officer or employee thereof for
any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any
administrative decisions lawfully made thereunder.
   (C)   National Flood Insurance Program compliance. This chapter is adopted
to comply with the rules and regulations of the National Flood Insurance
Program codified as 44 C.F.R. parts 59 through 78, as amended, so as to
maintain the community’s eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (D)   Adoption, administration, and enforcement. The floodplain regulations
adopted by the county and found in the County Zoning Ordinance are hereby
adopted by reference to be part of the city’s Zoning Ordinance. The floodplain
regulations on property located in the floodplain within the city, are
administered and enforced by the City's Designated Wetland Conservation Act
Administrator. A permit for any land use must also be approved by the city and
meet the City Zoning Ordinance requirements for the underlying zoning district.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-24-33, passed 12-9-2024)
§ 150.037 OVERLAY DISTRICTS AND DISTRICT PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. To establish and maintain districts that overlay
existing zoning districts to better manage significant areas with specific
needs, such as encouraging growth in areas with existing public facilities or
preserving areas with valued resources and amenities. All sites within an
overlay district shall continue to bear their original zoning, but with the
provisions of the overlay district appended.
   (B)   Boundaries. The boundaries are established based on district-specific
criteria and may not be aligned with roads, lot lines, or other human-made
boundaries. The boundaries are designated on overlay maps. Overlay maps are
considered part of the official zoning map and are therefore approved and
amended following procedures in section.
   (C)   Permits. No subdivision, rezoning, reconstruction, alteration, or
addition shall be made to any existing structure, nor shall any additional
structure be constructed upon a site in any overlay district, except in
accordance with the provisions of the overlay district.
   (D)   Districts. The following overlay districts are hereby established:
   (E)   Supremacy. If a provision of an overlay district conflicts with a
provision or provisions of the underlying zoning district, the more restrictive
provision shall apply.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.038 LAND USE MATRIX.
   (A)   The land use matrix shown in the following table establishes the
allowable, permitted, accessory, conditional, interim, and excluded uses within
the city.
   (B)   All uses are considered prohibited unless specifically allowed in this
code, even if they are not listed specifically under excluded uses.
   (C)   All accessory uses require a permit, unless otherwise indicated.
Use AG RR R-1 R-2 RS P C-1 C-2 I-1
Use                                          AG  RR  R-1  R-2 RS P C-1 C-2 I-1
Abandoned building                           E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Abandoned motor vehicle                      E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Accessory structure                          P   P   P    P   P  P P   P   P
Adult use                                    E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   C
Agricultural structure                       A   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Airport                                      E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Animals, domestic                            A   A   A    A   E  E A   A   A
Animals, wild                                E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Animal clinic (veterinary)/kennels           C   E   E    E   E  E C   P   E
Animal grooming establishment                P   C   C    E   E  E P   P   P
Antenna                                      A   C   P    P   A  A P   A   A
Artist’s studio                            P   A   P    P   E  E P   P   P
Auto salvage yard                            C   P   E    E   E  E E   E   C
Bank/credit union                            E   E   E    E   E  E C   P   E
Banner                                       P   P   P    P   P  P P   P   P
Bed and breakfast                            E   C   C    C   E  E E   E   E
Billboards                                   E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Boat Access                                  E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Boat house                                   E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Brewery                                      E   E   E    E   E  E A   A   E
Brewery with taproom                         E   E   E    E   E  E A   A   A
Campground                                   C   E   E    E   E  C E   C   E
Camping                                      A/P A/P A/P  A/P E  E A/P E   E
Cemetery                                     C   E   E    E   E  P E   E   E
Church                                       C   C   C    C   E  E C   P   E
Commercial use (other, not classified)       E   E   E    E   E  E C   C   P
Community park                               A   A   A    A   E  A A   A   A
Controlled access lot                        E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Conservation subdivision                     P   P   E    E   P  E E   E   E
Conservation subdivision, shoreline          E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Conventional subdivision                     C   C   P    P   C  P P   P   P
Deck                                         P   P   P    P   E  P P   P   P
Dock                                         E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Dwelling, duplex                             E   C   C    P   E  E E   E   E
Dwelling, guest quarters                     P   P   P    P   E  E P   P   E
Dwelling, multi-family                       E   C   E    C   E  E C   E   E
Dwelling, single family                      P   P   P    P   E  E E   E   E
Event center                                 C   E   E    E   E  E A   A   E
Equipment service                            E   E   E    E   E  E P   P   E
Extractive use                               I   E   E    E   E  E E   E   I
Fence                                        A   P   P    P   A  A P   P   A
Fish house                                   A   A   A    A   A  E A   A   A
Food services                                E   E   E    E   E  E P   P   E
Forest land conversion                       E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Garage, attached                             P   P   P    P   E  E P   P   P
Grading                                      P   P   P    P   P  P P   P   P
Group care facilities                        P   P   P    P   E  E E   E   E
Home occupation (see §                      C   C   C    C   E  E E   E   E
150.237)
Hotel                                        E   E   E    E   E  E P   P   E
Industrial use                               E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   P
ISTS                                         P   P   P    P   P  P P   P   P
Junkyard                                     C   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Keeping of chickens                          A   A   P    P   E  E E   E   E
Landfill                                     E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Licensed day care facility                   C   C   C    C   E  E E   E   E
Licensed residential facility                C   C   C    C   E  E E   E   E
Liquor, off-sale                             E   E   E    E   E  E P   P   E
Liquor, on-sale                              E   E   E    E   E  E P   P   E
Livestock                                    A   E*  E    E   E  E E   E   E
Livestock, small                             A   A   E* * E   E  E E   E   E
Logging                                      A   A   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Manufactured home park                       E   C   C    C   E  E E   E   E
Marina                                       E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Medical and dental clinics                   E   E   E    E   E  E C   P   E
Motel                                        E   E   E    E   E  E P   P   E
Nursery                                      C   C   E    E   E  E P   P   E
Nursery, agricultural                        P   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Nursing home                                 C   C   C    C   E  E P   P   E
Off-street parking                           A   A   A    A   A  A A   A   A
Open storage                                 A   A   A    A   A  E A   P   P
Outdoor wood burning furnace (see § 150.240)P   P   C    C   E  E E   E   E
Pasture, cropland, and forestry              A   C   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Patio                                        P   P   P    P   E  P P   P   P
Porch                                        P   P   P    P   E  E P   P   P
Private swimming pool                        A   A   A    A   E  E E   E   E
Professional services                        E   E   E    E   E  E P   P   E
Public use                                   P   P   P    P   P  P P   P   P
Recreational vehicle                         A   A   A    A   A  A A   A   A
Racetrack                                    C   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Resort                                       E   E   E    E   E  E C   C   E
Restaurant                                   E   E   E    E   E  E P   P   E
Retail business                              E   E   E    E   E  E P   P   E
Self-storage facility                        C   E   E    E   E  E C   C   C
Service business                             E   E   E    E   E  E P   P   E
Signs, directory                             A   P   P    P   P  P P   P   P
Signs, offsite                               E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Signs, onsite (see §§
150.054 through                              P   P   P    P   P  P P   P   P
150.056)
Signs, portable                              A   A   A    A   A  A A   A   A
Solar energy system                          P   P   P    P   E  E C   C   P
Solar energy system, ground-mounted          P   P   P    E   E  P C   C   C
Solar energy system, roof-mounted            P   P   P    P   P  P P   P   P
Storage buildings, commercial                C   E   E    E   P  E AC  AC  AC
                                                                   C   C   C
Telecommunication tower                      C   C   E    E   E  C E   C   E
Temporary borrow site                        C   C   E    E   E  E E   C   C
Temporary structure                          A   A   A    A   A  A A   A   A
Vegetation removal, clear cutting            C   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
Vegetation removal, intensive                C   E   E    E   E  E E   E   C
Water-oriented accessory structure or        E   E   E    E   E  E E   E   E
facility
Warehousing, commercial                      C   E   E    E   E  E E   C   C
Warehousing, private                         A   A   A    A   A  E A   A   A
Notes to table:
A -   Allowed without a permit
P -   Permitted
C -   Conditional use
I -   Interim
E -   Excluded
AC - Accessory use
*   Livestock allowed (A) on RR parcels greater than 10 acres.
**   Livestock, small allowed (A) on R-1 parcels greater than 1 acre.
 
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-20-19, passed - -; Ord. O-21-21, passed 5-10-
2021; Ord. O-22-22, passed 10-11-2022; Ord. O-20-20, passed - -; Ord. O-23-30,
passed 9-11-2023; Ord. O-24-36, passed 12-9-2024)
SIGNS
§ 150.050 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of these standards is to protect the general welfare and safety
of the city by providing a policy of aesthetic development to prevent signs
from intruding on the rural and residential character of the city; to provide
adequate signs for direction and property identification purposes; and to
provide adequate and effective signs for commercial use.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-21-21, passed 5-10-2021)
§ 150.051 REQUIRED PERMITS.
   All signs are considered structures and require a zoning permit, except
signs placed by the city, county, or state to relate the laws or ordinances, or
to promote the health, safety, and welfare of the community which are exempt,
and signs exempted in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-21-21, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.052 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   (A)   Temporary signs pertaining only to the construction, sale, or rental
of the premises are allowable, provided they do not exceed nine square feet per
side in any zone and are removed within 30 days of the completion of
construction, sale, or rental.
   (B)   Each parcel shall be allowed, for up to 14 days during any 90-day
period, temporary signs, including banners, streamers, and portable signs for
special events, such as grand openings and promotions, provided they meet the
following.
      (1)   The total cumulative area of all temporary signs shall not exceed
one-half of the area allowed for a permanent sign in said zoning district, as
provided for in §§
150.054 through
150.056.
      (2)   No more than four temporary signs shall be on display at a given
time for each parcel, provided that the total area of the signs conforms to the
provisions of division (B)(1) above.
   (C)   Street identification signs and no hunting or trespassing signs are
allowed without a permit.
   (D)   Temporary signs endorsing a political candidate, party, or issue
during an election season are allowed without a permit. The sign must be
removed within 30 days after the election.
   (E)   Signs in residential, agriculture, and forestry districts, provided
they meet the following standards.
      (1)   Signs shall not be internally or externally lighted but may be
reflective.
      (2)   No sign shall be larger than three square feet, except for a
permitted home occupation, where six square feet is allowed.
      (3)   Only one sign per parcel shall be allowed.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-21-21, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.053 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Non-maintained signs or signs for discontinued business will be
removed after notification by the Zoning Administrator or after discontinuance
of the business.
   (B)   Placement of signs shall consider protecting sight distance at
intersections, driveways, and curves.
   (C)   All flashing, revolving, and intermittently lighted signs, including
all digital displays, and all portable signs, are prohibited, except as
specifically allowed in this section.
   (D)   A non-conforming sign may be refaced, removed, and replaced for
maintenance purposes, however, it shall not be increased in size, the support
system shall not be improved, and the sign shall be removed in its entirety
upon the determination by the Zoning Administrator that the sign is in
disrepair or the support system is failing.
   (E)   Residential and commercial signs may not contain elements commonly
used by highway departments to alert, direct, or caution traffic such as, but
not limited to, octagonal stop signs or speed limit signs.
   (F)   No signs, except for official traffic signs, shall be placed on or
overhang public property, except where specific permission is granted by the
Planning Commission.
   (G)   All signs must be professionally constructed and painted.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-21-21, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.054 ONSITE SIGNS; COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   All signs on a property must be coordinated to create an overall
appearance in regards to size and color.
   (B)   Sign area is calculated as the total area of signage and shall include
all area bound by a rectangle that encompasses the markings that comprise the
sign. For a double-sided, back-to-back, or V-shaped sign, provided the faces
are equal in size, only one side shall count towards the sign area. For a
three-sided sign, all sides shall count toward the sign area.
   (C)   Up to 10% of any principal structure facade area which directly abuts
and lies generally parallel to the road right-of-way or publicly traveled
roadway may be dedicated to signage.
      (1)   The permitted sign area may be split up into several signs or used
for one sign.
      (2)   Any attached sign that protrudes from a structure two feet or less
will be counted as part of the building facade signage.
      (3)   For commercial buildings that are entirely set back more than 100
feet from the edge of the roadway, 15% of the facade area may be covered.
      (4)   Facade area may be transferred from one side to another so long as
the area used as signage never exceeds 10% of the side it is on.
      (5)   No credit is given for facade area not directly abutting and lying
generally parallel to the road right-of-way or to publicly traveled roadway.
   (D)   Each property is allowed one freestanding sign, so long as the sign
can meet setbacks and its placement does not obstruct lines of sight or
pedestrian corridors.
      (1)   On double-sided, back-to-back, or V-shaped freestanding sign,
provided the faces are equal in size, only one side shall count toward the sign
area. A V-shaped sign shall not exceed a 90-degree angle. All sides of a three-
sided freestanding sign shall count toward the sign area.
      (2)   Buildings located in a 45 mph speed zone or higher are allowed up
to 100 square feet of freestanding sign that shall not exceed 15 feet in
height.
      (3)   Buildings located in a less than 45 mph speed zone are allowed up
to 64 square feet of freestanding sign and, for multi-business buildings, are
allowed an additional eight square feet for each business after the first. The
sign may not exceed ten feet in height.
      (4)   For corner lots, one freestanding sign conforming to these
standards is allowed on each roadway.
      (5)   Any attached sign that protrudes from a structure more than two
feet will be considered a freestanding sign.
   (E)   There shall be no signage on accessory structures.
   (F)   Property owners seeking to display more signs than what are allowed in
this section or seeking allowances outside of what is allowed in this section
may obtain permission to do so with the approval of a sign concept plan. The
sign concept plan shall include all existing and proposed signage for the
entire parcel. The Planning Commission shall review the sign concept plan and
base its decision on the following:
      (1)   Necessity of the additional signage;
      (2)   Alternatives to additional signage;
      (3)   Continuity with signage on adjacent parcels;
      (4)   Aesthetic impacts; and
      (5)   Perceived effectiveness of proposed signage.
   (G)   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use signs and
lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject to the following
general standards.
      (1)   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs may be
placed upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety messages may
be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or a permit issued by
the County Sheriff.
      (2)   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore impact zone
if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to convey needed
information. They must only convey the location and name of the establishment
and the general types of goods or services available. The signs must not
contain other detailed information such as product brands and prices, must not
be located higher than eight feet above the ground, and must not exceed ten
square feet in size.
      (3)   Other outside lighting may be located within the shore impact zone
or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate potential safety
hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent illumination out
across public waters. This does not preclude use of navigational lights.
   (H)   Dynamic displays, including displays used for advertising the price of
gasoline: Any sign using a dynamic display, in whole or in part, must meet the
following operational standards.
      (1)   Dynamic displays on a property located in a 45 mph or greater speed
zone shall not exceed 100 square feet. Only one side of a double-sided, back-
to-back, or V-shaped, provided the faces are equal in size, only side shall
count toward the cumulative amount of signage allowed. A V-shaped sign shall
not exceed a 90-degree angle. All sides of a V-shape or three-sided sign shall
count toward the cumulative area of signage. Dynamic displays on a property
located in a less than 45 mph speed zone shall not exceed 64 square feet. Only
one side of a double-sided, back-to-back, or V-shaped, provided the faces are
equal in size, only side shall count toward the cumulative amount of signage
allowed. A V-shaped sign shall not exceed a 90-degree angle. All sides of a V-
shape or three-sided sign shall count toward the cumulative area of signage.
      (2)   The dynamic display sign must be located at least 100 feet from any
property where there are structures used for residential purposes.
      (3)   The foil sign image or any portion thereof must have a minimum
duration of ten seconds and must be a static display. No portion of the image
may flash, scroll, twirl, change color, or in any manner imitate movement.
      (4)   No sign with dynamic display may exceed a maximum illumination of
three-tenths of a foot candle above ambient light level as measured from 50
feet from the sign’s face. All signs with dynamic display having illumination
by means other than natural light must be equipped with an automatic dimmer
control or other mechanism that automatically controls the sign’s brightness to
comply with this requirement. No sign with dynamic display may be of such
intensity or brilliance that it interferes with the effectiveness of an
official traffic sign, device, signal, or the safety of the public, or located
where it would do so as determined by the City Traffic Engineer. If there is a
violation of the brightness standards, the adjustment must be made within one
business day upon notice of non-compliance from the city.
      (5)   Electronic graphic display signs must have an automatic dimmer
control to produce a distinct illumination change from a higher illumination
level to a lower level for the time period between a half-hour before sunset
and a half-hour after sunrise.
      (6)   No portion of any dynamic display sign may fluctuate in light
intensity or use intermittent, strobe, or moving light, or light that changes
in intensity in sudden transitory bursts, streams, zooms, twinkles, sparkles,
or in any manner that creates the illusion of movement.
      (7)   Signs with dynamic display must be designed and equipped to freeze
the sign face in one position if a malfunction occurs. Signs with dynamic
display must also be equipped with a means to immediately discontinue the
display if it malfunctions, and the sign owner or operator must immediately
turn off the display when notified by the city that it is not complying with
the standards of this subchapter.
      (8)   Transition from one static display to another must be instantaneous
without the use of special effects, not limited to fading, moving, or blinking.
Changes in content must be accomplished in one second or less.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-21-21, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.055 ONSITE SIGNS; DIRECTORY SIGNS.
   To facilitate economic growth and reduce the overall amount of signage
within the city, the city may, at its discretion, establish directory signs in
any zone. Directory signs should be in lieu of other signage, such as an
existing offsite sign or signage provided by the State Department of
Transportation.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-21-21, passed 5-10-2021)
§ 150.056 ONSITE SIGNS; RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Area identification signs are permitted by conditional use permit in
residential districts, including Rural Residential, Single Family Residential,
Urban Residential, and Residential Storage, and must meet the following
criteria:
      (1)   The size of the sign shall not exceed 32 square feet in area.
      (2)   The sign shall not exceed eight feet in height, as measured from
the existing ground elevation to the top of the sign. Any landscaping, grading,
structure, or other material that raises the level of the existing elevation of
the ground shall be included in the height of the sign.
      (3)   Any such sign shall be erected only on a corner lot at the
intersection of local or collector streets with collector or arterial roadways
and only on property that is a part of the residential development identified
herein.
      (4)   The sign shall be located on private property at the required
setbacks for the zoning district, as detailed in this subchapter. Placement of
the sign shall include consideration for the maintenance of appropriate sight
lines at the intersection and shall not constitute an obstruction to traffic in
the area.
      (5)   The sign shall include a landscaping plan to be installed and
continually maintained by the owner of the property on which the sign is
located, pursuant to the requirements of this section.
      (6)   No more than one sign per entrance to the development shall be
allowed, with each sign meeting the provisions contained herein.
      (7)   Any lighting of the sign shall be external, downward directional,
and hooded so as to prevent glare and to maintain the character of the
neighborhood.
   (B)   Property owners seeking to display more signs than what are allowed in
this section or seeking allowances outside of what is allowed in this section
may obtain permission to do so with the approval of a sign concept plan. The
sign concept plan shall contain all existing and proposed signage for the
entire parcel. Property owners within 350 feet of the subject property shall be
notified by regular mail of the sign concept plan in question. The Planning
Commission shall review the sign concept plan and base its decision on the
following:
      (1)   Necessity of the additional signage;
      (2)   Alternatives to additional signage;
      (3)   Continuity with signage on adjacent parcels;
      (4)   Aesthetic impacts; and
      (5)   Perceived effectiveness of proposed signage.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-21-21, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.057 OFFSITE SIGNS.
   Offsite signs are prohibited, except for residential or commercial directory
signs. Any existing offsite signs are considered non-conforming structures.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-21-21, passed 5-10-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
NUISANCE STANDARDS
§ 150.070 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Every use permitted by this chapter shall be so established and maintained
as to comply with the provisions of this subchapter. The Planning Commission
may require the complaining party to provide such tests or investigations by an
independent testing organization satisfactory to the Planning Commission as are
necessary to show non-compliance with these standards. The entire cost of such
investigations and tests shall be paid for by the complaining party unless the
results disclose non-compliance with these standards; in that event, the entire
cost shall be borne by the owner or operator. This provision does not preclude
the city from making any investigations and tests it finds appropriate to
determine compliance with these standards.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.071 NUISANCES DECLARED.
   The following are declared to be nuisances affecting public peace and safety
and shall not be allowed on any property within the city:
   (A)   Accumulations in the open of discarded or disused machinery, household
appliances, automobile bodies, tires, miscellaneous junk, or other material, in
a manner conducive to the harboring of mosquitoes, rats, mice, snakes, or
vermin, or the rank growth of vegetation among the items so accumulated or in a
manner creating fire, health, or other safety hazards from such accumulation;
   (B)   Any abandoned or junk vehicle as defined in Minnesota Statutes; and
   (C)   All other conditions or things which are likely to cause or to pose an
unreasonable threat of injury to the person or property of anyone.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.072 NOISE.
   (A)   Noise shall be measured on any property line of the tract on which the
source of the noise is located. Noise shall be muffled so as not to become
objectionable due to intermittence, beat frequency, shrillness, or intensity.
At the property line of the tract on which the source of noise is located, the
sound pressure level of noise radiated shall not exceed the following limits
measured for 10% (L10) and 50% (L50) of a one hour-period, using a sound level
meter as authorized by the City Council.
   (B)   In addition, no persons shall make, or cause to be made, any impulsive
and loudly audible noise that injures or endangers comfort, repose, health,
peace, safety, or welfare of any persons or precludes their enjoyment of
property or affects their property value.
 
Adjoining Property Zone - Time
                            Day, 7:00 a.m. -  Night, 10:00 p.m. -
                            10:00 p.m.        7:00 a.m.
                            L10 L50           L10 L50
Decibels, commercial zones  65  60            65  60
Decibels, residential zones 60  55            50  45
 
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-23-25, passed 5-8-2023) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.073 ODOR.
   No use shall cause the discharge of toxic, noxious, or odorous matter beyond
the limits of the site where it is located in such concentrations as to be
obnoxious or otherwise detrimental to the public health, safety, comfort, or
welfare, or cause injury to property or business.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.074 GLARE.
   Direct or reflected glare, such as from floodlights, spotlights, or high
temperature process, and as differentiated from general illumination, shall not
be visible beyond the sight of origin at any property line. Any lights used for
exterior illumination shall be hooded or controlled in some manner so as not to
light adjacent property. Bare incandescent light bulbs shall not be permitted
where in view of adjacent property or public right-of-way. Except for public
street lights, any light or combination of lights which cast light on a public
street shall not exceed one foot-candle as measured from the property line of
said street. Any light or combination of lights which cast light on residential
property shall not exceed one foot-candle as measured from the property line of
said property.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.075 SMOKE.
   The emission of smoke by any use shall be in compliance with and regulated
by the State Pollution Control Standards, Minnesota Regulations APC 7017. Open
burning shall require a DNR burning permit.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.076 DUST AND OTHER PARTICULATE MATTER.
   The emission of dust, fly ash, or other particulate matter by any use shall
be in compliance with and regulated by the State Pollution Control Standards,
Minnesota Regulation APC 7011.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.077 FUMES OR GASES.
   Fumes or gases shall not be emitted at any point in concentrations that are
noxious, toxic, or corrosive. The values given in Table I (Industrial Hygiene
Standards - Maximum Allowable Concentration for eight hour day, five days per
week), Table III (Odor Thresholds), Table IV (Concentrations of Substances
Causing Pain in the Eyes), and Table V (Exposure to Substances Causing Damage
to Vegetation) in the latest revision of Chapter Five, “Physiological Effects”
that contains such tables, in the Air Pollution Abatement Manual published by
the Manufacturing Chemists’ Association, Inc., Washington D.C., are hereby
established as guides for the determination of permissible concentration and
amounts. The city may require detailed plans for the elimination of fumes or
gases before the issuance of a zoning permit.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.078 FIRE HAZARDS.
   Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or explosive
materials shall be protected by adequate fire-fighting and fire prevention
equipment and by such safety devices as are normally used in the handling of
such materials. Such hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent activities to
a distance that is compatible with the potential danger involved.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.079 WASTES.
   (A)   All waste generated shall be disposed of in a manner consistent with
all State Pollution Control Agency rules.
   (B)   Any accumulation of waste generated on any premises not stored in
containers which comply with State Pollution Control Agency rules, or any
accumulation of mixed solid waste generated on any premises which has remained
thereon for more than one week, or any accumulation of infectious, nuclear,
pathological, or hazardous waste which is not stored or disposed in a manner
consistent with State Pollution Control Agency rules, is a nuisance and may be
abated, and the cost of abatement may be addressed against the property where
the nuisance is found.
   (C)   The accumulation, storage, processing, and disposal of waste on any
premises, which is not generated on that premises, is prohibited, except as
specifically provided in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.080 AIR POLLUTION.
   Every activity shall conform to state regulations relating to air quality
standards and air pollution control.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.081 EROSION AND DRAINAGE.
   (A)   No land shall be developed and no use shall be permitted that results
in water runoff causing flooding, erosion, or deposit of sediment on adjacent
properties.
   (B)   All storm sewer inlets and drainage ways that are functioning during
construction shall be protected so that sediment laden water does not enter the
conveyance system without first being filtered or otherwise treated to remove
sediment.
   (C)   All onsite stormwater conveyance systems must be designed and
constructed to withstand the design volume of stormwater with appropriate
stabilization to prevent scour and erosion. Erosion controls must be provided
at the outlets of all storm sewer pipes or drainage ways.
   (D)   All temporary and permanent erosion and sediment control practices
shall be maintained and repaired to assure the continued performance of their
intended function.
   (E)   All disturbed ground left inactive for seven or more days shall be
stabilized by seeding or sodding, or by mulching or covering, or other
equivalent control measure.
   (F)   All temporary erosion control devices, including silt fence, gravel,
hay bales, or other measures shall be removed from the construction site and
properly disposed of or recycled. This removal and disposal must occur within
60 days of the establishment of permanent vegetative cover on the disturbed
area.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.082 RADIOACTIVITY OR ELECTRICAL DISTURBANCE.
   No activity shall emit dangerous radioactivity at any point or any
electrical disturbance adversely affecting the operation of any equipment at
any point other than that of the creator of such disturbance. Adverse effects
shall be measured by FCC standards.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.083 FERTILIZERS, HERBICIDES, AND PESTICIDES.
    No person shall place, spread, or store fertilizers, herbicides, and/or
pesticides in any manner other than that recommended by the manufacturer or in
any manner which allows any escape of nutrients or toxins into the air,
groundwater, or surface water of the city.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.084 ABANDONED BUILDINGS.
   No person shall allow a building, mobile home/manufactured house, or other
structure to be abandoned, deteriorated, or a safety hazard. All abandoned,
deteriorated, or unsafe structures shall be removed. If the owner fails to
remove the structure, the city shall do so and assess the cost against the
property through the county taxation method.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 150.100 FENCES.
   (A)   Safety hazards. Fences shall not be erected where they create a visual
safety hazard in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator. Fences shall not be
electrified or contain barbed wire, except in areas where contact with the
general public is not anticipated or with the permission of the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   Location and orientation.
      (1)   All boundary line fences shall be entirely located upon the
property of the person constructing such fence with a two-foot minimum setback,
unless adjoining property owner agrees, in writing, that such fence can be
erected on the division line of the respective properties or a certificate of
survey is performed.
      (2)   Under no circumstances shall a fence be constructed closer than ten
feet from the surface of a public road and in all cases not within the public
right-of-way.
      (3)   Fences may not be placed within a shore or bluff impact zone.
   (C)   Construction. The “good side” of the fence shall face abutting
properties, meaning that the posts shall face in toward the property on which
the fence sits, and the finished face of the fence shall face abutting
properties.
   (D)   Height. Fences not exceeding 96 inches in height may be constructed.
   (E)   Maintenance. Fences shall be maintained to retain their aesthetic
quality, screening abilities, and function. Missing boards, rusting wire and
posts, and peeling paint shall be taken care of at the owner’s expense as they
occur.
   (F)   Fence materials. Every fence shall be constructed in a substantial,
workmanlike manner and of material reasonable suited for the purpose for which
the fence is proposed to be used. Electric fences and fences made of materials
such as hog wire, barbed wire, or snow fencing may not be used as a boundary
fence in the residential districts.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-20-19, passed - -; Ord. O-22-23, passed 10-11-
2022) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.101 PROPERTY AND STRUCTURE MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All structures shall be properly maintained in a clean and acceptable
manner so as not to constitute a menace to the public health, safety,
convenience, general welfare, property values, and aesthetics.
   (B)   All landscaping shall be properly maintained so as to preserve
planting in a live state and free of noxious weeds.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.102 DRIVEWAY AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Permit required. No person shall construct, or reconstruct, or make
any substantial alteration of any driveway access to any city street rights-of-
way without first obtaining a permit from the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning
Administrator may issue the permit upon recommendations by the Public Works
Department and upon payment of a fee as established by City Council ordinance.
   (B)   Access control.
      (1)   Residential districts. One access driveway shall be allowed for
each parcel of land two acres or less. Parcels of land in excess of two acres
shall be allowed one access driveway for each 200 feet of frontage located
along the front lot line on a public right-of-way, and allowed one shared
access to not more than two lots not fronting on a public right-of-way. Corner
lots are allowed one additional access driveway; this driveway must be placed
on a local street. Corner lots with frontage along local streets may place
driveway accesses on either the front or side lots lines as long as spacing
requirements identified in division (C) below are met.
      (2)   Commercial and industrial. Driveways in all commercial and
industrial areas shall be subject to individual review and approval by the city
in order to avoid congestion and safety hazards.
      (3)   Generally. All driveways shall access local streets unless
otherwise permitted by the City Council.
   (C)   Spacing. In no case shall any driveway be closer to a street
intersection or private shared drive intersection than as follows: 75 feet in
Rural Residential or Agricultural Districts and 35 feet in the Single Family
Residential and Urban Residential Districts.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.103 STORAGE.
   (A)   Exterior storage.
      (1)   There shall be no exterior storage allowed on lots that do not
contain a principal or accessory structure.
      (2)   Where there is a principal or accessory structure, all materials
and equipment shall be stored within a building or fully screened so as not to
be visible from adjoining properties, except for the following: laundry drying,
licensed recreational equipment, construction landscaping materials and
equipment currently being used for construction of the premises, woodpiles,
agricultural equipment and materials if these are used or intended for use on
the premises, off-street parking, except as otherwise regulated herein.
      (3)   No more than two fish houses and one recreational vehicle are
permissible if they are currently licensed. Fish houses and recreational
vehicles must be stored at least ten feet distance from any property line and
outside of the OHW setback.
      (4)   Abandoned motor vehicles shall be stored within a structure or
completely screened from view from adjacent properties and right-of-way.
   (B)   Bulk storage. All uses associated with the bulk storage of oil,
gasoline, liquid propane, liquid fertilizer, chemicals, and similar liquids
shall comply with the requirements of the State Fire Marshal, the State
Pollution Control Agency, and State Department of Agriculture. When in excess
of normal domestic allowances, the property owner shall have documents from
those offices stating that the use is in compliance. No storage facility shall
be constructed or placed where spillage from the facility would drain to a
drainage way or public waters without providing complete containment.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.104 VISUAL STANDARDS; SCREENING.
   (A)   General. No use shall create, maintain, or continue any activity or
structure which has a strong negative visual impact or offends the morals or
violates the standards of the city.
   (B)   Standards. Screening requirements for each district are contained in
§§
150.025 through
150.038.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.105 SANITATION STANDARDS.
   (A)   Solid waste. All solid waste shall be disposed of in accordance with
the standards of the county.
   (B)   Domestic sewage.
      (1)   All plumbing shall discharge into a municipal sanitary system if
available.
      (2)   All designs shall be submitted on the county’s forms.
      (3)   All dwellings or structures with plumbing shall be served by an
individual or common sewage disposal system meeting the requirements of Minn.
Rules Chapters 7080 through 7083, as amended from time to time, and the
county’s “Subsurface Sewage Treatment Systems - Technical Standards and
Criteria,” as amended.
      (4)   All non-conforming systems shall be brought into conformance.
      (5)   Sewage tanks being abandoned shall be thoroughly pumped and filled
with soil.
      (6)   All owners of individual sewage treatment systems shall have the
system inspected once each five years by a certified sewage system inspector.
         (a)   The person inspecting the system shall examine the septic tank
and determine the need for pumping in accordance with Minn. Rules Chapters 7080
through 7083, as amended from time to time.
         (b)   The person inspecting the system shall provide to the city a
statement that the system appears to be in good working order, or specifying
any defects discovered and the date such defects were/will be corrected. The
form shall also indicate if the septic tank was pumped.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator shall maintain a file by legal
description and shall notify any delinquent property owner when six months have
elapsed beyond the required five-year period.
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator, or assistant, shall have the authority
to verify the inspections and/or conduct inspections on behalf of the city.
   (C)   Water supply.
      (1)   All potable water systems shall be connected to a municipal water
supply, if made available.
      (2)   All domestic and agricultural wells shall conform to the State
Department of Health Standards for wells.
      (3)   All water systems shall meet the requirements of the State
Department of Health Standards for water systems.
      (4)   All wells being abandoned shall be sealed according to State
Department of Health Standards and report to the State Department of Health and
the city.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.106 ANIMAL HUSBANDRY.
   (A)   Pets.
      (1)   Pets shall be properly cared for, shall not be allowed to create
problems for neighbors or the city, or become a nuisance, and shall have
sanitary standards maintained consistent with §
150.105(B).
      (2)   Property owners shall be responsible for management and proper
disposal of animal waste per Minn. Rules part 7020.2225, as may be amended from
time to time. Property owner shall adhere to M.S. § 343.21, as may be amended
from time to time, on the treatment of animals. Property owner shall adhere to
M.S. Chapter 344, as may be amended from time to time, relating to partition
fences. Property owner must comply with all regulations imposed by the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) relating to the keeping of livestock
or domestic farm animals, and such regulations shall be considered the minimum
safeguard necessary to prevent pollution of natural sensitive areas or the
creation of a health hazard.
   (B)   Wild animals.
      (1)   The keeping of wild animals as pets, including, but not limited to,
primates and large carnivores, is not allowed.
      (2)   Wildlife rehabilitation uses shall require a conditional use permit
and must meet the minimum standards established by the State Department of
Natural Resources Rules Chapter 6244.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-24-35, passed 12-9-2024) Penalty, see §  
150.999
§ 150.107 VEGETATION REMOVAL.
   Removal or alteration of vegetation, except for agricultural and forest
management uses as regulated in §§
150.025 through
150.038, is allowed, subject to the following standards.
   (A)   No vegetation shall be removed along the shoreline, within shore
impact zones, on steep slopes, and within bluff impact zones, except in
conjunction with an approved site preparation or land alteration permit to
accommodate the placement of stairways, landings, access paths, or authorized
shoreland alterations.
   (B)   Except within bluff impact zones and steep slopes, between the shore
impact zone and the building setback line, the removal of 25% of trees and 100%
of shrubs is allowed. Pruning and limbing of trees is allowed to provide a view
to the water from the principal dwelling site and to accommodate the placement
of stairways, landings, or access paths.
   (C)   All vegetative alterations are subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   The cutting is not done in any contiguous strip or row over 12 feet
wide from the OHW to the structure setback.
      (2)   The screening of structures, vehicles, or other facilities as
viewed from the water, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, is not
substantially reduced.
      (3)   Along rivers, existing shading of water surfaces is preserved.
      (4)   All cutting is done by hand, without the use of heavy machinery,
and topsoil is not disturbed.
      (5)   Erosion and stormwater control plans must be approved by the County
Soil and Water Conservation District. A silt fence or other sediment control
measures meeting SWCD standards must be properly installed between the project
area and the lake or river before any construction begins and must remain in
place until all permanent erosion control measures are in place.
   (D)   Diseased or dead trees that pose a hazard shall be removed immediately
and disposed of and replaced with native tree species.
   (E)   Intensive vegetative clearing is allowed behind the structure setback.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.108 PARKING.
   (A)   General. Onsite parking or garage space shall be provided in all
districts, except as specifically exempted. There shall be adequate drive
access to prevent the need to back onto collector streets or county highways.
Onsite parking spaces shall not be used for storage.
   (B)   Dimensions. Parking sites shall be a minimum of 20 feet long and ten
feet wide.
   (C)   Parking ratios. Adequate parking shall be required, with the following
standards to be guidelines subject to site specific review by the Planning
Commission:
      (1)   Dwelling: two parking spaces for each unit;
      (2)   Multiple dwellings: one and one-half spaces per dwelling unit;
      (3)   Tourist accommodations: one and one-half parking spaces for each
room or unit;
      (4)   Senior and/or physically handicapped housing: one space per
dwelling unit;
      (5)   Business and professional offices: one space for each 300 square
feet of gross floor area;
      (6)   Medical and dental clinics: two spaces per examining room plus one
space for each employee;
      (7)   Schools: one space per seven students and one space for each two
employees;
      (8)   Hospital/nursing homes: one space for every three beds plus one
space for each two employees;
      (9)   Retail stores: one space for each 100 square feet of gross floor
area;
      (10)   Furniture and appliance stores, household equipment, carpet sales,
furniture repair shop, or antique shop: one space for each 400 square feet of
gross floor area;
      (11)   Theater, stadium, auditorium, church, or other places of public
assembly: one parking space for each three seats, based on maximum seating
capacity;
      (12)   Office building: one parking space for each 300 square feet of
office floor area;
      (13)   Funeral homes: one space for each four seats, based on maximum
capacity;
      (14)   Eating and drinking establishments: one parking space for each of
three seats, based upon maximum seating capacity;
      (15)   Industrial, manufacturing, or wholesale establishments: one
parking space for each two workers, based on peak employment and adequate space
for loading and unloading all vehicles used incidental to the operation of the
industrial or manufacturing establishment or one space for each 2,000 square
feet of gross floor area, whichever is larger;
      (16)   Other uses not described: as determined by the Planning and Zoning
Commission and City Council;
      (17)   Onsite parking shall not be closer than ten feet from a lot line,
except in the DMU District;
      (18)   All parking areas shall be adequately drained to a pervious
surface designed to allow entrapment of silts and nutrients prior to discharge
to a public water;
      (19)   More than five parking stalls contiguously located and any
commercial parking adjacent to residential shall be landscaped according to a
plan approved by the Zoning Administrator with review by the Planning
Commission;
      (20)   Any lighting used to illuminate off-street parking areas shall be
directed away from residential properties in such a way as to not interfere
with residential use. Lighting will be designed to eliminate glare from
adjacent roadways to ensure safe vehicular traffic; and
      (21)   All required loading berths shall be off-street and shall be
located on the same lot as the principal use served. Loading shall not occupy
front yard space. Berths shall not be used for storage.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.109 LOADING AND UNLOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   There shall be adequate loading and unloading areas established for each
property based on the use. It shall be the property owner’s responsibility to
ensure that his, her, or their loading and unloading operations do not
interfere with the flow of traffic, create a nuisance, or pose a safety hazard.
Operations are subject to review by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.110 DRAINAGE.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   When possible, existing natural drainage ways, wetlands, and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter, and retain
stormwater runoff before discharge to public waters.
      (2)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential,
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and
protected as soon as possible, and facilities and methods used to retain
sediment on the site.
      (3)   When development density, topographic features, and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle stormwater runoff
using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed facilities
such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes, waterways, and
ponds must be used. Preference must be given to designs using surface drainage,
vegetation, and infiltration rather than buried pipes and human-made materials
and facilities.
   (B)   Natural drainage. All development shall provide for the continuance of
natural drainage ways, and structures shall be so constructed as to be one foot
above the water level in the drainage way created by a storm of a 100-year
return period or a 1% chance of occurrence.
   (C)   Drainage storage areas. The use of natural or human-made stormwater
storage areas is encouraged. These areas should be vegetated and designed to
naturally lower after a storm.
   (D)   Filling. No filling of areas inundated by the 100-year, 24-hour storm
along drainage ways shall be allowed, except by conditional use permit.
   (E)   Impervious areas. All parking areas, heavy soil areas, storage areas,
and impervious areas shall be designed to allow entrapment of silts and
nutrients prior to discharge to a natural drainage way or public water.
   (F)   Public waters. Newly constructed stormwater outfalls to public waters
must provide for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of
surface debris before discharge.
   (G)   Erosion. Erosion control measures shall be provided in all areas
disturbed during any grading or construction. All areas disturbed shall be
covered with topsoils and seeded. Areas subject to concentrated runoff or
steeper than three-to-one shall be sodded, planted with appropriate deep-rooted
vegetation, or protected with an appropriate mulch cover as directed by the
City Engineer.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.111 GRADING.
   (A)   General. The following activities must be authorized by permit, except
for excavation for permitted structures, drives, sewer systems, and parking
areas:
      (1)   Grading and filling in the shore or bluff impact zone;
      (2)   Grading and filling of wetlands;
      (3)   Grading in the bed of public waters;
      (4)   Any alterations of the natural topography when the slope of the
land is toward a public water or watercourse involving the movement of more
than ten cubic yards of material in a bluff or shore impact zone, or more than
50 cubic yards of material anywhere else within a shoreland area; and
      (5)   Any alteration outside of the shoreland area where the amount of
grading exceeds 500 cubic yards.
   (B)   Conditions. The following conditions shall apply.
      (1)   The smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for as short a time
as feasible.
      (2)   Four inches of topsoil is placed, temporary ground cover such as
mulch is used, and permanent ground cover such as sod is planted.
      (3)   Methods to prevent erosion and trap sediment are employed.
      (4)   Fill is stabilized to acceptable engineering standards and must not
create an unstable slope.
      (5)   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes must be
reviewed by a qualified professional for continued slope stability and must not
create finished slopes of 30% or greater.
      (6)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff impact
zones.
      (7)   Fill placed in a public water below the ordinary high water line
requires a DNR waters permit and a Corps of Engineers permit.
      (8)   Excavation in the bed of public waters requires a DNR waters permit
and a Corps of Engineers permit.
      (9)   Only clean fill consisting of sand, gravel, or rock will be allowed
where contact with water is anticipated. Mineral soil may be allowed elsewhere.
      (10)   Alterations to topography must only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties.
   (C)   Wetlands. Grading or filling in any protected wetland is prohibited
unless authorized by federal, state, county, and local permitting agencies.
   (D)   Public waters. Connections to public waters of boat slips, canals,
lagoons, harbors, and similar inland excavations are prohibited.
   (E)   Roads, driveways, and parking areas. Public and private roads,
driveways, and parking areas must be designed to take advantage of natural
vegetation and topography to achieve maximum screening from public waters.
      (1)   Roads, driveways, and parking areas shall meet structure setbacks
and shall not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones, when other
reasonable and feasible placement alternatives exist. If no alternatives exist,
they may be placed within these areas, and shall be designed to minimize
adverse impacts.
      (2)   Private watercraft access ramps, approach roads, and access-related
parking areas are prohibited on lakes with public access or more than one
privately-owned but public access. On lakes with no public access, private
watercraft access ramps, approach roads, and access-related parking areas may
be placed by permit within shore impact zones, provided the vegetative
screening and erosion control conditions of this division (E) are met.
   (F)   Ice ridges. If ice ridges occur annually, the property owner may
restore the shoreline every year. Removal or grading of an ice ridge must not
disturb emergent aquatic vegetation, unless authorized by an aquatic plant
management permit from the DNR’s Division of Fisheries. Restoration shall be
permitted only where:
      (1)   The ice ridge resulted from ice action within the last year;
      (2)   The total length of shoreline zone to be affected does not exceed
50 feet;
      (3)   All ice ridge material that is composed of muck, clay, or organic
sediment is deposited and stabilized at an upland site above the ordinary high
water level of any public water;
      (4)   All ice ridge material that is composed of sand or gravel is
removed or graded to conform to the original cross-section and alignment of the
lakebed, with a finished surface at or below the ordinary high water level;
      (5)   No additional excavation or placement of fill material occurs on
the site; and
      (6)   All exposed areas are immediately stabilized as needed to prevent
erosion and sedimentation.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.112 CAMPING.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   All recreational vehicles must be designed to operate on state
roads without a special permit and must have a current license.
      (2)   No camping unit may be permanently placed or skirted.
      (3)   All camping units must be able to be moved readily.
      (4)   Camping units must meet dwelling setback requirements.
      (5)   Prior to placing a camping unit, the occupant must have the
permission of the property owner. The permission must be written when the
property owner is not available onsite.
   (B)   Properties with principal structures.
      (1)   There shall be a maximum of two units allowed at any one time.
      (2)   No individual camping unit may be placed for use longer than 14
days within any 60 days.
      (3)   One camping unit may be allowed in outside storage. That unit may
be stored year round.
   (C)   Properties without principal structures.
      (1)   There shall be a maximum of two units allowed at any one time.
      (2)   Each individual camping unit is allowed for 14 days in any one
calendar year without a permit.
      (3)   A permit is required for camping units established for more than 14
days in any one calendar year. The maximum time an individual unit can be
established is nine months in any one calendar year.
      (4)   One permit per parcel per calendar year is allowed.
      (5)   A permit for a camping unit requires installation of a permanent
sewage treatment system.
   (D)   Properties where a principal structure is being constructed.
      (1)   Camping units are allowed in conjunction with a land use permit for
construction of a principal structure.
      (2)   Camping units are allowed up to 12 months during construction, with
extension for an additional 12 months in conjunction with extension of a zoning
permit.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.113 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS (SES).
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The city finds that other communities are
addressing the use and development of renewable energy systems, believing them
to enhance energy conservation efforts with limited adverse impact on nearby
properties. The city finds that it may be in the public interest to encourage
the use and development of such renewable energy systems; to support the use of
solar energy collection systems and the development of solar energy farms; and
that the development of solar energy farms could be balanced with the
protection of the public health, safety and welfare. Accordingly, the city
resolves that the following standards shall be adopted to address applications
for solar energy systems and solar energy farms to be constructed within the
city.
      (1)   Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall be allowed as a permitted
accessory use in all zoning districts in accordance with the standards in this
section and all ground-mounted solar energy systems shall be considered by
conditional use permit.
      (2)   The following systems shall be exempt from the requirements of this
section and shall be regulated as any other building element:
         (a)   Building-integrated solar energy systems that are an integral
part of a principal or accessory building, rather than a separate mechanical
device, replacing or substituting for an architectural element or structural
component including, but not limited to, photovoltaic or hot water solar energy
systems contained within roofing materials, windows, skylights, and awnings;
and
         (b)   Passive solar energy systems that capture solar light or heat
without transforming it into another form of energy or transferring the heat
via a heat exchanger.
   (B)   System standards.
      (1)   Electrical.
         (a)   All utilities shall be installed underground for ground-mounted
systems.
         (b)   An exterior utility disconnect switch shall be installed at the
electric meter serving the property.
         (c)   Solar energy systems shall be grounded to protect against
natural lightning strikes in conformance with the National Electrical Code.
         (d)   No solar energy system shall be interconnected with a local
electrical utility company until the utility company has reviewed and commented
upon it. The interconnection of the solar energy system with the utility
company shall adhere to the National Electrical Code.
      (2)   Maximum area. Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall be limited
to the total impervious surface restrictions for the lot, per zoning district
requirements.
      (3)   Color. All roof-mounted solar energy systems shall use colors that
are the same or similar with the color of the roof material of the building on
which the system is mounted.
   (C)   Location and setbacks. Solar energy system must meet the accessory
structure setback for the zoning district in which the system is located.
      (1)   Roof-mounting.
         (a)   The solar energy system shall comply with the maximum height
requirements of the applicable zoning district.
         (b)   In addition to the building setback, the collector surface and
mounting devices for roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not extend beyond
the exterior perimeter of the building on which the system is mounted or built,
unless the collector and mounting system has been explicitly engineered to
safely extend beyond the edge, and setback standards are not violated. Exterior
piping for solar hot water systems shall be allowed to extend beyond the
perimeter of the building on a side yard exposure. A conditional use permit is
required for any solar array that exceeds the square footage of the roof, in
any zoning district.
      (2)   Ground-mounting.
         (a)   The solar energy system shall only be located in the rear yard
as defined by this chapter.
         (b)   All components of the solar energy system shall meet the setback
requirements of the zoning district.
         (c)   Solar energy systems shall not encroach upon drainage and
utility easements.
         (d)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems may not extend into the
side-yard or rear setback when oriented at minimum design tilt.
   (D)   Screening. Solar energy systems shall be screened in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter to the extent possible without affecting their
function.
   (E)   Certification.
      (1)   Roof-mounted. Prior to permit issuance, the property owner shall
provide documentation from a licensed contractor, building inspector, licensed
electrician, or electrical engineer that, at a minimum, the following:
         (a)   Certification that the electrical wiring and solar energy system
meets all applicable national, state, and county electrical and building codes;
         (b)   Certification that the building roof condition is adequate for,
and structural integrity will not be compromised by, the solar energy system
being installed.
      (2)   Ground-mounted. Prior to permit issuance, the property owner shall
provide documentation from a licensed contractor, building inspector, licensed
electrician, or electrical engineer that, at a minimum, the following:
Certification that the electrical wiring and solar energy system meets all
applicable national, state, and county-adopted electrical and building codes.
   (F)   Abandonment. Any solar energy system which is inoperable for 12
successive months shall be
deemed to be abandoned and shall be deemed a public nuisance. The owner shall
remove the abandoned system at their expense after obtaining a demolition
permit.
   (G)   Permit.
      (1)   A land use permit shall be obtained for any solar energy system
prior to installation.
      (2)   Permit issuance shall be authorized by the Planning and Zoning
Administrator or their designee, or at their discretion, may require approval
by the Planning Commission.
   (H)   Height. Solar energy systems must meet the following height
requirements:
      (1)   Roof-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed the maximum
allowed height in any zoning district.
      (2)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 20 feet in
height when oriented at maximum tilt.
   (I)   Visibility. Solar energy systems shall be designed to blend into the
architecture of the building or be screened from routine view from public
right-of-ways other than alleys.
(Ord. O-24-34, passed 12-9-2024) Penalty, see §
150.999
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
§ 150.125 GENERAL.
   (A)   Planned unit development (PUD) requires the assistance of professional
planning and usually involves the approval of multiple agencies or other
governmental bodies. Where circumstances are favorable, PUDs provide more
latitude in land use than normal development to allow for planning, clustering
facilities, consolidating green spaces and internal recreation amenities. While
densities higher than normal are often allowed, they must be justified by the
preservation and consolidation of green space, increased screening and
landscaping, increased recreational amenities, and other significant
improvements and design features beneficial to the residents, neighbors, and
the general public.
   (B)   Mixed use PUD, where appropriate, may be allowed, provided the use not
normally allowed in the zoning district does not exceed 35% of the building
floor area.
   (C)   Provisions of each zoning district shall govern within that district,
except where specifically addressed in this section.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.126 SUITABILITY.
   The city must consider the following criteria in the examination of a parcel
for suitability as a PUD:
   (A)   Existing recreational use of the surface waters and likely increases
in use associated with planned unit developments;
   (B)   Physical and aesthetic impacts of increased density;
   (C)   Suitability of lands for the planned unit development approach;
   (D)   Level of current development in the area;
   (E)   Amounts and types of ownership of undeveloped lands; and
   (F)   Size of the parcel and amount, if any, of shoreline.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.127 DESIGN CRITERIA FOR NEW PUDS.
   (A)   Minimum size. A planned unit development shall contain a minimum of
three units or sites.
   (B)   Buffer. A 50-foot vegetative buffer will be maintained or established
along the boundary of the PUD. There shall be no units or impervious coverage
within this buffer, with the exception of access roads or utilities. The buffer
will serve to screen the adjacent parcels and the lake, where applicable, from
the units within the PUD. The screening will contain both low growing (e.g.,
brush) and high growing (e.g., trees) vegetation. Adjacent parcels and the
lake, where applicable, shall be a minimum of 50% screened, as measured by the
Planning and Zoning Administrator, from the adjacent parcel or the lake during
leaf-on conditions. An earthen berm may be used where, in the opinion of the
Planning Commission, the existing vegetation cannot be enhanced to meet the 50%
screening criteria. Use of a berm shall not preclude the maintaining of a 50-
foot buffer or the installation of screening as part of the berm.
   (C)   Open space. At least 25% of the total project area must be preserved
in open space.
      (1)   Open space shall be left in its natural state and shall be
contiguous.
      (2)   Dwelling units or sites, road right-of-way, land covered by road
surfaces, parking areas, stormwater basins, collection and treatment areas,
structures, and landscaped areas which are routinely maintained are developed
areas and shall not be included in the computation of minimum open space.
      (3)   Areas with physical characteristics unsuitable for development in
their natural state, and areas containing significant historic sites or
unplatted cemeteries shall be included as open space.
      (4)   The 50-foot buffer shall be included as open space, minus areas
used as accesses.
      (5)   Where a wildlife corridor is present, open space shall be designed
to include the corridor.
      (6)   The appearance of open space areas shall be preserved by use of
restrictive deed covenants, permanent easements, public dedication and
acceptance, or other equally effective and permanent means acceptable to the
city.
      (7)   At least 50% of the shore impact zone must be maintained as open
space.
   (D)   Common space. At least 50% of the project must be included as common
space.
      (1)   Open space shall be counted as common space.
      (2)   Common space may include any outdoor recreational facilities for
use by owners of the dwelling units or sites, or the public.
      (3)   Common space may include areas used for stormwater retention or
management and areas used for sanitary sewer collection or disposal. Where
common space includes sanitary sewage treatment systems, the use of the space
shall be restricted where necessary to avoid adverse impacts on the systems.
      (4)   All of the shore impact zones must be included as common space.
      (5)   Common space must not include commercial facilities or uses, but
may contain water-oriented facilities.
      (6)   The appearance and use of common space areas, including topography,
vegetation, and allowable uses, must be preserved by use of restrictive deed
covenants, permanent easements, public dedication and acceptance, or other
equally effective and permanent means acceptable to the city.
   (E)   Stormwater management.
      (1)   All PUDs must develop and maintain a stormwater management plan
indefinitely.
      (2)   Capacities of existing drainage ways shall be maintained.
      (3)   Unless specifically allowed by the city, inlets and outlets to
adjacent parcels shall be maintained. Flows from outlets shall be maintained
unless allowed by the city.
      (4)   All PUDs shall contain the ten-year, 24-hour storm event within the
development.
      (5)   Runoff from the parcel shall not be concentrated unless part of a
city stormwater management plan.
   (F)   Sanitary sewer and water supply standards.
      (1)   Residential planned unit developments must be connected to publicly
owned water supply and sewer systems, when available.
      (2)   Onsite water supply and sewage treatment systems must be
centralized and designed and installed to meet or exceed applicable standards
or rules of the State Department of Health and the State Pollution Control
Agency.
      (3)   Onsite sewage treatment systems must be located in a suitable area
of the development, and sufficient lawn area free of limiting factors must be
provided for a replacement soil treatment system for each sewage system.
   (G)   Erosion control.
      (1)   All PUDs must develop and maintain an erosion control plan
throughout construction activities.
      (2)   Temporary ground covers, sediment entrapment facilities, vegetated
buffer strips, or other techniques must be used to minimize erosion.
      (3)   Steps shall be taken to insure that disturbed ground is restored or
stabilized as soon as possible after being disturbed.
   (H)   Exterior lighting. All exterior lighting shall be directed downward.
Lighting shall not illuminate parcels adjacent to the PUD, either directly or
indirectly.
   (I)   Building standards. Units must be clustered in one or more groups and
located on suitable areas of the development. All structures within a PUD must
meet the minimum standards.
      (1)   New multi-family dwellings of four units or larger shall be
designed by an architect.
      (2)   New multi-family buildings shall meet the State Code for fire and
sound ratings.
      (3)   Water systems must be winterized.
      (4)   Parking and driving areas must be paved.
      (5)   All buildings shall be earth tone in color and shall be designed,
constructed, and positioned to be compatible, in color, character, and mass
with the surrounding land use.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.128 DESIGN CRITERIA FOR EXISTING PUDS.
   (A)   All existing PUDs shall meet the design criteria for a new PUD, where
possible.
   (B)   Additional development within an existing PUD shall not bring the PUD
further out of compliance with the basic design criteria.
   (C)   Allowances for density increases shall only be made in existing PUDs
where new development within the PUD meets the design criteria and specific
density increase criteria, and the new development serves to bring the entire
PUD closer to conforming with the design criteria.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.129 COMPUTING PUD BUILDABLE AREA.
   Buildable area in a PUD is calculated using the following procedure:
   (A)   The project parcel is divided into tiers by locating one or more lines
approximately parallel to a line that identifies the ordinary high water level
at the following intervals, proceeding landward:
 
Shoreland Tier Dimensions
                                              Unsewered (feet) Sewered (feet)
General develop lakes - first tier            200              200
General develop lakes - second and additional 267              267
tiers
Recreational Development - all tiers          267              267
Natural Environment lakes - all tiers         400              320
 
   (B)   The area within each tier is next calculated, excluding all wetlands,
bluffs, or land below the ordinary high water level of public waters. This area
is then subjected to either the residential or commercial planned unit
development density evaluation steps to arrive at an allowable base number of
dwelling units or sites.
   (C)   Beyond the second tier, all property is classified as “third tier and
beyond.”
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.130 RESIDENTIAL PUDS.
   (A)   Base density. To compute the base density, the buildable area within
each tier, as calculated in §
150.235(E), is divided by the single residential lot size standard for the
zoning district. This shall yield a base density of dwelling units or sites for
each tier.
   (B)   Transferability. Allowable base densities may be transferred from any
tier to any other tier further from the shoreland water body or watercourse,
but must not be transferred to any other tier closer.
   (C)   Density increases. The city shall allow some dwelling unit or site
density increases for residential planned unit developments as provided for in
the following.
      (1)   When density increases are allowed, they shall be allowed only in
conformance with the following table.
Criteria Density Increase, Tier Density Increase, Tier Density Increase, Tier 3
         1                      2                      and Beyond
Criteria            Density Increase, Density Increase,    Density Increase,
                    Tier 1            Tier 2               Tier 3 and Beyond
Connection to city  20%               40%                  50%
sewer
External vegetative
buffer increased to 5%                20%                  25%
an average of 75
feet
External vegetative
buffer increased to 10%               40% (not cumulative) 50% (not cumulative)
an average of 100
feet
Maintain 100-year,
24-hour storm event 10%               20%                  25%
onsite
Open space
increased to 40% of 5%                20%                  25%
total area
Restore and
maintain shoreland  10%               20%                  20%
in its original/
natural state
Screening increased 5%                20%                  25%
to 75% effective
Screening increased 10%               40% (not cumulative) 50% (not cumulative)
to 100% effective
Setback from lake   5%                10%                  10%
increased 50%
Setback from lake   10%               20% (not cumulative) 20% (not cumulative)
increased 100%
Notes to table:
Increases are from the base density. Stepped increases do not result in
cumulative density increases (e.g., a 75-foot buffer allows a 5% increase in
Tier 1. A 100-foot buffer would allow an additional 10% increase in Tier 1 for
a total of 15% as shown in the table).
 
      (2)   Increases in unit or site densities shall not exceed the following
maximums.
 
Tier                           Maximum Density Increase
First                          50%
Second                         100%
Third and each subsequent tier 200%
 
   (D)   Administration and any maintenance requirements. Prior to final
approval of any residential planned unit developments, the city will require
adequate provisions developed for preservation and maintenance in perpetuity of
open spaces and for the continued existence and functioning of the development
as a community.
      (1)   Membership must be mandatory for each dwelling unit or site
purchaser and any successive purchasers.
      (2)   Each member must pay a pro rata share of the association’s
expenses, and unpaid assessments can become liens on units or sites.
      (3)   Assessments must be adjustable to accommodate changing conditions.
      (4)   The association must be responsible for insurance, taxes, and
maintenance of all commonly owned property and facilities.
      (5)   Changes to owner’s association must be approved by the city.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.131 COMMERCIAL PUDS.
   (A)   Base density. Base density is determined through the following steps.
      (1)   Determine the average inside living area size of dwelling units or
sites within each tier, including both existing and proposed units and sites.
Computation of inside living area sizes need not include decks, patios, stoops,
steps, garages, or porches and basements, unless they are habitable space.
      (2)   Select the appropriate floor area ratio from the following table.
                   Sewered General    Second and
                   Development Lakes; Additional Tiers on
Average Unit Floor First Tier on      Unsewered General   Natural Environmental
Area (Square Feet) Unsewered General  Development Lakes;  Lakes and Streams
                   Development Lakes  Recreational
                                      Development Lakes
                   Sewered General    Second and
                   Development Lakes; Additional Tiers on
Average Unit Floor First Tier on      Unsewered General   Natural Environmental
Area (Square Feet) Unsewered General  Development Lakes;  Lakes and Streams
                   Development Lakes  Recreational
                                      Development Lakes
1,000              0.108              0.054               0.027
1,100              0.116              0.058               0.029
1,200              0.125              0.064               0.032
1,300              0.133              0.068               0.034
1,400              0.142              0.072               0.036
1,500              0.150              0.075               0.038
Note to table:
For average unit floor areas less than shown, use the floor area ratios listed
for 200 square feet. For areas greater than shown, use the ratios listed for
1,500 square feet. For recreational camping areas, use the ratios listed at
1,000 square feet. Manufactured home sites in recreational camping areas shall
use a ratio equal to the size of the manufactured home with a minimum of the
ratio listed for 1,000 square feet.
 
      (3)   Multiply the useable area within each tier by the floor area ratio
to yield total floor area for each tier allowed to be used for dwelling units
or sites.
      (4)   Divide the area computed in division (A)(3) above by the average
determined in division (A)(1) above. This yields a base number of dwelling
units or sites for each tier. Use 1,000 square feet minimum for a RV or
manufactured home.
   (B)   Transferability. Allowable base densities may be transferred from any
tier to any other tier further from the shoreland water body or watercourse,
but must not be transferred to any other tier closer.
   (C)   Density increases. The city shall allow some dwelling unit or site
density increases for residential planned unit developments as provided for in
the following.
      (1)   Where density increases are allowed, they shall be allowed only in
conformance with the following table.
Criteria Density Increase, Tier Density Increase, Tier Density Increase, Tier 3
         1                      2                      and Beyond
Criteria            Density Increase, Density Increase,    Density Increase,
                    Tier 1            Tier 2               Tier 3 and Beyond
Connection to city  20%               40%                  50%
sewer
External vegetative
buffer increased to 5%                20%                  25%
an average of 75
feet
External vegetative
buffer increased to 10%               40% (not cumulative) 50% (not cumulative)
an average of 100
feet
Maintain 100-year,
24-hour storm event 10%               20%                  25%
on site
Open space
increased to 40% of 5%                20%                  25%
total area
Restore and
maintain shoreland  10%               20%                  20%
in its original/
natural state
Screening increased 5%                20%                  25%
to 75% effective
Screening increased 10%               40% (not cumulative) 50% (not cumulative)
to 100% effective
Setback from lake   5%                10%                  10%
increased 50%
Setback from lake   10%               20% (not cumulative) 20% (not cumulative)
increased 100%
Note to table:
Increases are from base density. Stepped increases do not result in cumulative
density increases (e.g., a 75-foot buffer allows a 5% increase in Tier 1. A
100-foot buffer would allow an additional 10% increase in Tier 1 for a total of
15%, as shown in the table).
 
      (2)   Increases in unit or site densities shall not exceed the following
maximums.
 
Tier                           Maximum Density Increase
First                          50%
Second                         100%
Third and each subsequent tier 200%
 
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS
§ 150.145 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is:
   (A)   To establish predictable and balanced regulations that protect the
public health, safety, and general welfare of the city;
   (B)   Facilitate the provision of telecommunications services and
facilities, including commercial wireless telecommunication services in the
city;
   (C)   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through careful design
standards;
   (D)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower or antenna
failure and weather related occurrences through structural standards, careful
siting, and setback requirements; and
   (E)   Encourage the use of existing towers and buildings to accommodate
commercial wireless telecommunication service antennas in order to minimize the
number of towers needed to serve the city.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.146 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect,
construct in place, place, or re-erect any tower, unless it shall replace a
like tower, without first making application to the city and securing a permit.
A change in construction, dimension, lighting design, or design type shall also
require a permit. The placement of antennas on previously approved towers may
be administratively approved by the city.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.147 TOWER AND ANTENNA DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Proposed or modified towers and antennas shall meet the following design
requirements.
   (A)   Towers and antennas shall blend into the surrounding environment
through the use of color and camouflaging architectural treatment, except in
instances where the color is dictated by federal or state authorities.
   (B)   No tower shall have constructed thereon, or attached thereto, in any
way, any platform, catwalk, crow’s nest, or like structure, except during
periods of construction or repair.
   (C)   Towers and their antennas shall be certified by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer to conform to applicable state structural
building standards.
   (D)   Towers and their antennas shall be designed to conform with accepted
electrical engineering methods and practices and to comply with the provisions
of the National Electrical Code.
   (E)   Metal towers shall be constructed of, or treated with, corrosive
resistant material.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.148 TOWER SETBACKS.
   Towers and all accessory structures or buildings shall conform to the
following minimum setback requirements.
   (A)   Towers shall be set back from all property lines and existing
structures an amount equal to the height of the structure.
   (B)   Guy wires for towers shall be located no closer than 25 feet to any
property line and shall meet the setback of the underlying land use district
with respect to the public road right-of-way.
   (C)   Suitable protective anti-climbing fencing, with a minimum height of
six feet, shall be provided around any tower and guy wires.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.149 TOWER LOCATION.
   Towers less than 200 feet in height shall be located a minimum of one-half
mile from the end of an airport clear zone as measured from the center point of
the base of a freestanding tower. Towers that are 200 feet or more in height
shall be located a distance of at least three miles from any public or private
airport.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.150 CO-LOCATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All commercial wireless telecommunication towers erected, constructed, or
located within the city shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Documentation of the area to be served, including maps demonstrating
the size of communication cells and a search ring for the antenna location. A
narrative describing a search ring for the request, with not less than one mile
radius clearly explaining why the site was selected, what existing structures
were available, and why they are not suitable as locations or co-locations.
   (B)   Documentation that the communications equipment planned for the
proposed tower cannot be accommodated on an existing or approved tower or
building within the search ring of the service area due to one or more of the
following reasons.
      (1)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of the
existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified and
licensed professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be
reinforced, modified, or replaced to accommodate planned equipment at a
reasonable cost.
      (2)   The planned equipment would cause interference materially impacting
the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or building
as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer or qualified
radio frequency engineer, and the interference cannot be prevented at a
reasonable cost.
      (3)   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search radius
that are 60 feet or over in height that cannot accommodate the planned
equipment at a height necessary to function reasonably, as documented by a
qualified and licensed professional engineer.
      (4)   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.
   (C)   Any proposed tower shall be designed, structurally, electrically, and
in all respects, to accommodate both the applicant’s antennas and comparable
antennas for at least two additional users if the tower is over 99 feet in
height, or for at least one additional user if the tower is between 35 and 99
feet in height. Towers must be designed to allow for future rearrangement of
antennas upon the tower and to accept mounting at varying heights.
   (D)   An agreement stating that the site will be designed for not less than
three users with applicant and property owner commitment to collocation,
whereby, any prohibition of additional users on a tower will be considered a
violation of the permit and city policy. The agreement shall also include a
statement that any unused or abandoned tower shall be removed by the property
owner and/or applicant. Said agreement shall be signed by the applicant and the
property owner and shall be attached to and become a part of the permit.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.151 ANTENNAS MOUNTED ON EXISTING BUILDINGS OR TOWERS.
   The placement of telecommunication antennas, including wireless
telecommunication antennas on existing buildings, towers, or structures, shall
meet the requirements of the underlying land use district and this section. A
site plan and building plan must be submitted to the city as part of the land
use permitting process. Where a tower is non-conforming due to the requirements
of this section, additional telecommunication antennas may be permitted to be
placed on the tower after being reviewed by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.152 ACCESSORY UTILITY BUILDINGS.
   All buildings and structures accessory to a tower shall:
   (A)   Be architecturally designed to blend in with the surrounding
environment and shall meet the height and setback limitations as established
for each land use district; and
   (B)   Have ground mounted equipment screened from view by suitable
vegetation, except where a design of non-vegetative screening better reflects
and complements the architectural character of the surrounding neighborhood.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.153 TOWER LIGHTING.
   A tower shall not be illuminated by artificial means and shall not have
affixed or attached to it in any way, except during time of repair or
installation, any lights, reflectors, flashers, or other illuminating device,
except as required by the Federal Aviation Administration or the Federal
Communications Commission or state agency. When incorporated into the approved
design of the tower, light fixtures used to illuminate ball fields, parking
lots, or similar areas may be attached to the tower.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.154 ABANDONED OR UNUSED TOWERS.
   Abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities shall be removed within
12 months of the cessation of operations at the site unless a time extension is
approved by the Zoning Administrator. In the event that a tower is not removed
within the 12 months of the cessation of operations at a site, the tower and
associated facilities may be removed by the city and the costs of removal
assessed against the property.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.155 PUBLIC SAFETY TELECOMMUNICATIONS INTERFERENCE.
   Commercial wireless telecommunications services shall not interfere with
public safety telecommunications. All applications shall include adequate
information that will be reviewed by the Planning and Zoning Commission before
a permit may be issued. Before the introduction of new service or changes in
existing service, telecommunication providers shall notify the city at least
ten calendar days in advance of any changes and allow the city to monitor
interference levels during the testing process.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.156 SIGNS AND ADVERTISING.
   The use of any portion of a tower for signs other than warning or equipment
information signs is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.157 NON-CONFORMING TOWERS.
   (A)   In order to avoid requiring new towers and to minimize the number of
towers needed to serve the city, the following provisions shall apply to non-
conforming towers. Telecommunication towers in existence at the time of this
chapter may be permitted to increase tower height after being issued a
conditional use permit.
   (B)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall consider the following
criteria as part of the conditional use permit process:
      (1)   Tower safety concerns, including tower collapse, falling ice, and
airplane traffic;
      (2)   Land use character and history of tower(s);
      (3)   Comparative visual impact to the surrounding lands of the proposed
tower height increase;
      (4)   Disturbance or conflict with agricultural uses on the property; and
      (5)   Other factors which tend to reduce conflicts or are incompatible
with the character and need of the area.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.158 SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENT.
   A screening and landscaping plan designed to screen the base of the tower,
accessory utility buildings, utility structures, and security fencing shall be
submitted. The plan shall show the location, size, quantity, and type of
landscaping materials. Landscape materials shall be capable of screening all
year and must be six feet in height by the end of the second growing season.
Gravel or other durable surface, or other weed prevention measures, shall be
applied within the fenced area to prevent the growth of weeds. A maintenance
plan for landscaped materials shall also be submitted.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.159 ADDITIONAL SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the information required elsewhere, applications shall
include the following information:
   (A)   A report from a licensed professional engineer that describes the
commercial wireless telecommunication service tower’s capacity, including the
number and type of antennas that it can accommodate;
   (B)   A letter of intent from the commercial wireless telecommunication
service tower owner committing the tower owner and successors to allow the
shared use of the tower if an additional user agrees in writing to meet
reasonable terms and conditions for shared use;
   (C)   The location of all public and private airports within a three-mile
radius of the tower site;
   (D)   Applicant must obtain FAA approval and/or provide documentation that
FAA approval is not needed;
   (E)   Applicant must obtain FCC licensure and approval as required for
various communications applications. No interference with local television and
radio reception will be allowed;
   (F)   An intermodulation study which provides a technical evaluation of
existing and proposed transmissions and indicates all potential interference
problems, only if that is the basis for not co-locating;
   (G)   The applicant must submit proof of liability and worker’s
compensation;
   (H)   For towers over 500 feet, an environmental assessment worksheet (EAW)
is required, and the applicant shall be responsible to provide the city with
all information required to complete the EAW prior to the issuance of a permit
from the city; and
   (I)   The owner of the tower shall provide the city with an acceptable
financial guarantee in an amount equal to one and one-half times the cost to
remove the tower and related infrastructure, including footings and other
underground improvements to a depth of 36 inches below existing grade, and to
restore the site. Failure to remove the structure shall be cause for the city
to remove the tower and associated equipment at the expense of the property
owners.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.160 TOWERS NOT REQUIRING A PERMIT.
   Permits are not required for the following:
   (A)   A satellite earth station antenna four feet in diameter or less,
located in an industrial or commercial district, meeting required setbacks;
   (B)   A satellite earth station antenna three feet or less in diameter,
meeting the required setbacks; or
   (C)   A tower less than 50 feet, as measured from the ground.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
ADULT USES
§ 150.175 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to regulate adult oriented
businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare of the
citizens of the city and to establish reasonable and uniform regulations to:
      (1)   Prevent additional criminal activity within the city;
      (2)   Prevent deterioration of neighborhoods and its consequent adverse
effect on real estate values of properties within the neighborhood;
      (3)   To locate adult oriented businesses away from residential areas,
schools, churches, and parks and playgrounds; and
      (4)   Prevent concentration of adult oriented businesses within certain
areas of the city.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter have neither the purpose nor effect
of imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
material, including adult oriented materials. Similarly, it is not the intent
nor effect of this subchapter to restrict or deny access by adults to adult
oriented materials protected by the First Amendment, or to deny access by
distributors and exhibitors of adult oriented entertainment to their intended
market.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.176 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in this subchapter, no structure shall
be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed, or altered, and no structure or
land shall be used for any purpose nor in any manner which is not in conformity
with this subchapter.
   (B)   No adult oriented business shall engage in any activity or conduct or
permit any other person to engage in any activity or conduct in or about the
establishment which is prohibited by any ordinance of the city, the laws of the
state, or the United States of America. Nothing in this subchapter shall be
construed as authorizing or permitting conduct which is prohibited or regulated
by other statutes or ordinances, including, but not limited to, statutes or
ordinances prohibiting the exhibition, sale, or distribution of obscene
material generally, or the exhibition, sale, or distribution of specified
materials to minors.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.177 LOCATION.
   During the term of this subchapter, no adult oriented businesses shall be
located less than 500 feet from any residential zoning district boundary or
site used for residential purposes, nor less than 500 feet from any church
site, from any school site, from any day care facility, or from any park which
is adjacent to property zoned Residential. In addition, no adult oriented
business may be located within 300 feet of another adult oriented business. For
purposes of this subchapter, this distance shall be a horizontal measurement
from the nearest existing Residential District boundary or site used for
residential purposes, church site, school site, day care site, park site, or
another adult oriented business site to the nearest boundary of the proposed
adult oriented business site.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.178 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No adult oriented business site shall be open to the public from the hours
of 11:00 p.m. to 9:00 a.m.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.179 OPERATION.
   (A)   Offsite viewing. An establishment operating as an adult oriented
business shall prevent offsite viewing of its merchandise, which if viewed by a
minor, would be in violation of M.S. Chapter 617, as amended from time to time,
or other applicable federal or state statutes or local ordinances.
   (B)   Entrances. All entrances to the business, with the exception of
emergency fire exits which are not useable by patrons to enter the business,
shall be visible from a public right-of-way.
   (C)   Layout. The layout of the display areas shall be designed so that the
management of the establishment and any law enforcement personnel inside the
store can observe all patrons while they have access to any merchandise offered
for sale or viewing, including, but not limited to, books, magazines,
photographs, video tapes, or any other material.
   (D)   Illumination. Illumination of the premises’ exterior shall be adequate
to observe the location and activities of all person on the exterior premises.
   (E)   Signs. Signs for adult oriented businesses shall comply with the city
code sign restrictions addressed in §§
150.050 through
150.057, and in addition, signs for adult oriented businesses shall not contain
representational depiction of an adult nature or graphic descriptions of the
adult theme of the operation.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.180 CONSUMPTION OR SALE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   Adult oriented business shall not be located on the same parcel as, on a
parcel adjacent to or within 500 feet of an establishment that serves alcoholic
beverages. Sale of alcoholic beverages on a parcel containing an adult use is
prohibited. Consumption of alcoholic beverages on a parcel containing an adult
use is prohibited.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.181 LICENSES.
   (A)   Licenses required. All establishments, including any business
operating at the time this subchapter becomes effective, operating or intending
to operate adult oriented business, shall apply for and obtain a license from
the city. A person is in violation of the city code if he or she operates an
adult oriented business without a valid license issued by the city.
   (B)   Applications. An application for a license must be made on a form
provided by the city.
      (1)   The application must be accompanied by a sketch or diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business. The sketch or diagram need not be professionally
prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or drawn with marked
dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of plus or minus six
inches.
      (2)   The applicant must be qualified according to the provisions of this
section, and the premises must be inspected and found to be in compliance with
the appropriate state, county, and local law and codes by the health official,
Fire Marshal, and building official.
      (3)   Application for license shall contain the address and legal
description of the property to be used; the names, addresses, phone numbers,
dates of birth of the owners, lessee, if any, the operator or manager, and all
employees; the name, address, and phone number of two persons, who shall be
residents of the state, and who may be called upon to attest to the
applicant’s, manager’s, or operator’s character; whether the applicant,
manager, or operator has ever been convicted of a crime or offense other than a
traffic offense and, if so, complete and accurate information detailing the
disposition thereof; the names and addresses of all creditors of the applicant,
owner, lessee, or manager regarding credit which has been extended for the
purposes of constructing, equipping, maintaining, operating, furnishing, or
acquiring the premises, personal effects, equipment, or anything incident to
the establishment, maintenance, and operation of the business.
      (4)   If the application is made on behalf of the corporation, joint
business venture, partnership, or any legally constituted business association,
it shall submit, along with its application, accurate and complete business
records showing the names, addresses, and dates of birth of all individuals
having an interest in the business, including partners, officers, owners, and
creditors furnishing credit for the establishment, acquisition, maintenance,
and furnishings of said business, in the case of a corporation, the names,
addresses, and dates of birth off all officers, general managers, members of
the Board of Directors as well as any creditors who have extended credit for
the acquisition, maintenance, operation, or furnishing of the establishment,
including the purchase or acquisition of any items of personal property for use
in said operation.
      (5)   All applicants shall furnish to the city, along with their
applications, complete and accurate documentation establishing the interest of
the applicant and any other person having an interest in the premises upon
which the building is proposed to be located or the furnishings thereof,
personal property thereof, or the operation or maintenance thereof.
Documentation shall be in the form of a lease, deed, contract for deed,
mortgage deed, mortgage credit arrangement, loan agreements, security
agreements, and any other documents establishing the interest of the applicant
or any other person in the operation, acquisition, or maintenance of the
enterprise.
   (C)   Application/applicant disqualification.
      (1)   The license fee required by this subchapter has not been paid.
      (2)   An applicant has been convicted of a crime involving any of the
following offenses:
         (a)   Any sex crimes as defined by M.S. §§ 609.29 through 609.352
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, or as defined by any
ordinance or statute in conformity therewith;
         (b)   Any obscenity crime as defined by M.S. §§ 617.23 through 617.299
inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time, or as defined by any
ordinance or statute in conformity therewith, for which:
            1.   Less than two years have elapsed since the date of conviction
or the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever
is the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
            2.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is a felony offense; or
            3.   Less than five years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement for the last conviction,
whichever is the later date, if the conviction is two or more misdemeanor
offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within any 24-hour
period.
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed from shall have no
effect on disqualification of the applicant or applicant’s spouse.
   (D)   Requalification. An applicant who has been convicted of an offense
listed in division (C)(2) above, may qualify for an adult oriented business
license only when the time period required by division (C)(2) above has
elapsed.
   (E)   Posting. The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of
the person or persons to whom it is granted, the expiration date, and the
address of the adult oriented business. The license shall be posted in a
conspicuous place at or near the entrance to the adult oriented business so
that it may be easily read at any time.
   (F)   Council action. The City Council shall act to approve or disapprove
the license application within 120 days from the date the application was
submitted, provided that the application contains all of the information
required by this subchapter. If the application is deficient, the Council shall
act on the application within 120 days from the date that the deficiency has
been corrected. The City Clerk-Treasurer shall notify the applicant of the
deficiencies in the application.
   (G)   Appeals. Within 90 days after the decision by the Council, the
applicant may appeal to the District Court by serving a notice upon the Mayor
or City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.182 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   The City Council shall direct the Police Department or County Sheriff to
investigate all facts set forth in the application. An advance fee of $500
shall be submitted with the application to defray the city’s costs and expenses
with the background investigation. After the background investigation has been
completed and all information required by the application has been submitted to
the city, the City Council shall determine whether to grant or deny the license
application.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.183 LICENSE FEES.
   Fees shall be established by City Council resolution on the fee structure.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.184 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Access. An applicant or licensee shall permit health officials,
representatives of the Police Department, County Sheriff’s Office, Fire
Department, Zoning Administrator, and Building Inspection Division to inspect
the premises of an adult oriented business for the purpose of ensuring
compliance with the law and city code, at any time it is occupied or open for
business, in accordance with §
10.20.
   (B)   Refusal to permit inspections. A person who operates an adult oriented
business, or his or her agent or employee, commits an offense if he or she
refuses to permit a lawful inspection of the premises by health officials,
representatives of the Police Department, County Sheriff’s Office, Fire
Department, Zoning Administrator, and Building Inspection Division, at any time
it is occupied or open for business, in accordance with §
10.20. Refusal to permit inspections may result in the suspension of the
license as provided in §
150.186.
   (C)   Exceptions. The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an
adult motel which are currently being rented by a customer for uses as a
permanent or temporary habitation.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.185 EXPIRATION AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   Expiration. Each license shall expire at the end of the calendar year
and may be renewed only by making application as provided in §
150.181(B). Application for renewal must be made at least 60 days before the
expiration date, and when made less than 60 days before the expiration date,
the expiration of the license will be unaffected.
   (B)   Denial of renewal. When the city denies renewal of a license, the
applicant shall not be issued a license for one year from the date of denial.
If, subsequent to denial, the city finds that the basis for denial of the
renewal license has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a
license if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date denial became final.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.186 SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Causes of suspension. The city may suspend a license for a period not
to exceed 30 days if it determines that a licensee or an employee of a licensee
has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any provision of this
subchapter;
      (2)   Engaged in the use of alcoholic beverages while on the adult
oriented business premises;
      (3)   Refused to allow an inspection of the adult oriented business
premises as authorized by this subchapter in accordance with §
10.20;
      (4)   Knowingly permitted gambling by any person on the adult oriented
business premises; or
      (5)   Demonstrated inability to operate or mange an adult oriented
business in a peaceful and law-abiding manner, thus necessitating action by law
enforcement officers.
   (B)   Notice. A suspension by the city shall be preceded by written notice
to the licensee and before a hearing. The notice shall give at least ten days’
notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of the
charges against the licensee. The notice may be served upon the licensee
personally, or by leaving the same at the licensee’s business premises with the
person in charge thereof.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.187 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Suspended licenses. The city may revoke a license if a cause of
suspension in §
150.186 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   Causes of revocation. The city shall revoke a license if it determines
that:
      (1)   A licensee gave false or misleading information in the material
submitted to the city during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (3)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed prostitution on the
premises;
      (4)   A licensee or an employee knowingly operated the adult oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee’s license was suspended;
      (5)   A licensee has been convicted of an offense listed in §
150.181(C)(2), for which the time period required in §
150.181(C)(2) has not elapsed;
      (6)   On two or more occasions within a 12-month period, a person or
persons committed an offense occurring in or on the licensed premises of a
crime listed in §
150.181(C)(2), for which a conviction has been obtained, and the person or
person were employees of the adult oriented business at the time the offenses
were committed;
      (7)   A licensee or an employee has knowingly allowed any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, or masturbation to occur in or on the
licensed premises; or
      (8)   A licensee has allowed the sale and/or consumption of alcoholic
beverages at the adult oriented business for which a license has been issued
herein.
   (C)   Appeals. The fact that conviction is being appealed shall have no
effect on the revocation of the license.
   (D)   Granting a license after revocation. 
      (1)   When the city revokes a license, the revocation shall continue for
one year, and the licensee shall not be issued an adult oriented business
license for one year from the date the revocation became effective.
      (2)   If, subsequent to revocation, the city finds that the basis for the
revocation has been corrected or abated, the applicant may be granted a license
if at least 90 days have elapsed since the date the revocation became
effective.
      (3)   If the license was revoked under division (B)(5) above, an
applicant may not be granted another license until the appropriate number of
years required under §
150.181(C) have elapsed.
   (E)   Notice. A revocation by the city shall be proceeded by written notice
to the licensee and a public hearing. The notice shall give at least ten day’s
notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of the
charges against the licensee. The notice may be served upon the licensee
personally, or by leaving the same at the licensed premised with the person in
charge thereof.
   (F)   Transfer of license. A licensee shall not transfer this license to
another, nor shall a licensee operate an adult oriented business under the
authority of a license at any place other than the address designated in the
application.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
RESIDENTIAL WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS
§ 150.200 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is:
   (A)   To establish predictable and balanced regulations that protect the
public health, safety, and general welfare of the city;
   (B)   Facilitate the provision of wind energy conversion systems in the
city;
   (C)   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through careful design
standards; and
   (D)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from wind turbine and/or
tower failure and weather related occurrences through structural standards,
careful siting, and setback requirements.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.201 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect,
construct in place, place, or re-erect any wind energy conversion system,
unless it shall replace a like residential wind energy conversion system,
without first making application to the city and securing a permit. A change in
construction, dimension, lighting design, or design type shall also require a
permit.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.202 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   Proposed or modified wind turbines shall meet the following design
requirements:
   (A)   All above-ground components must be white, grey, or non-obstructive in
color;
   (B)   Lighting shall be limited to FAA requirements;
   (C)   Signage shall be limited to appropriate warnings and turbine
manufacturing/owner on nacelle;
   (D)   Power lines shall be buried; and
   (E)   Shall be considered abandoned after one year of no production. The
owner shall have 90 days for removal after abandonment.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.203 CLEARANCE OF BLADE.
   No portion of the residential wind energy system shall extend within 20 feet
of the ground. No blades may extend over parking areas, driveways, or
sidewalks.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.204 SETBACKS.
   No part of the wind system structure, including guy wire anchors, may
encroach in the normal structure setbacks. Setbacks for the system tower shall
be no farther from the property line than the height of the system, provided
that it also complies with any applicable fire setback requirements.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.205 AUTOMATIC OVERSPEED CONTROLS.
   All wind energy conversion systems shall be equipped with manual (electronic
or mechanical) and automatic overspeed controls to limit the blade rotation
speed to within the design limits of the residential wind energy system.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.206 ADDITIONAL SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the information required elsewhere, applications shall
include the following information.
   (A)   Approved wind turbines.
      (1)   Residential wind turbines must be approved under an emerging
technology program, IEC, or any other small wind certification program
recognized by the American Wind Energy Association (AWEA) or the U.S.
Department of Energy.
      (2)   Non-certified residential wind turbines must submit a description
of the safety features of the turbine prepared by a registered mechanical
engineer.
   (B)   Compliance with Uniform Building Code. Land use permit applications
for residential wind systems shall be accompanied by standard drawings of the
wind turbine structure, including the tower, base, and footings. An engineering
analysis of the tower showing compliance with the Uniform Building Code and
certified by a licensed professional engineer shall also be submitted. This
analysis is frequently supplied by the manufacturer. Wet stamps shall not be
required.
   (C)   Compliance with FAA regulations. Residential wind energy systems must
comply with applicable FAA regulations, including any necessary approvals for
installations close to airports.
   (D)   Compliance with National Electric Code. Land use permit applications
for residential wind energy systems shall be accompanied by a line drawing of
the electrical components in sufficient detail to allow for a determination
that the manner of the installation conforms to the National Electrical Code.
This information is frequently supplied by the manufacturer.
   (E)   Utility notification.
      (1)   No residential wind energy system shall be installed until evidence
has been given that the utility company has been informed of the customer’s
intent to install an interconnected customer-owned generator.
      (2)   Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
EXTRACTIVE USES
§ 150.215 POLICY.
   Extractive use mining is an important industry in the city and contributes
directly and indirectly to the economy of the city. Construction sand and
gravel are used in concrete, aggregates, concrete products, asphalt, road base,
fill, snow and ice control, and other miscellaneous uses. Peat, black dirt,
rock, and other soils are used extensively for landscaping. Other extractive
uses are or may be used to a lesser degree in the city.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.216 GRAVEL EXTRACTION PERMIT CLASSIFICATIONS.
   (A)   G1. Top soil removal for commercial purposes.
      (1)   Temporary borrow sites incidental to construction.
      (2)   No processing of materials or stockpiling of recyclable bituminous
or demolition materials.
      (3)   Extraction and reclamation to occur in same construction season.
      (4)   Peat and humus extraction.
   (B)   G2. All G1 uses.
      (1)   Natural material removal only, no processing, with exception for
screening equipment.
      (2)   Site may be used for many years and developed in phases.
      (3)   Site may be used for stockpiling of screened materials.
   (C)   G3. All G1 and G2 uses.
      (1)   Site may include crushing, screening, washing, and processing of
bituminous and demolition materials.
      (2)   Stockpiling of recyclable demolition and bituminous can occur.
   (D)   G4. All G1, G2, and G3 uses. Site may include hot mix operations and
bituminous reprocessing.
   (E)   G5. All G1, G2, G3, and G4 uses. Site may include redi-mix concrete
plant.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.217 INTERIM USE PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Extractive uses shall only be allowed as an interim use in those districts
indicated in the use classification list in §
150.038. In addition to the general conditions that may be imposed by the
Planning Commission/Board of Adjustment, the specific conditions in this
subchapter shall apply to conditional use permits.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.218 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The standards in this subchapter shall apply to extractive uses in all
land use districts where such uses are allowed.
   (B)   All forms of extractive use shall be subject to the provisions of this
subchapter, including, but not limited to, gravel, sand, topsoil, quarry rock,
mineral, peat, humus, sub-surface insitu-leach extraction, petroleum, and any
other similar uses in which material is removed from the ground, except for the
following: Personal non-commercial extractive use by the owner of the land on
which the extractive use takes place is exempt from permitting requirements,
but are subject to restoration requirements in this section within one year of
suspension of extraction activities if the site is visible from the public
road.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.219 ADDITIONAL CUP INFORMATION AND REVIEW CRITERIA.
   An interim use permit is required for all new extractive uses, with the
exception of the owner’s extractive use for personal/non-commercial purposes.
As part of the interim use permit, an operation permit shall be required. In
addition to the application, information, and review criteria for a general
conditional use permit in this section, the following specific requirements
shall be met for an extractive use conditional use permit.
   (A)   Operation permit required. It shall be required as part of the
approval of the interim use permit for an extractive use that an operation
permit be issued. The operation permit shall not run with the land. The
operation permit will be for a specific operator and for a specific time limit
reviewed annually.
   (B)   Specific evaluation criteria. In addition to the general criteria for
evaluating an interim use permit in §
150.284, the following specific criteria shall be used in evaluating an
application for an extractive use conditional use permit:
      (1)   The ability of roads to handle extractive related traffic;
      (2)   Air quality, dust and noise control measures, and ability to limit
impact upon any adjacent residential properties according to MPCA standards;
      (3)   Groundwater protection;
      (4)   Property controlling access;
      (5)   Control of erosion and sedimentation;
      (6)   Impact within watershed;
      (7)   In harmony with the Comprehensive Plan; and
      (8)   Compatibility with adjacent and surrounding land use, zoning
patterns, and patterns of development.
   (C)   Application information. In addition to the general application
information for an interim use permit in §
150.284, the following specific application information shall be provided by
the applicant for an extractive use interim use permit:
      (1)   A written description of the extractive use and operation thereof,
including GPS coordinates;
      (2)   Amount of truck activity at highest and average levels; ADT
(average daily total) counts;
      (3)   Dust control measures;
      (4)   Buffer area, on all sides of the operation;
      (5)   Hours of operation, along with duration of proposed activity;
      (6)   Truck routes to and from site;
      (7)   Types of barriers established, if necessary, for safety of people
and livestock by the active area of excavation;
      (8)   Property line location, and full legal description of the site and
easement documentation;
      (9)   Reclamation plans;
      (10)   Plans for screening from adjacent properties;
      (11)   Plans for drainage from the site;
      (12)   Long range plans for the site, phase development, and reclamation;
      (13)   Anticipated vegetative and topographic alterations;
      (14)   Proposed mitigation of effects on wildlife;
      (15)   Erosion and stormwater control plan;
      (16)   Proposed mitigation for cultural and/or archaeological sites;
      (17)   Noise abatement plan; and
      (18)   A description of all land uses within one-mile radius of the
proposed extraction site.
   (D)   Site plan. In addition to the general application information for an
interim use permit in §
150.284, the following site plan information shall be provided by the applicant
for an extractive use conditional use permit:
      (1)   Location of all extractive use operations;
      (2)   Horizontal and vertical dimensions of the extractive site;
      (3)   All setbacks from roads and adjacent property lines;
      (4)   Location, size, and use of all structures on the parcel;
      (5)   Location of all adjacent structures and their uses within one-
quarter of a mile;
      (6)   Area of excavation or phases of proposed excavation;
      (7)   Extent of vegetation in buffet area;
      (8)   All lakes, streams, and wetlands on property;
      (9)   Location of proposed stock piles or slag piles;
      (10)   Location of reclamation materials;
      (11)   Depth to saturated soil and average water table depth;
      (12)   All wells, both proposed and existing, all water sources and
discharge sites; and
      (13)   USGS topographical map of the area delineating the site boundaries
and access road.
   (E)   DNR permit. If applicant excavates into groundwater or below, a permit
must also be obtained from the State DNR or other statutory regulatory
agencies, pursuant to M.S. § 103G.245, as amended from time to time. Copy of
permit shall be on file prior to commencement of operations.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.220 REQUIRED CONDITIONS FOR EXTRACTIVE USES.
   In addition to the general conditions that may be imposed on an interim use
permit in §
150.284, the following specific conditions shall be imposed on conditional use
permits for extractive uses.
   (A)   Buffer area. A 50-foot buffer area, and additional area needed to
maintain a three-to-one slope, shall be established between the extractive use
site and the property line containing the extractive use. This buffer area may
be altered through a written agreement with the adjacent property owner. Proof
of the agreement shall be filed with the city and recorded with the County
Recorder and specifically shall state what activities may take place in the
buffer area. Without such agreement, the buffer area may be used under the
following circumstances.
      (1)   The buffer area may contain the haul road if it is determined by
the city that for safety purposes, the extractive site access needs to be
within the buffer area.
      (2)   The haul road may also be placed in the buffer area to avoid
wetlands.
   (B)   Depth to groundwater separation. The applicant must indicate depth to
groundwater table in plan. Boring may be required. A minimum separation of one
foot above the groundwater table must be maintained unless permit is on file.
   (C)   Reclamation during operation. All slopes shall be stabilized,
equipment and structures removed, topsoil properly placed, and permanent
seeding established, banks rounded, and other reclamation actions completed on
an ongoing basis.
      (1)   Slope the banks at a minimum of three-to-one and otherwise properly
guard and keep any pit or excavation in such condition so as not to be
dangerous from caving or sliding banks.
         (a)   The tops of banks shall be rounded to conform to the surrounding
topography.
         (b)   Properly drain, fill, or level any excavation, after created, so
as to make the same safe and healthful as the Planning Commission/Board of
Adjustment shall determine.
      (2)   All trees, brush, stumps, and any other debris removed for the sole
purpose of operation of an extractive use site shall be disposed of in a manner
acceptable to the Fire Warden and the local Solid Waste Department, A copy of
the letter of acceptance shall be filed with the city. In no case shall
vegetation from over a ten-acre area be kept on the property unless it is
burned or buried.
      (3)   Keep any extractive use, excavation, or impounded waters within the
limits for which the particular permit is granted.
      (4)   Before any permit is issued, the applicant must submit a
reclamation plan for approval by the city. The plan shall meet the following
minimum reclamation standards.
         (a)   Reclamation of the site within one year of the expiration of the
operator permit. All buildings, structures, and plants incidental to such
operation shall be dismantled and removed by, and at the expense of, the
extraction operator last operating such buildings.
         (b)   The peaks and depressions of the area shall be graded and
backfilled to a surface which will result in a topography in generally
substantial conformity to the land area immediately surrounding, and which will
minimize erosion due to rainfall. No finished slope shall exceed a three-to-one
slope ratio.
         (c)   Reclaimed areas shall be surfaced with soil of a quality at
least equal to the topsoil of land areas immediately surrounding, and to be
seeded with compatible plants.
         (d)   Such required topsoil shall be planted with legumes and grasses.
Trees and shrubs may also be planted, but not as a substitute for legumes and
grasses. Such planting shall adequately retard soil erosions, and be based on
SWCD recommendations.
         (e)   Extractive use sites may also be reclaimed for wetland
mitigation or creation and, if it is the intent of the operator to reclaim in
that manner, it must be done pursuant to a plan approved by the city.
         (f)   Reclamation must occur within one year of the cease of
operation.
      (5)   Interim use permits for extractive uses shall be reviewed by staff
every two years at no additional cost to the applicant.
      (6)   The extractive use operation shall not adversely affect the quality
or quantity of surface or subsurface water resources as defined by MPCA, DNR,
USACOE, or MDH. Surface water originating outside and passing through the
extraction district shall, at its point of departure from the mining site, be
of equal quality to the water at the point where it enters the mining site. The
mining operator shall perform any water treatment necessary to comply with this
provision.
      (7)   No processing equipment, such as screening, crushing, washing
plants, and the like may operate closer than 1,000 feet to a residence in
existence at time of application unless the written consent of the resident is
on file with the city.
      (8)   Hours of operation shall be set by the Planning Commission/Board of
Adjustment.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.221 PERFORMANCE SECURITY.
   The Planning Commission/Board of Adjustment shall require performance
security, as specified in §
150.290, in an amount sufficient to pay all costs associated with restoration
of the extractive use site.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.235 MANUFACTURED AND PRE-BUILT HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   General. Manufactured housing development shall be considered a form
of PUD and administered as a conditional use in the zoning district where said
use is allowed. Development of this type creates a heavy demand and reliance on
municipal type facilities, including roads, sewer, water, and fire protection.
In addition, these developments are often the most dense in a community
requiring heavier streets, more public recreation facilities, and nearby
shopping.
   (B)   Minimum standards.
      (1)   A State Department of Health permit shall be required.
      (2)   Parcel size shall be a minimum of 20 acres.
      (3)   At least two acres shall be set aside for parks and recreation.
      (4)   Minimum individual lot dimensions shall be 60 feet by 140 feet.
      (5)   At least 20% of the land shall be in common ownership not used for
individual lots.
      (6)   The common roadway area, where private, shall be a minimum of 40
feet wide with a 24-foot wide bituminous surfaced road.
      (7)   There shall be a minimum of two and a maximum of three parking
spaces for each unit.
      (8)   Each unit shall be a minimum of 640 square feet.
      (9)   All units must be skirted, unless placed on an enclosed foundation.
      (10)   Landscaping shall be required as per the direction of the Planning
Commission.
      (11)   When served by public utilities, there shall be individualized
sewer, water, and electrical connection for each site.
      (12)   Solid waste storage and removal shall be centralized within the
development and shall be the responsibility of the owner of the development.
      (13)   Each unit must meet the requirements of the State Building Code,
HUD standards, and M.S. §§ 327.15 through 327.35, as they may be amended from
time to time; and shall be no older than five years at time of installation,
and have the required state seal attached.
      (14)   Sufficient storm shelter shall be provided to accommodate all
residents of the development.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.236 CAMPGROUNDS/CAMPSITES.
   (A)   General. Campgrounds/RV parks shall be considered a form of planned
unit development and administered thereunder as conditional uses in the zone
where said use is allowed, except no density increases will be considered.
   (B)   Minimum parcel size. No campground or recreational vehicle park shall
be allowed on a parcel of less than ten acres.
   (C)   Dwelling site requirements. The dwelling sites must conform to the
State Department of Health standards and the following:
      (1)   Campsites or recreational vehicle sites shall have a minimum of
3,000 square feet designated for each family unit, with a minimum of 40 feet,
center to center;
      (2)   A strip of land with a minimum width of 40 feet shall be reserved
for a service road adjacent to each of the designated sites;
      (3)   Parking shall be off the road;
      (4)   Recreational facilities as determined by PUD;
      (5)   A water system capable of providing 100 gallons per site, per day,
at 20 psi at the most remote fixture for RV sites, or within 400 feet of each
campsite for non-RV sites;
      (6)   Conforming onsite sewage collection and disposal system sized for
100 gallons per campsite, per day;
      (7)   Solid waste facilities consisting of one 30 gallon can for each
four campsites or one dumpster for each 20 sites, constructed to prevent
overturning or cover removal by animals, and screened;
      (8)   Firepit for each campsite;
      (9)   Campsites for recreational vehicles shall have sewer connection,
water connection, and electric connection, or recreational vehicles shall be
self-contained, and a wastewater disposal station for the first and each 100
such vehicles at least 50 feet from the nearest campsite shall be provided;
      (10)   Drinking water and restroom facilities with showers shall be
provided, all within 400 feet of every site not served with full facilities;
      (11)   Grass or other complete ground cover shall be maintained, except
in parking areas and roads;
      (12)   Evidence shall be provided, prior to final approval, that the
licenses and approval process of the State Department of Health has been
adhered to;
      (13)   All sites shall be well drained; and
      (14)   Sufficient storm shelter shall be provided to accommodate all
occupants of the campground.
   (D)   Submission requirements. The submission requirements for a campground
shall be the same as PUDs, except as determined not applicable by the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.237 HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   General. Each home occupation in the city shall require a permit. Home
occupation permits are not transferable to a new owner/renter/occupant, thus
the permit will not run with the property, nor be transferable to a different
property.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   All business activities, including storage, shall be inside
buildings or completely screened from adjacent properties.
      (2)   All activities shall be clearly incidental to the use of the
property for residential purposes. Not more than 25% of the gross floor area of
the residence or 50% of the gross floor area of a garage or storage building
shall be used for commercial purposes.
      (3)   No home occupation shall be conducted between the hours of 10:00
p.m. and 7:00 a.m. unless said occupation is contained entirely within the
principal building and will not require any on-street parking facilities.
      (4)   Not more than two non-residents may be employed on the premises by
the home occupation.
      (5)   On the premises, retail sales will be allowed only of products
manufactured on those premises unless specifically authorized by conditional
use permit.
      (6)   No articles for sale shall be displayed so as to be visible from
the street.
      (7)   All activities will be controlled to prevent nuisance problems of
noise, vibration, smoke, dust, fumes, or litter.
      (8)   The home occupation shall not generate more than two customer
vehicles at one time. Off-street parking shall be provided, but no more than
two spaces.
      (9)   No mechanical or electrical equipment shall be used if the
operation of such equipment interferes unreasonably with the desired quiet
residential environment of the neighborhood or if the health and safety of the
residents is endangered. No equipment shall be used in the home occupation
which will create electrical interference to surrounding properties.
      (10)   A person having a home occupation shall provide proof of meeting
the requirements of this division (B) upon request by the city.
   (C)   Yard sales/garage sales. Yard sales and garage sales do not require a
home occupation permit so long as they do not exceed seven cumulative days in
one calendar year.
   (D)   Private automobile sales. One automobile displayed for sale on a
property shall not require a home occupation permit so long as not more than
two automobiles are sold over 30 cumulative days per calendar year.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.238 AUTO SALVAGE YARDS/JUNKYARDS.
   (A)   Auto salvage yards are to be allowed only as a service to the
community. No more than two will be allowed within the city limits.
   (B)   Such facilities are subject to the following, in addition to CUP
criteria and conditions.
      (1)   Onsite sales are allowed along with parts salvage.
      (2)   Fencing/screening sufficient to prevent the facility and all
salvaged materials from being seen from a public roadway or adjacent property
shall be provided.
      (3)   A defined perimeter must be approved and maintained.
      (4)   The facility shall not be located within a drainage way or wetland.
      (5)   Landscaping, in addition to the required screening, may be required
by the Planning and Zoning Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.239 LANDFILLS.
   (A)   Landfills are not allowed in the city due to the close proximity to
the lakes and streams. The county has the responsibility for this service.
   (B)   Disposal of trees, stumps, rock, brush, and other natural products by
burying is allowed on construction sites as determined by the permit.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.240 OUTDOOR WOOD BURNING FURNACES.
   (A)   All outdoor wood burning furnaces shall be set back at least 100 feet
from all property lines and at least 300 feet from the nearest occupied
building not served by an outdoor wood burning furnace.
   (B)   The minimum height for any outdoor wood burning furnace shall meet or
exceed the manufacturer’s guidelines.
   (C)   All outdoor wood burning furnaces installed after the effective date
of this chapter shall be EPA Phase II qualified.
   (D)   Only the following materials may be burned in the wood burning
furnaces: biomass pellets, corn, firewood, and clean, untreated lumber, or
other wood products prepared or cut to length appropriate for burning.
   (E)   All requirements for installation and maintenance shall be met,
including, but not limited to, local, state, and federal regulations and
manufacturer’s specifications.
   (F)   If the use of an outdoor wood burning furnace creates a human health
hazard or a public nuisance as determined by the Zoning Administrator or other
authorized agent of the city, continued use of said outdoor wood burning
furnace shall be prohibited until all necessary corrections have been made to
the satisfaction of the city.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.241 KEEPING OF CHICKENS.
   (A)   Purpose of chickens. It is recognized that the ability to cultivate
one’s own food is a sustainable activity that can also be a rewarding pastime.
Therefore, it is the purpose and intent of this section to permit the keeping
and maintenance of chicken hens for eggs and meat sources in a clean and
sanitary manner that is not a nuisance to or detrimental to the public health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      AT LARGE. A chicken out of its chicken run, off the premises, or not
under the custody and control of the owner.
      CHICKEN. A female chicken or hen.
      CHICKEN COOP. A structure providing housing for chickens, made of wood or
other similar materials, that provides shelter from the elements.
       CHICKEN RUN. A fenced outside yard for the keeping and exercising of
chickens.
      OWNER. The resident, property owner, custodian, or keeper of any chicken.
      PREMISES. Any platted lot or group of contiguous lots, parcels, or tracts
of land.
   (C)   Permit. No person shall maintain a chicken coop and/or chicken run in
the residential districts unless granted a permit by the city. The permit shall
be subject to all terms and conditions of this section and any additional
conditions deemed necessary by the city to protect the public health, safety,
and welfare. The necessary permit may be obtained from the City Clerk-
Treasurer’s office and shall be valid for three years. Included with the
information required prior to issuance of the permit must be a scaled diagram
that indicates the location of any chicken coop and run, and the approximate
size and distance from adjoining structures and property lines. A permit for
the keeping of chickens may be revoked or suspended by the Council for any
violation of this section following written notice and a public hearing.
   (D)   General permit requirements. In the case of rental residential
property, including multi-family residential property, written permission must
be given by the property owner for a tenant to keep or harbor chickens on said
residential premises. It is unlawful for any person to own, control, keep,
maintain, or harbor hen chickens on any premises in the R-1 and R-2 Zoning
Districts within the city unless issued a permit to do so as provided herein.
      (1)   The keeping of chickens shall not be allowed on properties within
the R-1 and R-2 Zoning Districts of less than one-quarter acre in size. No
permit shall be issued for the keeping or harboring per the following maximum
numbers:
         (a)   Tier I consisting of one to six chickens: minimum one-quarter
acre;
         (b)   Tier II consisting of seven to 12 chickens: minimum one-half
acre; and
         (c)   Tier III consisting of 13 to 20 chickens: minimum one acre.
      (2)   The keeping of any poultry besides hen chickens is prohibited in
all zoning districts.
      (3)   All chicken coops and runs must meet the setback requirements of
the Building and Zoning Codes. If applicable, an electrical permit is required.
      (4)   No person shall keep roosters or adult male chickens on any
property within the city.
      (5)   Chickens are specifically limited to the following designated
zoning districts: AG, RR, R-1, and R-2.
      (6)   Permits may be revoked due to cruelty to the chickens, if the
chickens become a nuisance, or any violation of non-compliance of this section.
      (7)   Outdoor slaughtering of chickens in the R-l and R-2 Zoning
Districts is prohibited.
      (8)   Chicken fighting shall not be allowed anywhere within the city
limits.
      (9)   Chickens shall not be housed in a residential house.
      (10)   Chickens must be confined at all times in a chicken coop or
chicken run. Chicken coops and chicken runs shall comply with the following
requirements:
         (a)   Located in the side or rear yard;
         (b)   The shelter shall be located closer to the chicken owner’s
dwelling than to any of the neighboring dwellings;
         (c)   Any mobile coop or rolling coop must meet all of the required
setbacks at all times;
         (d)   Meet the setback of at least 25 feet from any residential
dwelling on any adjacent lot and at least ten feet from the property line;
         (e)   Coops must provide protection from the weather and predators;
         (f)   A minimum of one nest box per four to five birds. Chickens like
to be up high, so a place for them to roost is important;
         (g)   There should be a well insulated area with a light bulb or heat
lamp for the winter months as well as ventilation for fresh air; and
         (h)   A minimum of four square feet per bird, including outdoor space,
is required. Coop must not exceed ten square feet per chicken in size and must
not exceed eight feet in total height.
      (11)   Chicken coops must either be:
         (a)   Elevated with a clear open space of at least 24 inches between
the ground surface and framing/floor of the coop; or
         (b)   The coop floor, foundation, and footings must be constructed
using rodent-resistant construction.
   Example of simple coop design for up to 16 hens from Storey’s Guide to
Raising Chickens.
      (12)   Chicken feed must be kept in an enclosed, rodent-proof container.
      (13)   (a)   All premises in which chickens are kept or maintained shall
be kept clean from filth, garbage, and any substances which attract rodents.
The coop and its surroundings must be cleaned frequently enough to control
odor.
         (b)   Manure shall not be allowed to accumulate in any way that causes
an unsanitary condition or causes odors detectible on another property.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-22-24, passed 10-11-2022; Ord. O-24-35, passed
12-9-2024) Penalty, see §  Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.242 TEMPORARY FAMILY HEALTH CARE DWELLINGS.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, Subd. 9, as amended from
time to time, the city opts out of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, as
amended from time to time, which defines and regulations temporary family
health care dwellings.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
SUBDIVISION STANDARDS
§ 150.255 SKETCH PLAN.
   A sketch plan shall contain the following data:
   (A)   Existing conditions.
      (1)   Approximate exterior boundary drawn to a scale of not less than one
inch equals 100 feet with the scale and northerly direction shown thereon;
      (2)   Indication of floodplains, wetlands, slopes over 12%, bluffs, tree
cover, and ordinary high water mark;
      (3)   Use of adjoining properties, including street locations, structure
locations, and property lines;
      (4)   Significant historical sites;
      (5)   Approximate locations of existing structures;
      (6)   Approximate locations of existing wells and sewage treatment
systems;
      (7)   Location by section, town, and range with small scale sketch
showing location; and
      (8)   The existing zoning classification and the zoning classification of
adjacent parcels.
   (B)   Proposed design.
      (1)   Proposed roads and walkways;
      (2)   Proposed lots with building setbacks and bluff impact zones;
      (3)   Proposed green space; and
      (4)   Proposed city sewer and water system connections or sewage
treatment systems and well locations.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.256 PRELIMINARY PLAT, PRELIMINARY CONDOMINIUM PLAT, OR METES AND BOUNDS
SUBDIVISION RESULTING IN AT LEAST ONE PARCEL LESS THAN TEN ACRES.
   A preliminary plat, preliminary condominium plat, or metes and bounds
subdivision resulting in at least one parcel less than ten acres shall contain
the following data (except as waived in advance by the Planning Commission),
along with other reasonable information required by the Commission to make a
proper evaluation of the proposal:
   (A)   Existing conditions.
      (1)   Boundary lines with lengths and bearings drawn to exact scale of no
less than one inch equals 100 feet taken from a boundary survey by a registered
land surveyor with the legal description of the property, total acreage, name
of the fee owner, developer, and surveyor. North arrow and scale;
      (2)   Topography consisting of two-foot contour intervals, or, at the
discretion of the Planning Commission during the sketch plan review, ten-foot
contour intervals taken from USGS mapping with additional field determined spot
elevations added to define drainage ways, 100-year floodplains, wetlands,
slopes, and the ordinary high water mark. Near-shore aquatic conditions,
including depths, types of bottom, sediments, and aquatic vegetation;
      (3)   Tree cover limits, specimen tree locations;
      (4)   Soils as determined by hand borings on a random basis, to determine
depth to groundwater at lower elevations and suitability for sewage treatment
systems. At least one boring for each unit unless waived by the Planning
Commission;
      (5)   Location of adjoining streets, wetlands, structures, and property
lines within 200 feet of subject parcel, including acreage of any property
owned by the developer not included in the preliminary plat;
      (6)   Significant historical sites;
      (7)   Significant wildlife habitat areas;
      (8)   Endangered, threatened, rare, or critical species, both flora and
fauna;
      (9)   Date of boundary survey, topography, and proposed plat;
      (10)   Layout of existing streets, walkways, driveways, blocks, lots, and
structures drawn to the same scale;
      (11)   Locations of existing wells and sewage treatment systems;
      (12)   Location by section, town, and range with small scale sketch
showing location within the city; and
      (13)   The existing zoning classification and the zoning classification
of adjacent parcels.
   (B)   Proposed design.
      (1)   Layout of proposed streets, walkways, driveways, blocks, lots, and
buildings if known, drawn to same scale as existing data;
      (2)   Dimensions scaled to nearest five feet of all lot lines, street
widths, easement widths, and lakeshore lengths;
      (3)   Buildable areas of proposed lots;
      (4)   Structure setback lines from streets, lot lines, and ordinary high
water mark and a designation of the buildable area on the parcel;
      (5)   Proposed green space with area shown;
      (6)   Proposed public dedication areas other than streets or walkways
with the area shown;
      (7)   Proposed city sewer or water system connections and extensions,
existing and proposed, with grades shown;
      (8)   Potential locations and estimated depth to water table for all
proposed onsite sewage disposal systems, two per lot;
      (9)   Information regarding adequacy of domestic water supply;
      (10)   Proposed storm drainage system and erosion control, both during
and after construction activities;
      (11)   Proposed street standards and profiles;
      (12)   Potential principal structure and accessory structure locations
and elevations;
      (13)   Extent of anticipated vegetation and topographic alterations;
      (14)   Proposed covenants;
      (15)   Name of subdivision and proposed street names, which shall not
duplicate or be alike another plat previously recorded; and
      (16)   Stages of development proposed.
   (C)   Authority. Evidence of authority to subdivide the parcel consisting of
fee ownership or written concurrence of fee owners.
   (D)   Cost/benefit analysis. An analysis of the ongoing cost to the city to
provide services and maintenance to the development shall be prepared using a
form provided by the city. This cost shall be compared on the same form to the
estimated increased valuation of the property and the corresponding tax
revenue. The development shall not be approved if public subsidy is required
for ongoing services and maintenance.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.257 FINAL PLAT OR FINAL CONDOMINIUM PLAT.
   A final plat or final condominium plat shall contain all elements required
by this chapter and M.S. Chapters 505, 515A, or 515B respectively, as they may
be amended from time to time, and the State Plat Manual, including, but not
limited to, the following:
   (A)   Conformance with approved preliminary plat or agreed upon portion
thereof;
   (B)   Design standards in conformance with this chapter;
   (C)   Preparation by a registered land surveyor. Signatures of the Mayor,
Clerk-Treasurer, County Auditor, County Treasurer, and all parties with legal
interest in the fee ownership of the land;
   (D)   Dedication to the public of easements, rights-of-way, walkways, and
land to become public;
   (E)   Drainage and utility easements over natural drainage ways and
significant wetlands;
   (F)   Reservation of private streets in outlots;
   (G)   Covenants shall be filed concurrently with the plat and shall be
required to create an association of homeowners if a privately maintained
cluster sewer or water system is proposed for subdivision.
      (1)   The association shall consist of all benefitted lot owners.
      (2)   The association shall be responsible for all costs of maintenance
and replacement.
      (3)   The costs shall be uniformly divided by lots served.
      (4)   The costs shall be lienable against the lots by the association if
payment is not forthcoming.
      (5)   The status of the facility shall be clearly stated as subject to
perpetual private maintenance.
      (6)   Provisions shall be made for emergency access or emergency
maintenance by the city with subsequent reimbursement by the association.
   (H)   Concurrent documents:
      (1)   Title opinion, less than 60 days old, acceptable to the City
Attorney and showing conformance with those parties represented by signature on
the plat as holding interest in the property being divided;
      (2)   Financial security acceptable to the City Attorney in the amount of
125% of the cost estimated by the City Engineer for the uncompleted required
improvements; and
      (3)   Development contract acceptable to the City Attorney, if required.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.258 DESIGN LAYOUT STANDARDS; MINIMUM.
   The following design standards shall be considered minimum acceptable
requirements in the review of the proposed subdivision by the Zoning
Administrator, City Attorney, City Engineer, Planning Commission, and Council,
except as waived by variance approved by the Board of Adjustment.
   (A)   The land shall be properly zoned and suitable in its natural state for
the intended purpose with minimal alteration required. Land subject to
flooding, land below the ordinary high water mark, wetlands, areas with high
water table, bluffs, lands with slopes exceeding 12%, or land containing other
significant constraints upon future intended usage, shall not be considered in
the minimum size of a lot. The suitability analysis for each lot shall also
consider soil and rock formations with severe limitations for development,
severe erosion potential, inadequate water supply or sewage treatment
capabilities, near-shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-based
recreation, important fish and wildlife habitat, presence of significant
historic sites, or any other feature of the natural land likely to be harmful
to the health, safety, or welfare of future residents of the proposed
subdivision or of the community.
   (B)   All non-conforming structures and uses shall be brought into
conformity during the subdivision process, except as specifically waived by
motion of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Each lot shall be adjacent to public sewer or shall have a minimum
contiguous lawn area that is free of limiting factors sufficient for the
construction of two standard soil treatment sewage systems.
   (D)   Provisions for water-based recreation where near-shore aquatic
conditions are unsuitable for direct access.
   (E)   Lot areas and dimensions shall conform to the requirements of the
Zoning Ordinance, without variance.
   (F)   Lot layouts shall be compatible with the existing layout of adjoining
properties and/or shall not constrain the future development of adjacent
properties if those properties were to be developed as per this chapter.
   (G)   Side lot lines shall be substantially at right angles to straight road
lines or radial to curved road lines, radial to lake or stream shores, and
shall not contain bends or jogs unless topographic conditions necessitate a
different arrangement. Existing structures shall not be construed to be a
topographic condition.
   (H)   Each lot shall have a minimum of 33 feet of frontage on a designated
right-of-way. Commonly owned property or green space used for access in a
planned unit development shall have a minimum of 33 feet of frontage on a
public right-of-way.
   (I)   Proposed streets shall conform to the adopted road plan of the city,
county, and state highway plans and existing boundary conditions.
      (1)   Streets shall be related to the topography so as to produce useable
lots and reasonable gradients not in excess of 10% for collector roads and 12%
for minor roads.
      (2)   Public access shall be given to adjacent properties unless the
topography clearly indicates future connection is not feasible.
      (3)   When parcels abutting arterial or collector roads are subdivided,
no new access points shall be created unless an equal number of access points
are removed, unless access points are created not less than 500 feet apart, in
which case, there shall be no limit on the number of accessed allowed.
      (4)   Half streets or connections of half streets to partial streets
without providing for the full required right-of-way will not be permitted.
      (5)   Streets will be designed as collectors or local streets in
accordance with the city road plan.
      (6)   The number of streets that terminate without a through connection
shall be minimized, and the street connected to a cul-de-sac (turnaround) shall
not exceed 1,200 feet in length.
      (7)   Access shall be given to all adjacent properties when required by
the Planning Commission. All streets intended to be extended to adjoining
property shall be provided with a temporary cul-de-sac with the sides on a
temporary easement, which will revert to the adjoining lot owner when released
by the city. Landlocked areas shall not be created.
      (8)   (a)   Right-of-way shall be dedicated to the public:
 
Arterials               100 feet or as determined by the county
Collectors              66 feet
Cul-de-sac (turnaround) 68-foot radius
Local streets           66 feet
 
         (b)   Additional right-of-way may be required to promote public safety
and convenience if special conditions require, such as intersections, sight
lines on corners, or excessive cut or fill sections.
      (9)   Intersections.
         (a)   Street centerlines shall intersect at not less than 75 degrees.
         (b)   Street jogs shall be no less than 200 feet from centerline to
centerline.
         (c)   Gradients at intersections and for 50 feet approaching on each
side of an intersection shall not exceed 2%. The approach shall contain no
grades greater than 7% for 200 feet on each side of the intersection.
      (10)   Roads, driveways, and parking areas shall meet structure setbacks
and shall not be placed within bluff and shore impact zones.
      (11)   Street names shall conform to the pattern of the city and continue
an existing name on the same alignment, where determined applicable by the
Planning Commission. Street names shall be coordinated with the County
Surveyor’s Office.
   (J)   Easements shall be provided for public utilities or drainage where
required by the Planning Commission and shall be following widths, minimum:
 
Drainage way                               10 feet
Electrical, telephone, or cable television 10 feet
Sanitary sewer                             40 feet
Storm sewer                                20 feet
Watermain                                  20 feet
 
   (K)   Lots requiring variances to allow their use for the intended purposes
or requiring holding tanks for sewage shall not be allowed.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.259 SURVEY STANDARDS.
   Survey standards shall be those required by M.S. Chapter 505, as it may be
amended from time to time, including the placement of all monuments, including
block corners, lot corners, curve points, and lake survey line points on lot
lines. All U.S., state, county, and other official bench marks, monuments, or
triangulation points in or adjacent to the proposed subdivision shall be
preserved in position unless relocation is approved by the controlling agency.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.260 STREET IMPROVEMENT STANDARDS.
   All streets within the subdivision shall be constructed by the subdivider or
otherwise provided for by agreement in a development contract between the
subdivider and the City Council with all expenses borne by the subdivider.
Local streets and collector streets shall be constructed according to the
established minimum standards and shall be approved by the City Engineer.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.261 SANITARY PROVISION STANDARDS.
   No land shall be subdivided for building purposes unless two adequate sites
are available on the newly created lot for a conforming onsite sewage treatment
system, or the subdivider constructs a cluster system serving the lots to be
owned and maintained by a property owner’s association, or the lot is provided
with sanitary service by a municipal sewer system at the expense of the
subdivider.
   (A)   A municipal sewer system shall be extended to the lot at the
subdivider’s expense by agreement in a development contract between the
subdivider and the City Council if the existing system is adjacent to the
parcel being subdivided or reasonably close in the opinion of the Engineer and
Planning Commission or if the density of the proposed development necessitates
a municipal sewer connection. The sewer shall also be extended to the exterior
boundary of the subdivision at locations designated by the Engineer.
   (B)   Onsite systems or cluster onsite systems shall conform to State
Pollution Control Agency standards, Individual Sewage Treatment Systems
Standard, Minn. Rules Chapter 7080, as it may be amended from time to time, and
provide for two treatment sites for drain fields.
   (C)   Municipal sewage facilities shall be designed by a Registered
Engineer, approved by the City Engineer, approved by the State Pollution
Control Agency, and installed according to “Standard Utilities Specifications,”
City Engineer’s Association of the state.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.262 WATER SUPPLY STANDARDS.
   (A)   The subdivider shall be responsible to provide the proposed
subdivision with adequate spacing between building sites, onsite sewage
disposal sites, and potential well locations to allow the well installations in
conformance with the City Zoning Ordinance requirements, or the subdivider
shall provide the lot with a cluster water supply system to be owned and
operated by a property owner’s association, or the subdivider shall provide
municipal water service to the lot.
   (B)   A municipal water system shall be extended to the lot at the expense
of the subdivider by agreement in the development contract between the
subdivider and the Council if the existing municipal system is adjacent to the
parcel being subdivided or reasonably close, in the opinion of the engineer and
Planning Commission, or if the density of the proposed development necessitates
a municipal water connection. The watermain shall also be extended to the
exterior boundary at locations designated by the Engineer.
   (C)   Onsite wells or cluster water systems shall conform to the State
Department of Health Rules and Regulations MHD 210-230 “Water Well Construction
Code,” and the cluster system shall receive the approval of the City Engineer.
   (D)   Municipal water facilities shall be designed by a registered engineer,
approved by the City Engineer, approved by the State Department of Health and
installed according to “Standard Utilities Specifications,” City Engineer’s
Association of the state.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.263 DRAINAGE/GRADING STANDARDS.
   The subdivider shall consider the retention of natural stormwater/snowmelt
drainage patterns in the design of his or her proposed subdivision. The
subdivider shall be responsible to provide adequate drainage facilities for
this development and upstream properties.
   (A)   All subdivisions shall demonstrate provisions for adequate surface or
subsurface runoff of stormwater and snow melt directed to natural drainage
ways.
   (B)   All natural drainage ways draining properties upstream from the
subject property shall be identified and preserved, and no structures shall be
less than one foot above the water level in the drainage way created by a storm
of a 100-year, 24-hour rain event. No filling of areas inundated by the 100-
year, 24-hour rain event shall be allowed.
   (C)   Additional runoff for a 100-year, 24-hour rain event from all streets
and building sites at build-out shall be accounted for and maintained within
the development.
   (D)   Natural or human-made storage areas shall be utilized where needed and
shall be designated by drainage and utility easement by the subdivider. All
storage areas shall be vegetated and designed to lower naturally after a storm.
   (E)   All drainage structures or improvements provided shall be sufficient
in size to pass a 100-year, 24-hour storm event through the natural drainage
way.
   (F)   All areas disturbed by grading, street construction, or structure
installation shall be covered with a minimum of three inches natural topsoil
and seeded. Drainage ways over 2% in gradient shall, at a minimum, be sodded.
   (G)   All parking areas, heavy use areas, storage areas, and impervious area
shall be diverted to a basin designed to allow entrapment of silts and
nutrients prior to discharge to a natural drainage way.
   (H)   There shall be no discharge of untreated stormwater to a water body.
   (I)   Erosion control measures shall be provided as needed to prevent and/or
contain erosion.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.264 DEDICATION TO THE PUBLIC; STANDARDS.
   (A)   In accordance with the provisions of M.S. § 462.358, as it may be
amended from time to time, the subdivider shall dedicate, to the public, lands
for highway rights-of-way, street rights-of-way, utility easements, wetland
easements, and similar lands required for perpetual and public improvements.
   (B)   In addition, for every new subdivision of land involving three or more
lots which are to be developed for residential purposes, the Planning
Commission, with the concurrence of the City Council, shall require a payment
to the city, in lieu of a land dedication for conservation purposes or for
public use as parks, recreational facilities, playgrounds, trails, wetlands, or
open space, of a sum not to exceed 10% of the fair market value of the land to
be subdivided. The fair market value of the land to be subdivided shall be the
value as determined by the County Assessor at the time of final plat approval.
The amount of the payment shall be set by the Planning Commission, with the
concurrence of the City Council, after taking into consideration the open
space, park, recreational, or common areas and facilities which the applicant
proposes to reserve for public use within tire subdivision. Funds received by
the city, in lieu of land dedication, shall be placed in a special fund in
accordance with M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 2b, as it may be amended from time to
time.
   (C)   All dedications shall be included in the dedicated portion of the
plat, included in the development contract, or received by the city in warranty
deed prior to the approval of the final plat, without further restrictions or
reservations.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.265 IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Prior to the submission of a final plat application and prior to
approval of a metes and bounds subdivision, the subdivider shall provide for
the construction of the required improvements at his, her, or their expense and
shall have the work completed or shall enter a development contract and give
bond or other financial assurance satisfactory to the Council in an amount
equal to 125% of the estimated cost of the uncompleted improvements except as
provided in division (C) below. The bond shall be released by the City Council
upon the recommendation of the City Engineer indicating the improvements are
satisfactorily complete.
   (B)   The required improvements shall conform to the standards of this
subchapter and shall include street cross-sections, signs, and lighting in
conformance with adopted city standards.
   (C)   The subdivider may request the city to construct municipal sewage
facilities, municipal water facilities, or bituminous street surfacing with all
costs to be assessed against the benefitted properties. If the City Council
agrees, the subdivider shall enter a development contract and give a bond or
other financial assurance satisfactory to the Council in an amount equal to 50%
of the estimated costs. The assessments shall be paid in full upon sale of the
property.
   (D)   All costs of the City Engineer, City Attorney, Bond Council, financial
experts, and other professional costs borne by the city in writing and/or
executing development contracts, estimates of cost, inspectors, financial
arrangements, assessments, and pursuing legal remedies in event of default by
the subdivider, shall be borne by the subdivider or his, her, or their
successors.
   (E)   Before final release of the bond, record drawings shall be provided by
the applicant documenting final locations of improvements.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017) Penalty, see §
150.999
ADMINISTRATION
§ 150.280 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the City Council.
   (B)   Duties of the Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Determine if applications are complete and comply with the terms of
this chapter;
      (2)   Direct or conduct inspections of building, sewage systems, and
other uses of the land to determine compliance with the terms of this chapter;
      (3)   Maintain permanent and current records of this chapter, including,
but not limited to, maps, amendments, land use or use permits, conditional use
permits, variances, appeals and applications, and a separate file for future
conditions or expiration of permits;
      (4)   Review, file, and forward applications for appeals, variances,
conditional uses, and zoning amendments in a timely manner;
      (5)   Enforce the provisions of this chapter by reviewing complaints and
by pursuing contacts with any violator in accordance with standard procedures
as adopted and modified from time to time;
      (6)   Attend meetings and provide research and findings to the Board of
Adjustment/Planning Commission;
      (7)   Issue permitted land use permits upon application for structures on
lots conforming to this chapter when the conditions of this chapter are met; to
issue conditional use permits when directed; to issue notices of a zoning
change when directed;
      (8)   To mail a copy of the findings to an applicant;
      (9)   To file copies of conditional use permits and variances with the
County Recorder;
      (10)   To communicate with the DNR where required by this chapter or
state law;
      (11)   To ensure that the City Council, Planning Commission, and Board
Adjustment review land use application or public hearing applications as
prescribed by state statutes;
      (12)   To conduct periodic and final inspections with a member of the
Planning and Zoning Commission, of property subject to conditions of approval
relating to variances, conditional use permits and other land use applications;
and
      (13)   To issue land use certificates of compliance, when applicable.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator and his or her duly authorized deputies shall
have the right to trespass, consistent with state and federal laws and
precedents, in accordance with §
10.20, within the city in the pursuit of his or her duties.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.281 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Adjustment shall consist of the members of the Planning
Commission.
   (B)   The Board of Adjustment shall elect a Chairperson and a Vice-
Chairperson from among its members. It shall adopt rules or bylaws for the
transaction of its business and shall keep a permanent record of its
proceedings, findings, and determinations. The Board of Adjustment shall cause
all such records of its proceedings, findings, and determinations to be filed
at the City Hall.
   (C)   The meeting of the Board of Adjustment shall be held as specified in
the rules or bylaws, and at other such times as the Chairperson of the Board of
Adjustment shall deem necessary and appropriate.
   (D)   The Board of Adjustment shall have the exclusive power concerning the
following:
      (1)   To hear and decide any appeal from an order, requirement, decision,
or determination made by the Zoning Administrator;
      (2)   To interpret any Management District boundary on the official
zoning map;
      (3)   All decisions by the Board of Adjustment in granting variances, or
in hearing any appeals from administrative order, requirement, decision, or
determination shall be final, except that any aggrieved person, department,
agency, Board of Commission shall have the right to appeal to the District
Court within 30 days after receipt of the notice of the decision made by the
Board of Adjustment.
   (E)   The Board of Adjustment and Appeals authorizes the Planning
Commission, in its advisory role, to make the necessary findings for variance
and appeals. The Board of Adjustment maintains authority to grant variances
from the strict enforcement of standards and provisions prescribed by this
chapter. Variances shall only be granted based upon the criterion prescribed in
§
150.287.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.282 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Organization of the Planning Commission.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members, three who
shall be residents of the city and the remaining two positions filled by
residents and/or property owners within the city. The members of the Planning
Commission shall be appointed by the City Council consistent with the Planning
Commission bylaws as adopted by the City Council. The City Council shall have
the ability to appoint or remove any Commission member by a majority vote of
all five Council members.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chair and a Vice-Chair from
among its members. It shall adopt rules or bylaws for the transaction of its
business and shall keep a permanent public record of its proceedings, findings,
and determinations. The Planning Commission shall cause all such records of its
proceedings, findings, and determinations to be filed at the City Hall.
   (B)   Duties of the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall be
advisory in nature and shall serve at the pleasure of the City Council. In this
advisory role, the Planning Commission shall:
      (1)   Assist the City Council in the formulation of goals, policies, and
programs for the future development of the city;
      (2)   Assist the City Council in the preparation of development controls
designed to promote development consistent with adopted goals and policies;
      (3)   Review applications for conditional use permits and ordinance
amendments, conduct public hearings in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, and make recommendations to the City Council;
      (4)   Review applications for variance requests, conduct the public
hearings, and make recommendations to the Board of Adjustment (City Council);
      (5)   Review subdivision proposals for compliance with the provisions of
this chapter, conduct public hearings, and forward final plat along with
recommendation to the City Council; and
      (6)   Any other such duties as required or requested by the City Council
to further goals and policies in furtherance of the intent of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.283 CONDITIONAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Any use listed as a conditional use in this chapter shall be permitted
only upon application to the Zoning Administrator, public hearing review and
recommendation of the Planning Commission, and approval and issuance of a
conditional use permit by the City Council.
   (B)   All applications for a conditional use permit shall be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator 30 days ahead of the hearing date, accompanied by a
certificate of survey (unless waived by the Zoning Administrator) showing the
details of the proposal and an accurate legal description, along with the
appropriate fee. The fee or contract owner of the property shall sign the
application. The Zoning Administrator shall notify all property owners within a
minimum of 350 feet by regular mail and shall advertise the hearing once in the
legal section of the official newspaper at least ten days ahead of the public
hearing. The Zoning Administrator shall send the same notice ten days in
advance of this hearing to the DNR if the proposed is in shoreland. At the
applicant’s option, the applicant may request a sketch plan review with no
action by the Planning Commission and with no fee by giving 14 days’ notice
thereof to the Zoning Administrator, meeting time permitted.
   (C)   The applicant shall complete the conditional use permit application
approved by the City Council. The application shall contain submittal
requirements, criteria for approval, procedure for consideration, and city
contact information. The city shall not accept applications where the applicant
has past due fees or charges due to the city until the account is made current.
   (D)   In permitting a new conditional use or alteration of an existing
conditional use, the Planning Commission may impose, in addition to the
standards and requirements expressly specified by this chapter, additional
conditions that the Planning Commission considers necessary to protect the best
interest of the surrounding area or the city as a whole. These conditions may
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Increasing the required lot size or yard dimension;
      (2)   Limiting the height, size, or location of buildings;
      (3)   Controlling the location and number of vehicle access points;
      (4)   Increasing the street width;
      (5)   Increasing or decreasing the number of required off-street parking
spaces;
      (6)   Limiting the number, size, location, or lighting of signs;
      (7)   Requiring berming, fencing screening, landscaping, or other
facilities to protect adjacent or nearby property; and
      (8)   Designating sites for open space.
   (E)   The Planning and Zoning Commission shall decide the issue with
consideration to the following.
      (1)   The following must be met.
         (a)   The use or development is an appropriate conditional use in the
land use zone.
         (b)   The use or development, with conditions, conforms to the
Comprehensive Land Use Plan.
         (c)   The use, with conditions, is compatible with the existing
neighborhood.
         (d)   The use, with conditions, would not be injurious to the public
health, safety, welfare, decency, order, comfort, convenience, appearance, or
prosperity of the city.
      (2)   The following must be considered.
         (a)   The conditional use should not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purpose permitted
on that property, nor substantially diminish or impair values in the immediate
vicinity.
         (b)   The conditional use will not impede the normal and orderly
development and improvement of surrounding vacant property for uses predominant
in the area.
         (c)   The conditional requirements at public cost for public
facilities and services and will not be detrimental to the economic welfare of
the community.
         (d)   The conditional use will have vehicular approaches to the
property which are so designed as not to create traffic congestion or an
indifference with traffic on surrounding public thoroughfares.
         (e)   Adequate measures have been taken to provide sufficient off-
street parking and loading space to serve the proposed use.
         (f)   Adequate measures have been taken or will be taken to prevent or
control offensive odor, fumes, dust, noise, and vibration, so none of these
will constitute a nuisance and to control lights and signs in such a manner
that no disturbance to neighboring properties will result.
         (g)   The conditional use will not result in the destruction, loss, or
damage of a natural, scenic, or historical feature of major significance.
         (h)   The conditional use will promote the prevention and control of
pollution of the ground and surface waters, including sedimentation and control
of nutrients.
   (F)   When costs to the city involved in processing and reviewing an
application exceeds the original application fees, the applicant shall
reimburse the city for any additional costs. Such expenses may include, but are
not limited to, payroll, mailing costs, consultant fees, and other professional
services the city may need to retain in reviewing permits.
   (G)   Conditional use permits may be transferable where requested by an
applicant and approved by the Planning Commission.
   (H)   Violations of the conditions of a conditional use permit shall
automatically suspend the permit. A review of the violation shall be conducted
by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall determine conditions
for reinstating the permit or revocation, if applicable.
   (I)   Failure by the owner to act on a conditional use permit within 12
months, or failure to complete the work under a conditional use permit within
two years, unless extended by the Planning Commission, shall void the permit. A
second extension shall require a new public hearing. This provision shall apply
to any conditional use permit outstanding at the time of the adoption of this
chapter.
   (J)   All uses that cease operation for a period of more than six
consecutive months shall be deemed to be discontinued, and the use permit
establishing said use shall become null and void. Reestablishment of said use
shall only be permitted upon obtaining a new conditional use permit.
   (K)   Appeals from the action of the city shall be filed with District Court
within 30 days after City Council action.
   (L)   The conditional use permit shall be filed with the County Recorder
within 45 days. The applicant need not wait for filing to proceed.
   (M)   Planned unit development procedure and submissions procedure is as
follows.
      (1)   The applicant may submit a concept plan to the Planning Commission
for review and discussion at least 14 days prior to the meeting.
      (2)   Based on discussion, the applicant can formally apply by submitting
preliminary documents, prepared with professional help, including as a minimum
the CUP application, and further shall contain the following:
         (a)   Proposed concept of plan operation;
         (b)   Proposed plat or floor plan, if applicable;
         (c)   Proposed recreational amenities;
         (d)   Proposed timing;
         (e)   Proposed final security; and
         (f)   Proposed development contract.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall review the submissions and act on the
application within the required time frame with a complete finding of facts.
      (4)   The applicant shall then proceed within the time frame accepted
under the preliminary proposal to provide final documents as required,
including:
         (a)   Financial security;
         (b)   Development contract;
         (c)   Title opinion;
         (d)   Final plat or floor plan;
         (e)   Surveyor’s plat check;
         (f)   Final covenants and associated documents;
         (g)   Final time schedule;
         (h)   Final site plan which will control development; and
         (i)   MPCA/MnDH approval letter on sewage system and water supply.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.284 INTERIM USE PERMITS.
   Uses defined as interim uses in §
150.038 are allowed by the city pursuant to governing law contained in M.S. §
462.3597, as it may be amended from time to time, after appropriate review and
approval in accordance with the criteria, standards, and procedures for a
conditional use permit contained in §
150.283 and the below requirements contained in this section. An interim use
will be reviewed in the same manner as a conditional use permit, except as
otherwise provided in this section. All submittal requirements in §
150.283 shall be required for interim use permits.
   (A)   Additional standards. In addition to the forgoing, interim uses shall
comply with all of the following standards.
      (1)   The use is allowed in and conforms to the applicable zoning
regulations for the respective zoning district, including applicable
performance standards.
      (2)   The date or event that will terminate the use is identified with
certainty and is included in writing within the approved interim use permit.
      (3)   The use will not impose additional costs on the public if it is
necessary for the public to fully or partially take the property in the future.
      (4)   There is adequate assurance that the property will be left in
suitable condition after the interim use is terminated. The City Council may
require a condition that the owner will provide an appropriate financial surety
to cover the cost of removing the interim use and interim structures upon the
expiration of the interim use permit.
      (5)   The user agrees to any conditions deemed appropriate by the City
Council for the permission of the interim use. Such conditions shall be
included in writing in the issued interim use permit or alternatively in a
written agreement with the user attached to the approved interim use permit.
   (B)   Termination. An interim use permit shall terminate on the happening of
any of the following events, whichever occurs first:
      (1)   The occurrence of the date stated in the interim use permit, which
shall not be for a period greater than five years;
      (2)   The occurrence of the event stated in the interim use permit;
      (3)   Upon violation of conditions under which the permit was issued; or
      (4)   Upon change in the city’s zoning regulations which renders the use
non-conforming.
   (C)   Lapse, extension. Unless the City Council approves a different time in
an approved permit, an interim use permit shall expire without further action
by the Planning Commission or City Council, unless the user/applicant commences
the authorized interim use within one year of the date the interim use permit
issued; or, unless before the expiration of the one year period, the applicant
shall apply for an extension to initiate such use. The request for an extension
by a user/applicant shall be made to the City Clerk-Treasurer, and the user/
applicant shall provide evidence as required by City Clerk-Treasurer sufficient
to demonstrate the user/applicant’s good faith effort to complete or utilize
the use permitted in the interim use permit within the one-year period. A
request for an extension may be granted by the City Clerk-Treasurer for an
additional period up to one year. A denial of an extension by the City Clerk-
Treasurer may be appealed in writing by the user/applicant to the City Council
within ten days of the date of the City Clerk-Treasurer’s decision. The user/
applicant’s written appeal shall state the grounds for the appeal and be
submitted to the City Clerk-Treasurer within the ten-day period. Failure to
timely appeal shall constitute a waiver of the right to appeal and shall not be
considered. A timely filed appeal will be heard by the City Council within 60
days of the date the appeal is received by the City Clerk-Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.285 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variances shall not create a use not provided for in a zoning
district.
   (B)   Variances shall be issued to the property and are not transferable.
   (C)   Variances shall be issued to the property for structures or other
specified uses only after a public hearing and approval by the Board of
Adjustment. All applications for a variance shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator 30 days ahead of the hearing date, accompanied by a certificate
of survey (unless waived by the Zoning Administrator) showing the details of
the proposal and an accurate legal description, along with the appropriate fee.
The fee or contract owner of the property shall sign the application. The
Zoning Administrator shall notify all property owners within a minimum of 350
feet by regular mail and shall advertise the hearing once in the legal section
of the official newspaper at least ten days ahead of the public hearing. The
Zoning Administrator shall send the same notice ten days in advance of this
hearing to the DNR if the proposed is in shoreland. At the applicant’s option,
the applicant may request a sketch plan review with no action by the Planning
Commission and with no fee by giving 14 days’ notice thereof to the Zoning
Administrator, meeting time permitted.
   (D)   The applicant shall complete the variance application approved by the
City Council. The application shall contain submittal requirements, criteria
for approval, procedure for consideration, and city contact information. The
city shall not accept applications where the applicant has past due fees or
charges due to the city until the account is made current.
   (E)   Variances shall be decided within the required time frame with
consideration for the following:
      (1)   The applicant establishes that there are practical difficulties, as
defined in this chapter, in complying with the official control;
      (2)   The deviation from this chapter with any attached conditions will
still be in harmony with the general purposes and intent of this chapter and
the Comprehensive Plan; and
      (3)   The variance will not create a land use not permitted in the zone.
   (F)   The Board of Adjustment may impose conditions in the granting of
variances. A condition must be directly related to and must bear a rough
proportionality to the impact created by the variance.
   (G)   When costs to the city involved in processing and reviewing an
application exceeds the original application fees, the applicant shall
reimburse the city for any additional costs. Such expenses may include, but are
not limited to, payroll, mailing costs, consultant fees, and other professional
services the city may need to retain in reviewing permits.
   (H)   Failure by the owner to act within six months on a variance unless
extended by the Board of Adjustment shall void the variance. A second extension
shall require a new public hearing. This provision shall apply to any variance
outstanding at the time of this chapter’s adoption.
   (I)   Appeals from the action of the City Council shall be filed with the
District Court within 30 days after Council action.
   (J)   The variance shall be filed with the County Recorder within 45 days.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.286 LAND USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Land use permits shall be issued for all new structures and any change
in structure exterior, plumbing, or number of bedrooms, any construction or
repair of a sewage system, and any grading and filling in shoreland not
exempted by this chapter. No person shall assemble, install, repair, remodel,
remove, or construct any structure prior to applying for and receiving a land
use permit.
   (B)   Where a proposed use requires action of the Board of Adjustment,
Planning Commission, or Council, or posting of financial security, said action
shall occur, and the conditional use permit, variance, zoning district change,
final plat plan approval, or approval of metes and bound division shall be
issued or security posted before the land use permit is issued.
   (C)   Lot corners shall be visible on the lot. The Zoning Administrator may
require a new survey when stakes are not visible or have been removed through
erosion, construction, or other action and require that a new certificate with
existing and recorded dimensions shall be provided. If survey monuments are not
clearly available to establish the property boundary, a survey shall be
required when a structure is proposed to encroach within 150% of a side or
front setback or within 110% of an OHW setback or bluff setback.
   (D)   The city shall not accept applications where the applicant has past
due fees or charges due to the city or the county until the account is made
current.
   (E)   No applications shall be accepted by the Zoning Administrator from a
contractor or property owner having outstanding violations. Permits can only be
issued to contractors or property owners with outstanding violations by
majority vote of the Planning Commission after the violation has been resolved
to the satisfaction of the Planning Commission.
   (F)   The land use permit application shall contain the parcel number of the
property and the signature of the fee or contract owner of the property, or his
or her authorized agent.
   (G)   Unless extended by the Zoning Administrator, where a land use permit
has been issued but no action has occurred within 12 months, the land use
permit shall be null and void. Exterior work on the structure shall be complete
in 24 months from the issuance of the land use permit. The time limit may be
extended up to six months by the Zoning Administrator for good cause. A second
extension shall be decided by the Planning Commission.
   (H)   Granting of a land use permit shall occur when all requirements of
this chapter have been met, but shall not be considered a statement of
compliance with regional, state, or federal codes, statutes, or laws or
approval of the design of the structure or accessories, or description of the
property. Subsequent actions of the Zoning Administrator shall not be
considered acceptance of structural components or workmanship, but rather shall
be for the purpose of determining general compliance with this chapter.
   (I)   If the Zoning Administrator determines that any violation of the
permit or other section of this chapter has occurred, the permit shall become
null and void.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.287 SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Pre-application meeting. At the subdivider’s option, a pre-application
meeting shall be held, including the subdivider, City Zoning Administrator,
City Planner, City Engineer, if requested by the Zoning Administrator, and the
City Clerk-Treasurer. Discussion at this meeting shall be limited to procedure,
chapter requirements, and timing.
   (B)   Sketch plan review meeting with Planning Commission. At the
subdivider’s option, a review of a sketch plan will be made by the Planning
Commission prior to a public hearing. Discussion at this meeting shall be
limited to procedure, chapter requirements, and timing.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit nine copies of the sketch plan 14 days
prior to the normal Planning Commission meeting, and request a position on the
formal agenda.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall not take action on the proposal, but
may make suggestions to facilitate the preparation of an approvable preliminary
plat or plan.
   (C)   Financial security. The city may require that an applicant establish
an escrow account or other financial security for the purpose of reimbursing
the city for direct costs relating to professional services provided during the
review, approval, and inspection of the project. The city may charge the
applicant a rate equal to the value of the service to the city. Services
provided by city staff or contract professionals will be billed at an
established rate.
   (D)   Metes and bounds subdivision approval, subdivisions ten acres or
greater in size and 500 feet or greater in width.
      (1)   Shall be subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator if both of
the resulting parcels are ten acres or greater and 500 feet of width or
greater.
      (2)   Such subdivisions shall be limited to no more than one split of a
parcel into two parcels in a three-year period of time.
      (3)   The proposed legal description for subdivision of land by metes and
bounds shall be prepared and certified by a registered land surveyor.
      (4)   Approval by the city shall be indicated by the stamp of approval
affixed by the City Clerk-Treasurer to said legal description. The County
Recorder or Registrar of Deeds may accept each such certificate for filing and
recording upon compliance with these provisions.
   (E)   Metes and bounds subdivision approval, subdivisions less than ten
acres in size or less than 500 feet in width.
      (1)   Where appropriate, under the provisions of this chapter, the
subdivider shall submit documents containing the essential information of a
proposed plat or plan and including dimensions computed to one hundredth of a
foot and bearing computed to equivalent accuracy to the Planning Commission for
approval.
      (2)   The review of the Planning Commission need not include a public
hearing.
      (3)   The subdivider shall submit nine copies of his or her proposal to
the Zoning Administrator 30 days prior to the normal Planning Commission
meeting and pay the corresponding fee.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the proposed lot split for
compliance with the Zoning Ordinance, including a field review, at his or her
discretion.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall decide on the subdivision within the
required time based on the resulting lots complying with this chapter, the
feasibility of the resulting lots for their intended purpose, and the provision
for access to adjacent properties. Conditions may be attached to an approval
requiring appropriate improvements. No more than one split into two parcels
shall be allowed in a three-year period of time. An additional parcel for
right-of-way or commonly owned driveway access may also be allowed.
      (6)   The decision of the Planning Commission may be appealed to the City
Council.
      (7)   The resulting land descriptions shall be prepared and signed by a
registered land surveyor and shall comply with all provisions of this chapter.
      (8)   Failure of the subdivider to act after an approval of a metes and
bounds subdivision within one year shall void the approval unless extended by
the Planning Commission. A second extension shall require a new review by the
Planning Commission.
   (F)   Preliminary plat or preliminary condominium plat approval. The
preliminary plat or preliminary condominium plan approval constitutes formal
approval of the concept and design of the subdivision. The Planning Commission
review shall include a public hearing and may include a field review at their
discretion. All reports of city staff, DNR, and road authorities shall be
reviewed and included in the hearing record. Related variance requests,
rezoning requests, and conditional use requests shall be heard concurrently
with a subdivision request.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit nine copies of this proposed plat or
condominium plat to the Zoning Administrator 30 days prior to the normal
Planning Commission meeting, pay the required fees, and request a public
hearing.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify all property owners within
350 feet by regular mail and shall advertise the hearing once in the legal
section of the official newspaper at least ten days ahead of the public
hearing, including sufficient legal property description in the advertisement.
The Zoning Administrator shall distribute one copy to each Planning Commission
member, if the proposal is adjacent to a county highway, one copy to the County
Engineer, and if the plat is in shorelands, one copy to the DNR postmarked at
least ten days before the public hearing for review and comment.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the proposed plat or plan as
to content standards, necessary variances, from the Zoning Ordinance and this
chapter, necessary rezoning or necessary conditional use permits, and advise
the subdivider and the Planning Commission of his or her findings.
      (4)   The subdivider shall make additional application for the necessary
permits at least 30 days prior to the normal Planning Commission or Board of
Adjustment meeting as applicable, if subdivider desires to have a concurrent
public hearing for variance, conditional use, or rezoning.
      (5)   The Planning Commission shall hold the public hearing and may
continue the hearing as it deems necessary to allow all factual input it deems
necessary to allow a decision. Lack of submission of comments by outside
agencies shall be construed to mean the agency has no objections.
      (6)   The Planning Commission shall act on the preliminary plat or
preliminary condominium plat within the required time frame, and the findings
shall be sent to the subdivider. The Planning Commission shall consider the
following in its decision:
         (a)   Is the property properly zoned?
         (b)   Does the proposal conform to the requirements of the Zoning
Ordinance?
         (c)   Does the proposal conform to the requirements of this chapter?
         (d)   Have the concerns of the affected agencies been addressed?
      (7)   The City Council will hear any appeal within 30 days of the
Planning Commission action and will re-notify anyone noticed for the public
hearing. Said appeals will be filed with the City Clerk-Treasurer within 15
days of the decision.
      (8)   Failure of the subdivider to act after an approval of preliminary
plat or preliminary condominium plat within one year shall void the approval
unless extended by the Planning Commission. A second extension shall require a
new public hearing.
   (G)   Final plat or final condominium plat approval. Upon approval by the
Planning Commission, the subdivider shall cause the final plat or final
condominium plat, documents, and concurrent documents to be prepared and
submitted to the Planning Commission for recommendation to the City Council.
All coincident variance requests, conditional use permit requests, and/or
rezoning requests shall either have been decided or be pending approval
simultaneously with the final plat.
      (1)   The subdivider shall submit nine paper copies of the final plat or
final condominium plat and concurrent documents to the Zoning Administrator 30
days prior to the Planning Commission meeting.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall distribute the information received
to the City Attorney, the City Engineer, and an independent registered land
surveyor, who shall review the submission for conformance with the standards
and comment thereupon to the Planning Commission. The Zoning Administrator
shall compare the final plat to the preliminary plat and comment thereupon. The
Attorney shall ascertain that all parties with an interest in the parcel to be
divided are indicated as signers of the documents. The Engineer shall determine
that the improvements required have been completed or have been included in a
development contract and that the required security has been posted with the
City Council. The independent registered land surveyor shall compare the
approved preliminary plat with the final plat, provide a plat check of the
final plat, and verify that the final plat meets the survey standards required
by Minnesota Statutes.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall review the reports of the Attorney,
Engineer, Zoning Administrator, and independent registered land surveyor and
act within the required time frame. The Planning Commission shall consider the
following:
         (a)   Has the applicant complied with all conditions and requirements
upon which the preliminary approval is expressly conditioned whether through
performance or execution of appropriate agreements assuring performance?
         (b)   Does the final plat or final condominium plat agree with the
preliminary plat or preliminary condominium plat?
         (c)   Does the City Attorney agree that all parties with an interest
in the property are shown as signers of the document?
         (d)   Does the City Engineer agree that all improvements required are
satisfactorily completed or are guaranteed by contract with adequate financial
security?
         (e)   Does an independent professional land surveyor agree the final
document meets the statutory requirements?
         (f)   Has financial security been posted in the appropriate amount?
      (4)   Following approval by the Planning Commission, the subdivider shall
submit to the Zoning Administrator, two double mounted cloth-backed prints on
card stock (hard-shells) and two mylar prints of the final plat or final
condominium plat for signature by the Mayor and Clerk-Treasurer.
      (5)   Upon signature, the subdivider shall file all pertinent documents
with the County Recorder. Failure to file a final plat or plan within two years
shall void the approval unless extended by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.288 FEES.
   (A)   The Council shall adopt a schedule of fees from time to time for all
permits. No permit shall be issued, or request brought before the Board of
Adjustment or Planning Commission, until the fees are paid. All late
applications shall require the payment of an after-the-fact fee as outlined in
the fee schedule.
   (B)   The city shall not accept applications where the applicant has any
past due fees or charges due to the city until the account is made current.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.289 FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Applications will not be accepted as complete where an applicant has
any utility charges, delinquent taxes, delinquent assessments, or other fees
past due with the city or county. The past due account must be paid to bring
the account current before an application will be accepted.
   (B)   When costs associated with processing or reviewing an application
exceed the original application fees, the applicant shall reimburse the city
for any additional costs. Such expenses may include, but are not limited to,
payroll, mailing costs, consultant fees, and other professional services the
city may need to hire in reviewing permits. Outstanding fees shall be paid
before issuance of the permit and any construction of the project begins.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.290 PERFORMANCE SECURITY.
   Upon approval of a conditional use, variance, or other permit application,
the Planning Commission/Board of Adjustment, City Council, or the Administrator
may, if reasonably necessary to achieve the purposes of this chapter, require a
surety bond, cash escrow, or cash deposit prior to issuing a land use permit or
initiation of work on a proposed improvement or development. Said security
shall be irrevocable and shall guarantee conformance and compliance with the
conditions of the permit, conditional use, or variance. The amount of the
security may be set at up to 150% of the estimated cost of compliance with the
conditions, including, but not limited to, vegetation establishment, stormwater
plan implementation, soil stabilization, water quality protection, or pollution
control measures.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.291 REQUIRED DECISION MAKING TIME FRAMES.
   (A)   The city will do every thing in its power to expedite the application
review process and provide applicants with timely feedback on their requests.
   (B)   Pursuant to M.S. § 15.99, as it may be amended from time to time, the
city establishes the following time frames for decisions made on all land use
requests before the city, including variances, conditional use permits, zoning
district boundary changes, zoning ordinance amendments, appeals of decisions by
the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission, and land use permits.
   (C)   It shall be the applicant’s responsibility to submit a completed
application packet, which shall by definition include the application forms
approved by the city, site plan with all information required by this chapter
and remit proper fees for the land use application. Once the Zoning
Administrator or appointee has received the completed application packet, the
review time frame shall commence. The Zoning Administrator shall notify
applicants in writing when a completed application has been received.
   (D)   The city shall, within 60 days of the receipt of a completed
application, make a decision on the request. A determination shall be either a
recommendation to another body or a final action approving or denying a
request. Time frames for other reviews required by statutes or other government
units shall not be counted as time during the local decision making process.
Once the other agency or governmental unit has made their determination, the
time frame for local review shall again commence.
   (E)   If the city is unable to make a proper determination within the
prescribed 60-day time frame, it shall have the right to extend the time frame
another 60 days. The city shall, in writing, notify the applicant that it is
unable to complete the review process and state the specific reasons why the
process must be extended.
   (F)   If the city is unable to make the final determination within 120 days
of the original application date, it shall, in writing, request an extension
from the applicant. The applicant shall have the authority to approve or deny
the request for an extension.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 150.305 LIABILITY OF CITY OFFICIALS.
   The failure of any officer of the city or Board, or employees of the city to
act pursuant to this chapter, except as an individual acting in his or her own
behalf, shall not be an offense and shall not subject the officer, Board, or
employee to any penalty, except those provided under the city personnel
policies.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.306 EQUITABLE RELIEF.
   In the event of a violation or threatened violation of any provision of this
chapter or the conditions of any permit issued pursuant to the ordinance, the
city, in addition to other remedies, may act or institute action to prevent,
restrain, correct, or abate such violation or threatened violation.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.307 NOTICES.
   Failure to receive notice called for by this chapter shall not invalidate
any action taken by the city so long as the city acted reasonably in its
attempt to provide such notice.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of this chapter or the violation of the
conditions or provisions of any permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be
a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, the violation shall be subject to a
fine designated on the fee schedule or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90
days, or both. Each act of violation and every calendar day on which such
violation occurs or continues shall be a separate offense.
   (B)   Any person who owns, controls, keeps, maintains, or harbors hen
chickens in the city limits without obtaining or maintaining a current permit,
or after a permit has been suspended or revoked by Council action, shall be
guilty of a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. passed 4-10-2017; Ord. O-22-24, passed 10-11-2022)
CHAPTER 151: BUILDING STANDARDS
Section
Subsurface Sewage Treatment Systems
   
151.01   Purpose, authority, and intent
   
151.02   Jurisdiction and scope
   
151.03   Administration
   
151.04   Liability
   
151.05   All SSTS
   
151.06   Existing permits
   
151.07   SSTS on lots created after January 23, 1996
   
151.08   Upgrade, repair, replacement, and abandonment
   
151.09   SSTS in floodplains
   
151.10   Class V injection wells
   
151.11   SSTS practitioner licensing
   
151.12   Prohibitions
   
151.13   Alternative local standards adopted by reference
   
151.14   Minimum standards
   
151.15   Compliance criteria for existing SSTS
   
151.16   Holding tanks
   
151.17   Variance
   
151.18   Permit requirements
   
151.19   Operating permit
   
151.20   Compliance inspection program
   
151.21   Enforcement
   
151.22   State notification of violation
   
151.23   Records
   
151.24   Annual report
   
151.25   Fees
   
151.26   Dispute resolution
 
   
151.99   Penalty
SUBSURFACE SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS
§ 151.01 PURPOSE, AUTHORITY, AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter regulating subsurface sewage treatment
systems (SSTS), as defined in Minn. Rules part 7080.1100, as amended from time
to time, is to provide minimum standards for and regulation of individual
sewage treatment systems (ISTS), as defined in Minn. Rules part 7080.1100, as
amended from time to time, and midsized sewage treatment systems (MSTS), as
defined in Minn. Rules part 7081.0020, as amended from time to time, including
the proper location, design, and construction; their necessary modification and
reconstruction; their operation, maintenance, and repair to protect surface
water and groundwater from contamination by human sewage and waterborne
household and commercial wastes; to protect the public’s health and safety, and
eliminate or prevent the development of public nuisances pursuant to the
authority granted under M.S. §§ 115.55, 145A.05, 375.51, 394.21 through 394.37,
and 471.82, as they may be amended from time to time, the City Comprehensive
Plan, and Chapter 150 of this code.
   (B)   The City intends that this subchapter will promote the following:
      (1)   The protection of lakes, rivers, and streams, wetlands, and
groundwater in the city essential to the promotion of public health, safety,
welfare, socioeconomic growth, and development of the city;
      (2)   The regulation of proper SSTS construction, reconstruction, repair,
and maintenance to prevent the entry and migration of contaminants, thereby
protecting the degradation of surface water and groundwater quality;
      (3)   The establishment of minimum standards for SSTS placement, design,
construction, reconstruction, repair, and maintenance to prevent contamination
and, if contamination is discovered, the identification and control of its
consequences and the abatement of its source and migration; and
      (4)   The appropriate utilization of privy vaults and other non-water
carried sewage collection and storage facilities.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.02 JURISDICTION AND SCOPE.
   (A)   The jurisdiction of this subchapter shall include all property within
the municipal boundaries of the city.
   (B)   This subchapter regulates the siting, design, installation,
alterations, operation, maintenance, monitoring, and management of all SSTS
within the city’s jurisdiction including, but not necessarily limited to,
individual SSTS and cluster or community SSTS, privy vaults, and other non-
water carried SSTS. All sewage generated in unsewered areas of the city shall
be treated and dispersed by an approved SSTS that is sited, designed,
installed, operated, and maintained in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter or by a system that has been permitted by the MPCA.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The City Planning and Zoning Department shall administer the SSTS
program and all provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The city’s duties and responsibilities include, but are not be limited
to, the following:
      (1)   Review all applications for SSTS;
      (2)   Issue all permits required in this subchapter;
      (3)   Inspect all work regulated in this subchapter;
      (4)   Investigate all complaints regarding SSTS;
      (5)   Issue certificates of installation, certificates of compliance, or
notices of non-compliance where applicable;
      (6)   Enact enforcement provisions of this subchapter as necessary;
      (7)   Refer unresolved violations of this subchapter to the City
Attorney;
      (8)   Maintain current records for each permitted SSTS, including all
site evaluation documents, design documents, inspection documents, and other
applicable documents;
      (9)   The city shall employ or retain under contract qualified and
appropriately licensed professionals to administer and operate the SSTS
program; and
      (10)   Submit annual reports to MPCA as required.
   (C)   The owner or owners of a single SSTS or a group of SSTS under common
ownership must obtain an SDS permit from the agency according to Minn. Rules
Chapter 7001, as amended from time to time, when all or part of proposed or
existing soil dispersal components are within one-half mile of each other and
the combined flow from all proposed and existing SSTS is greater than 10,000
gallons per day. For proposed SSTS, the flow must be determined according to
Minn. Rules part 7081.0110, as amended from time to time. For existing SSTS,
the flow is determined by the greater of the average maximum seven-day measured
flow or flow amounts according to Minn. Rules part 7081.0110, as amended from
time to time. The highest calculated value of the various methods in Table I
under Minn. Rules part 7081.0130, subpart 1, as amended from time to time, must
be used to make this determination, with no reduction allowed. An SDS permit is
not required if a factor of safety is added to the design flow that results in
a design flow that is in excess of the SDS permit threshold.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.04 LIABILITY.
   The city’s involvement in administration of this subchapter does not create
a special duty to any person, and further liability or responsibility shall not
be imposed upon the city or any of its officials, employees, or other contract
agents for damage resulting from the defective construction, operation, or
abandonment of any onsite or cluster SSTS regulated under this subchapter or by
reason of any standards, requirements, or inspections authorized by this
subchapter hereunder.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.05 ALL SSTS.
   Except as explicitly set forth in §
151.07, all provisions of this subchapter shall apply to any SSTS, regardless
of the date it was originally permitted.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.06 EXISTING PERMITS.
   Unexpired permits which were issued prior to the effective date of this
subchapter shall remain valid under the terms and conditions of the original
permit until the original expiration date or until a change in system design,
whichever is earlier.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.07 SSTS ON LOTS CREATED AFTER JANUARY 23, 1996.
   All lots created after January 23, 1996, must have a minimum of two soil
treatment and dispersal areas that can support Type I systems as defined by
Minn. Rules part 7080.2200, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.08 UPGRADE, REPAIR, REPLACEMENT, AND ABANDONMENT.
   (A)   SSTS capacity expansions. Expansion of an existing SSTS must include
any system upgrades that are necessary to bring the entire system into
compliance with the prevailing provisions of this subchapter at the time of the
expansion.
   (B)   Bedroom addition. Any addition to a structure that includes bedroom(s)
that requires a land use permit from the city shall require that the SSTS meet
the required design flow according to Minn. Rules § 7080.1860, as amended from
time to time, or be upgraded to meet Class I sizing for both the septic tanks
and soil absorption area. Any required upgrades shall be completed within two
years.
   (C)   Failure to protect groundwater. An SSTS that is determined not to be
protective of groundwater in accordance with Minn. Rules part 7080.1500,
subpart 4(B), as amended from time to time, shall be upgraded, repaired,
replaced, or abandoned by the owner in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter within ten months upon receipt of a notice of non-compliance and
must meet Class I sizing requirements according to Minn. Rules part 7080.1860,
as amended from time to time.
   (D)   Imminent threat to public health or safety. An SSTS posing an imminent
threat to public health or safety shall be pumped within 24 hours and managed
as a holding tank in accordance with Minn. Rules part 7080.1500, subpart 4(A),
as amended from time to time, and said SSTS shall be upgraded, repaired,
replaced, or abandoned by the owner in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter within ten months upon receipt of a notice of non-compliance and
must meet Class I sizing requirements according to Minn. Rules part 7080.1860,
as amended from time to time.
   (E)   Abandonment. Any SSTS, or any component thereof, which is no longer
intended to be used, must be abandoned in accordance with Minn. Rules part
7080.2500, as amended from time to time.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.09 SSTS IN FLOODPLAINS.
   SSTS shall not be located in a floodway and wherever possible, location
within any part of a floodplain should be avoided. If no option exists to
locate a SSTS outside of a floodplain, location within the flood fringe is
allowed if the requirements in Minn. Rules part 7080.2270, as amended from time
to time, and all relevant local requirements are met.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.10 CLASS V INJECTION WELLS.
   All owners of new or replacement SSTS that are considered to be Class V
injection wells, as defined in the 40 C.F.R. part 144, are required by the
Federal Government to submit a UIC Class V inventory form to the Environmental
Protection Agency as described in 40 C.F.R. part 144. Further, owners are
required to identify all Class V injection wells in property transfer
disclosures.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.11 SSTS PRACTITIONER LICENSING.
   (A)   No person shall engage in site evaluation, inspection, design,
installation, construction, alteration, extension, repair, maintenance, or
pumping of SSTS without an appropriate and valid license issued by MPCA in
accordance with Minn. Rules Chapter 7083, as amended from time to time, except
as exempted in Minn. Rules part 7083.0700, as amended from time to time.
   (B)   An MPCA license is not required of an individual who is constructing a
SSTS on land that is owned by the individual and functions solely as a dwelling
for that individual pursuant to Minn. Rules part 7083.0700, as amended from
time to time. Installation of the system shall be based upon a design by a
licensed designer. The system shall be inspected before it is covered and a 24-
hour notification to the city before such inspection occurs is required.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.12 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Occupancy or use of a building without a compliant SSTS. It is
unlawful for any person to maintain, occupy, or use any building intended for
habitation or that contains plumbing fixtures that is not provided with a
wastewater treatment system or that disposes of wastewater in a manner that
does not comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   Sewage discharge to ground surface or surface water. It is unlawful
for any person to construct, maintain, or use any SSTS system regulated under
this subchapter that results in raw or partially treated wastewater seeping to
the ground surface or flowing into any surface water. Any surface discharging
system must be permitted under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System program by the MPCA.
   (C)   Sewage discharge to a well or boring. It is unlawful for any person to
discharge raw or treated wastewater into any well or boring as described in
Minn. Rules part 4725.2050, as amended from time to time, or any other
excavation in the ground that is not in compliance with this subchapter.
   (D)   Discharge of hazardous or deleterious materials. It is unlawful for
any person to discharge into any treatment system regulated under this
subchapter any hazardous or deleterious material that adversely affects the
treatment or dispersal performance of the system or groundwater quality.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.13 ALTERNATIVE LOCAL STANDARDS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Adoption of rule by reference.
      (1)   The city hereby adopts by reference the provisions of Minn. Rules
Chapters 7080 through 7083 in their entirety, except as otherwise expressly
modified by this subchapter.
      (2)   When “2006 version of Minn. Rules Chapter 7080” is utilized, the
reference is to the rules effective April 3, 2006, otherwise the city is
referencing the current rules in effect.
      (3)   All new construction or replacement of SSTS shall employ sewage
tanks, distribution media, and treatment products which have been registered by
the State Pollution Control Agency.
   (B)   Alternative local standards for new and existing SSTS. The city hereby
adopts the 2006 version of Minn. Rules Chapter 7080 for all new and existing
residential Type I, Type II, and Type III SSTS and SSTS that serve any food,
beverage and lodging establishment under 2,500 gallons per day, provided the
effluent discharge does not exceed the standards in Minn. Rule part 7080.2150,
subpart 3(K), as amended from time to time.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.14 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The following is a list of minimum standards applicable to SSTS.
   (A)   In no land use district shall a land use permit, shoreline alteration
permit, minor subdivision, plat, conditional use permit, or variance be issued
without a current certificate of compliance or certificate of installation that
has not expired according to §
151.20(C).
   (B)   At least one cleanout at or above finished grade shall be installed
between the structure and the septic tank with additional cleanouts at
intervals not more than 100 feet.
   (C)   Class I sizing is required on all new construction. NEW CONSTRUCTION
will be defined as placement of a new structure or replacement structure that
is served by pressurized water.
   (D)   Minimum septic tank sizing shall be 1,500 gallons. This can be
accomplished through a compartmentalized tank, multiple tanks in series, or a
single existing 1,500 gallon tank with the use of an effluent filter for the
last baffle. The filter must be of such a design that when the filter is
removed from the filter housing, the flow of water leaving the tank is not
allowed. The first tank or compartment shall be not less than 1,000 gallons in
size and applies to new and replacement SSTS. Any additional septic tanks shall
be a minimum of 1,000 gallons. All other tank sizing shall follow Minn. Rules
part 7080.1930, as amended from time to time.
   (E)   Pump tank sizing shall follow Minn. Rules part 7080.2100, as amended
from time to time.
   (F)   Soil pits shall be required during the construction inspection. The
soil pit shall be excavated at the time of the inspection. The soil pit shall
be dug by a backhoe or other acceptable method and be excavated to a depth that
will allow the verification of redoximorphic features and the three feet of
vertical separation as required. Location of soil pits shall be adjacent to the
lowest trench or next to the down slope side of an elevated treatment area. The
pit shall not impact the hydraulic performance of the ISTS. A certificate of
installation will not be issued until the soils are verified.
   (G)   All dwellings or buildings that contain plumbing fixtures shall meet
the required setbacks to the septic tank and soil absorption area. Accessory
structures, including, but not limited to, decks, screen decks, porches, sheds,
garages, and pole buildings shall not be required to meet said setbacks,
provided that the tank(s) can be maintained properly and that the structure
does not negatively impact the function of the system.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.15 COMPLIANCE CRITERIA FOR EXISTING SSTS.
   For an SSTS built before April 1, 1996, and outside of areas designated as
“SWF,” systems in shoreland areas, wellhead protection areas, or systems
serving food, beverage, or lodging establishments, there must be at least two
feet of vertical separation between the bottom of the dispersal system and
seasonal saturation or bedrock.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.16 HOLDING TANKS.
   Holding tanks may be allowed for the following applications: as replacements
for existing failing SSTS and SSTS that pose an imminent threat to public
health or safety, on lots with limitations that will not allow for the
installation of a Type One SSTS, or for uses that are seasonal or intermittent
in nature and will not use more than 150 gallons of water per day.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.17 VARIANCE.
   (A)   A property owner may request a variance from the standards as
specified in this subchapter pursuant to §§
150.280 through
150.291.
   (B)   Variances that pertain to the standards and requirements of the state
must be approved by the affected State Agency pursuant to the requirements of
the State Agency. No permits will be issued by the city until all required
State Agency variances have been approved.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.18 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Activities not requiring a SSTS permit. A SSTS permit is not required
for minor repairs or replacements of system components that do not alter the
original function of the system; change the treatment capacity of the system;
change the location of the system; or otherwise change the original system
design, layout, or function. Examples are, but not limited to, pumps, baffles,
and effluent filters.
   (B)   Activities requiring a SSTS permit. A SSTS permit shall be obtained by
the property owner or an agent of the property owner from the city prior to the
installation, construction, replacement, modification, alteration, or capacity
expansion, including the use of advanced treatment components of a SSTS. It is
unlawful for any person to construct, install, modify, or replace a SSTS
without the appropriate permit from the SSTS, including repair or replacement
of components that will alter the original function of the system, change the
treatment capacity of the system, change the location of the system, or
otherwise change the original system’s design, layout, or function. The issuing
of any permit, variance, or conditional use under the provisions of this
subchapter shall not absolve the applicant of responsibility to obtain any
other required permit.
   (C)   Permit requirements. SSTS permit applications shall be made on forms
provided by the city and signed by the applicant or applicant’s agent, and must
include the following information and documentation:
      (1)   Applicant name, mailing address, telephone number, and email
address;
      (2)   Property identification number, property address, and legal
description of property location;
      (3)   Site evaluation report, which shall be made on forms provided by
the county;
      (4)   Design report, which shall be made on forms provided by the county;
      (5)   A management plan, as defined by Minn. Rules part 7082.0600, as
amended from time to time; and
      (6)   Any additional information that may be required by the city to
assure compliance with this subchapter.
   (D)   Application review and response. The city shall review a permit
application and supporting documents according to §§
150.280 through
150.291.
   (E)   Appeal. The applicant may appeal any decision of the city in
accordance with §§
150.280 through
150.291.
   (F)   Permit expiration. A SSTS permit for a new SSTS is valid for a period
of no more than two years from its date of issue. A SSTS permit for the
replacement of SSTS failing to protect groundwater is valid for ten months. A
SSTS permit for the replacement of SSTS that are imminent threats to public
health is valid for ten months. Satisfactory completion of construction shall
be determined by as-built drawings and a signed certification that the
construction and installation of the system was completed in reasonable
conformance with the approved design documents by a qualified employee of the
city or a licensed inspection business, which is authorized by the city and
independent of the owner and the SSTS installer.
   (G)   Transferability. A SSTS permit may be transferred to a new owner,
provided there are no proposed changes to the SSTS design.
   (H)   Suspension or revocation. The city may suspend or revoke a SSTS permit
issued under this section for any false statements, misrepresentations of facts
on which the SSTS permit was issued, or unauthorized changes to the system
design that alter the original function of the system, change the treatment
capacity of the system, change the location of the system, or otherwise change
the original system design, layout, or function. A notice of suspension or
revocation and the reasons for the suspension or revocation shall be conveyed
in writing to the permit holder. If suspended or revoked, installation or
modification of a treatment system may not commence or continue until a valid
SSTS permit is obtained.
   (I)   SSTS assessment requirements. For those SSTS without a management plan
or operating permit according to the provisions of this subchapter, the
following provisions apply.
      (1)   The owner of an ISTS or the owner’s agent shall regularly, but in
no case less frequently than every three years, assess whether sewage tanks
leak below the designed operating depth and whether sewage tank tops, riser
joints, and riser connections leak through visual evidence of major defects and
measure or remove the accumulations of scum, grease, and other floating
materials at the top of each septic tank and compartment, along with the
sludge, which consists of the solids denser than water.
      (2)   All solids and liquids must be removed by pumping from all tanks or
compartments in which the top of the sludge layer is less than 12 inches from
the bottom of the outlet baffle or transfer hole or whenever the bottom of the
scum layer is less than three inches above the bottom of the outlet baffle or
transfer hole. Total sludge and scum volume must not be greater than 25% of the
tank’s liquid capacity. Removal of accumulated sludge, scum, and liquids from
septic tanks and pump tanks must be through the maintenance hole. The removal
of solids from any location other than the maintenance hole is not a compliant
method of solids removal from a sewage tank, and this method does not fulfill
the solids removal requirement of this part or a management plan. Liquid and
solids removal from cleanout pipes is allowed for holding tanks.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.19 OPERATING PERMIT.
   (A)   An operating permit shall be required for the following SSTS:
      (1)   SSTS with high strength waste effluent standards that exceed Minn.
Rules part 7080.2150, subpart 3(K), as amended from time to time;
      (2)   Holding tanks;
      (3)   SSTS serving three or more connections;
      (4)   Type Four and Type Five SSTS;
      (5)   SSTS that exceed a daily flow of 2,500 gallons per day; or
      (6)   MSTS designed under Minn. Rules Chapter 7081, as amended from time
to time.
   (B)   Operating permits shall be a signed agreement between the city and the
property owner and shall include monitoring, performance, mitigation, and
reporting requirements.
   (C)   A valid operating permit shall be considered a certificate of
compliance if that system is in compliance with the requirements of the
operating permit.
   (D)   Owners of holding tanks shall provide the city, upon request, a copy
of a valid monitoring and disposal contract executed between the owner and a
licensed maintenance business, which guarantees the removal of the holding tank
contents in a timely manner and prevents an illegal discharge in accordance
with Minn. Rules part 7082.0100, subpart 3(G), as amended from time to time.
This requirement is waived if the owner is a farmer who is exempt from
licensing under M.S. § 115.56, Subd. 3(b)(3), as amended from time to time.
   (E)   Operating permits shall be valid for the specific term stated on the
permit as determined by the Department.
   (F)   An operating permit must be renewed prior to its expiration. If not
renewed, the city may require the system to be removed from service or operated
as a holding tank until the permit is renewed. If not renewed within 90
calendar days of the expiration date, the Department may require that the
system be abandoned in accordance with §
151.08(E).
   (G)   Operating permits do not transfer to new property owners. New owners
shall apply for an operating permit in accordance with this section. The city
shall not terminate the current permit until 90 calendar days after the date of
sale unless an imminent threat to public health and safety exists. To consider
the new owner’s application, the city may require a performance inspection of
the treatment system certified by a licensed inspector or qualified employee.
   (H)   A report shall be prepared and certified by the licensed inspection
business or licensed service provider. The report shall be submitted to the
city on or before the compliance reporting date stipulated in the operating
permit as required. The report shall contain a description of all maintenance
and servicing activities performed since the last compliance monitoring report
as described in the operating permit.
   (I)   The city may suspend or revoke any operating permit issued under this
section for any false statements or misrepresentations of facts on which the
operating permit was issued.
   (J)   If suspended or revoked, the Department may require that the treatment
system be removed from service, operated as a holding tank, or abandoned.
   (K)   At the Department’s sole discretion, the operating permit may be
reinstated or renewed upon the owner taking appropriate corrective actions.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.20 COMPLIANCE INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   (A)   Department responsibility. It is the responsibility of the city, or
its agent, to perform installation inspections of new SSTS or upgrades of SSTS
to assure that the requirements of this subchapter are met.
      (1)   All compliance inspections must be performed and signed by licensed
inspection businesses or qualified employees certified as inspectors.
      (2)   The city shall be given access to enter a property at any
reasonable time to inspect and/or monitor the SSTS system, in accordance with §
10.20. As used in this section, PROPERTY does not include a residence or
private building.
      (3)   No person shall hinder or otherwise interfere with the city’s
employees or agents in the performance of their duties and responsibilities
pursuant to this subchapter. Refusal to allow reasonable access to the property
by the city, in accordance with §
10.20, shall be deemed a separate and distinct offense.
      (4)   A signed winter agreement may be accepted in lieu of a compliance
inspection for property transfers, permit applications, and designs to the city
between November 1 and April 30, at the city’s sole discretion, provided the
required information is submitted to the city by June 1 of the subsequent year.
Failure to fulfill all of the obligations of the winter agreement shall be a
violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   New construction or replacement.
      (1)   New installation inspections must be performed on new or
replacement SSTS to determine compliance with Minn. Rules Chapters 7080 or
7081, respectively, as they may be amended from time to time, according to this
section. SSTS found to be noncompliant with other applicable requirements must
be repaired or replaced according to the city’s requirements.
      (2)   It is the responsibility of the SSTS owner or the owner’s agent to
notify the city 24 hours prior to the installation inspection.
      (3)   If the installer provides proper notice and the city does not
provide an inspection within one hour after an inspection time was set, the
installer may complete the construction per the following: The installer shall
submit photographs of the entire uncovered system and an as-built drawing with
a certified statement that the installation of the SSTS met the appropriate
standards of this subchapter within five working days of the installation.
      (4)   A certificate of installation for new SSTS construction or
replacement shall be issued by the city within 30 days of inspection if the
city has reasonable assurance that the system was built in accordance with the
applicable requirements as specified in the construction permit.
      (5)   The certificate of installation must include a certified statement
by the certified inspector or qualified employee who conducted the inspection
that the SSTS is or is not in compliance with requirements of this subchapter.
If the SSTS is determined not to be in compliance with the applicable
requirements, a notice of non-compliance must be issued to the owner which
includes a statement specifying those ordinance provisions with which the SSTS
does not comply.
      (6)   No SSTS shall be placed into operation until a valid certificate of
installation has been issued.
      (7)   Certificates of installation for new construction or replacement
shall remain valid for five years from the date of issue unless the city finds
evidence of non-compliance.
   (C)   Existing systems.
      (1)   Compliance inspections shall be required when any of the following
conditions occur:
         (a)   When applying for a land use permit, shoreline alteration
permit, minor subdivision, plat, land use map amendment, conditional use
permit, or variance and the certificate of installation is more than five years
old or the certificate of compliance is more than three years old;
         (b)   Within 90 days of conveyance of any real property and the
certificate of installation is more than five years old or the certificate of
compliance is more than three years old;
         (c)   Any time there is a change in use of the property being served
by an existing SSTS which may impact the performance of the system; or
         (d)   At any time as required by this subchapter or the city deems
appropriate such as upon receipt of a complaint or other notice of a system
malfunction.
      (2)   Compliance inspections of existing SSTS shall be reported on the
inspection report forms provided by MPCA. The following conditions must be
assessed or verified:
         (a)   Water-tightness assessment of all treatment tanks, including a
leakage report;
         (b)   Vertical separation distance between the bottom of the soil
treatment and dispersal system and the periodically saturated soil or bedrock
including a vertical soils separation verification report unless soils have
been verified according to Minn. Rules part 7082.0700, subpart 4B, as amended
from time to time; and
         (c)   Sewage backup, surface seepage, or surface discharge, including
a hydraulic function report.
      (3)   The certificate of compliance must include a certified statement by
a qualified employee or licensed inspection business, indicating whether the
SSTS is in compliance with the requirements of this subchapter. If the SSTS is
determined not to be in compliance with the applicable requirements, a notice
of non-compliance must include a statement specifying those ordinance
provisions with which the SSTS does not comply. A construction permit
application must be submitted to the city if the required corrective action is
not a minor repair.
      (4)   The certificate of compliance or notice of non-compliance must be
submitted to the city no later than 15 calendar days after the date the
inspection was performed.
      (5)   Certificates of compliance for existing SSTS shall remain valid for
three years from the date of issue, unless the city finds evidence of non-
compliance.
   (D)   Transfer of property. Any property on which a SSTS is located shall
not be transferred or sold unless the parties to the transaction have complied
with one of the following:
      (1)   A current certificate of compliance, as provided by division (C)
(3);
      (2)   A winter agreement, as provided in division (A)(4) above;
      (3)   In the event the seller does not provide a certificate of
compliance or compliant operating permit, the seller and buyer may establish a
written agreement or contract to repair, replace, or upgrade the existing SSTS
according to the terms of this subchapter; or
      (4)   The buyer may accept total responsibility of the existing SSTS and
be responsible for the necessary upgrading. In the absence of a written
agreement according to division (A)(4) above, the buyer shall be responsible
for the necessary upgrading of said SSTS.
   (E)   Commercial SSTS.
      (1)   Septic tank effluent testing for carbonaceous biochemical oxygen
demand (CBOD), biological oxygen demand (BOD), total suspended solids (TSS),
nitrogen and oil/grease combination is mandatory for all SSTS that serve
commercial establishments that serve food and beverages or have a flow that
exceeds 1,000 gallons per day as part of any compliance inspection.
      (2)   Effluent testing shall not be required for commercial SSTS that
have a current operating permit as of the date this subchapter is effective. If
all provisions of the operating permit are met, the SSTS shall be considered to
be in compliance.
      (3)   An SSTS with effluent testing that does not meet the standards in
the Minn. Rules part 7080.2150, subpart 3(K), as it may be amended from time to
time, shall be upgraded within three years to meet said standards and be placed
on an operating permit as provided in this subchapter.
   (F)   Vertical separation reduction. Minn. Rules part 7080.1500, subpart 4
(D), as it may be amended from time to time, is hereby adopted, allowing a 15%
reduction in vertical separation distance for settling of sand or soil, normal
variation of measurements, and interpretations of the limiting layer for
existing SSTS. This provision does not apply to §
151.17.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.21 ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this subchapter shall follow the standards in §§
150.305 through
150.307.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.22 STATE NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   The city shall notify the MPCA of any inspection, installation, design,
construction, alteration, or repair of an SSTS by a licensed/certified person
or any septage removal by a licensed maintainer that is performed in violation
of the provisions of this subchapter. The city shall also notify the MPCA of
any discovered straight pipes pursuant to M.S. § 115.55, Subd. 11, as it may be
amended from time to time.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.23 RECORDS.
   The city shall maintain a current record of all permitted systems. The
record shall contain all permit applications, issued permits, fees assessed,
variance requests, certificates of compliance, notices of non-compliance,
enforcement proceedings, site evaluation reports, design reports, record
drawings, management plans, maintenance reports, operating permits, an annual
list of all sewage tanks installed in the city sorted by licensed installation
businesses, and other records the city deems relevant to a particular system.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.24 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The city shall provide an annual report of SSTS permitting activities to
MPCA no later than February 1 for the previous calendar year.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.25 FEES.
   From time to time, the City Council shall set fees for activities and
services undertaken by the city pursuant to this subchapter, by resolution.
Fees shall be due and payable at a time and in a manner to be determined by the
city.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.26 DISPUTE RESOLUTION.
   Resolution of disputes between SSTS certified individuals regarding
conflicting compliance inspections, determination of seasonally saturation of
soils and other technical issues shall follow Minn. Rules part 7082.0700,
subpart 5, as it may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. O-14-02, passed 12-8-2014)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   ANNEXATIONS
      
II.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
III.   MORATORIUMS
TABLE I: ANNEXATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
62a      6-10-2002   Annexing approximately two and three-tenths acres in
                     Section 3, Township 136 located within Sibley Township.
63a      6-10-2002   Amending Ord. 63 to annex approximately one and one-half
                     acres of land in Section 3, Township 136.
64a      8-12-2002   Amending the legal description of territories annexed in
                     Ord. 64.
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
O-19-18  4-24-2019   Granting a franchise agreement to Northern States Power
                     Company for a period of 20 years.
 
TABLE III: MORATORIUMS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
O-1-08   2-11-2008   Establishing a moratorium for one year on the siting of
                     adult establishments.
O-3-08   4-15-2008   Establishing a moratorium for one year on zoning changes.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Section Code Section
M.S. Section                  Code Section
14.57 to 14.70                111.35;
                              111.99
15.99                         150.291
18.77, Subd. 8                91.37
18.83, Subd. 2                91.37
18G.07                        91.02
Chapter 88                    91.55
89.001                        91.02
89.01                         91.02
89.51 through 89.64           91.02
93.44 through 93.51           150.005
103G.005                      150.005
103G.245                      150.219
Chapter 105                   150.002
Chapter 115                   150.002
115.55                        151.01
115.55, Subd. 11              151.22
115.56, Subd. 3(b)(3)         151.19
Chapter 116                   150.002
144.50 to 144.56              150.005
Chapter 145                   150.005
145A.05                       151.01
145A.05, Subd. 1              130.02
160.22                        91.02
160B.011, Subd. 3             91.20
Chapter 169                   10.35;
                              70.15
169.01                        150.005
169.69                        70.03
169.693                       70.03
169.999                       10.98
203B.13                       30.01
307.08                        150.004;
                              150.005
327.15 through 327.35         150.235
Chapter 329                   112.17
                              111.15;
                              111.16;
Chapter 340A                  111.20;
                              111.23;
                              111.35;
                              111.99
340A.101                      111.17;
                              111.22
340A.301, Subd. 6, clause (d) 150.005
340A.404, Subd. 1             111.22
340A.404, Subd. 4(a)          111.22
340A.404, Subd. 4(b)          111.22
340A.404, Subd. 5             111.22
340A.408, Subd. 5             111.23
340A.409                      111.25
340A.412, Subd. 14            111.17
340A.413, Subd. 3             111.20
340A.414, Subd. 6             111.22
340A.503, Subd. 1             130.05
340A.504                      111.32
340A.504, Subd. 3             111.22
340A.509                      111.16
340A.801                      111.25
343.21                        150.106
343.40, Subd. 1               90.04
343.40, Subd. 2               90.04
343.40, Subd. 3               90.04
Chapter 344                   150.106
347.31, Subd. 2               90.11
347.32 to 347.40              90.11
347.50 through 347.565        90.09
347.51                        90.09
347.515                       90.09
347.52                        90.09
347.52(a)                     90.09
347.52(c)                     90.09
375.51                        151.045
Chapter 379                   150.002
394.21 through 395.37         151.01
412.221, Subd. 23             150.005
412.221, Subd. 24             150.005
                              10.35;
Chapter 429                   10.36;
                              152.23
429.061                       91.02;
                              91.24
                              91.02;
429.101                       91.24;
                              91.43
437.02                        112.17
Chapters 462                  150.002;
                              152.23
462.351 to 461.364            150.002
462.357, Subd. 1e             150.008
462.358                       150.264
462.358, Subd. 2b             150.264
462.3593                      150.242
462.3593, Subd. 9             150.242
462.3597                      150.284
463.15 through 463.26         91.01
463.17                        91.23
471.82                        151.01
                              150.002;
Chapter 505                   150.005;
                              150.257;
                              150.259
514.67                        91.01
Chapter 515                   150.002
                              150.002;
Chapter 515A                  150.005;
                              150.257
Chapter 515B                  150.002;
                              150.257
515A.2 through 515A.2-110     150.005
606.01                        10.36
609.205(4)                    90.09
609.226, Subd. 1              90.09
609.29 through 609.352        150.181
609.415                       10.36
Chapter 617                   150.179
617.23 through 617.299        150.181
626.862                       10.20
631.48                        10.99
340A.414                      111.34
                              
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
28       - -         TSO Table I
O-20-19  - -         150.038;
                     150.100
8        3-16-1906   111.01;
                     111.99
16       6-3-1916    112.01;
                     112.99
22       10-16-1922  112.02;
                     112.99
24       10-2-1972   70.15;
                     70.99
42       8-14-1996   TSO Table I
43       11-13-1996  TSO Table I
42A      2-10-1997   TSO Table I
44       5-12-1997   TSO Table I
45       5-12-1997   TSO Table III
46       5-12-1997   TSO Table III
47       5-12-1997   TSO Table III
49       5-28-1998   TSO Table III
52       4-27-2000   TSO Table III
54       11-27-2000  TSO Table III
39A      4-9-2001    TSO Table II
39B      4-9-2001    TSO Table II
                     90.01—
58       7-9-2001    90.12;
                     90.99
62a      6-10-2002   TSO Table I
63a      6-10-2002   TSO Table I
64       6-17-2002   TSO Table I
64a      8-12-2002   TSO Table I
                     111.15—
70       2-12-2007   111.35;
                     111.99
72       4-9-2007    TSO Table III
O-1-08   2-11-2008   TSO Table III
O-3-08   4-15-2008   TSO Table III
O-14-02  12-8-2014   151.01—
                     151.26
O-16-5   2-8-2016    130.01—
                     130.05
O-16-7   4-13-2016   110.01;
                     110.02
                     150.001—
                     150.013;
                     150.025—
                     150.038;
                     150.050—
                     150.057;
                     150.070—
                     150.084;
                     150.100—
                     150.112;
                     150.125—
                     150.131;
                     150.145—
                     150.160;
-        4-10-2017   150.175—
                     150.187;
                     150.200—
                     150.206;
                     150.215—
                     150.221;
                     150.235—
                     150.242;
                     150.255—
                     150.265;
                     150.280—
                     150.291;
                     150.305—
                     150.307;
                     150.999
                     70.01—
O-17-12  11-13-2017  70.04;
                     70.99
                     10.35—
O-18-13  6-11-2018   10.38;
                     10.99
O-19-18  4-24-2019   TSO Table II
O-20-20  - -2000     150.005;
                     150.038
                     150.005;
O-21-21  5-10-2021   150.038;
                     150.050—
                     150.057
O-22-22  10-11-2022  150.005;
                     150.038
O-22-23  10-11-2022  150.100
O-22-24  10-11-2022  150.241;
                     150.999
O-23-25  5-8-2023    150.072
O-23-27  8-14-2023   150.010
O-23-28  8-14-2023   150.028
O-23-29  8-14-2023   150.029
O-23-30  9-11-2023   150.038
O-23-31  9-26-2023   30.01
                     Adopting Ordinance,
O-24-32  4-23-2024   70.99;
                     111.99;
                     112.99
O-24-33  12-9-2024   150.035;
                     150.036
O-24-34  12-9-2024   150.113
O-24-35  12-9-2024   150.106;
                     150.241
O-24-36  12-9-2024   150.005;
                     150.038
O-24-37  12-9-2024   150.026—
                     150.029
O-24-38  12-9-2024   91.38
                    
 
