JORDAN, MINNESOTA
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-13 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 2025-05, passed 8-11-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
(800) 445-5588 www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 2007-002
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A REVISION AND CODIFICATION OF ALL ORDINANCES WITH
CERTAIN ADDITIONS AND DELETIONS FOR THE CITY OF JORDAN, MINNESOTA DEALING WITH
THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN THE CODE OF ORDINANCES AND PROVIDING PENALTIES FOR THE
VIOLATION OF THE CODE OF ORDINANCES.
   WHEREAS, On November 3, 1997, the City of Jordan, Scott County, Minnesota
adopted an ordinance codifying that certain document known as the CITY CODE OF
THE CITY OF JORDAN, MINNESOTA; and
   WHEREAS, M.S. §§ 415.02 and 415.021 authorize the city to organize its
ordinances into code and printed in a book; and
   WHEREAS, the city has undergone a study of its entire Code of Ordinances
examining provisions that need to be repealed, amended, and otherwise changed
to accurately reflect the law of the City of Jordan.
   NOW THEREFORE, The City Council of the City of Jordan, Minnesota, ordains as
follows:
SECTION 1.    ADOPTION. The general ordinances of the city as amended,
restated, revised, updated, codified and compiled in book form including
penalties for the violations of various provisions thereof, except the city's
Zoning Ordinance, are hereby adopted and shall constitute the "Code of
Ordinances of City of Jordan." This Code of Ordinances also adopts by reference
certain statute and administrative rules of the State of Minnesota as named in
the Code of Ordinances.
SECTION 2.    SUBJECTS. The Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall
consist of the following titles:
   Title I:       General Provisions
   Title III:   Administration
   Title V:   Public Works
   Title VII:   Traffic Code
   Title IX:   General Regulations
   Title XI:   Business Regulations
   Title XIII:   General Offenses
   Title XV:   Land Usage
SECTION 3.   REPEALED. All prior ordinances, pertaining to the subjects treated
in the Code of Ordinances, shall be deemed repealed from and after the
effective date of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in
whole or in part in the City of Ordinances. However, the city's Zoning
Ordinance as previously adopted remains in effect until such time as the City
Council changes that ordinance.
   This repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or
any right established prior to the effective date of this ordinance nor shall
this repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying any taxes,
appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises,
or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements,
authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements,
plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or setting the boundaries of
streets or other public places; nor shall this repeal affect any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained in or covered by the Code of Ordinances.
   All fees established in prior ordinances codified in the Code shall remain
in effect unless amended in this Code or until the ordinance adopting the fee
schedule is adopted or amended.
SECTION 4.   PUBLICATION. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances shall
be a sufficient publication of any ordinance included in the Code and not
previously published in the city's official newspaper. The city shall cause a
substantial quantity of the Code of Ordinances to be printed for general
distribution to the public at actual cost and shall tarnish a copy of the Code
of Ordinances to the Scott County Library. The official copy of the Code of
Ordinances shall be marked and kept in the office of the City Administrator/
Clerk.
SECTION 5.   EVIDENCE OF LAW. The Code of Ordinances is declared to be prima
facie evidence of the law of the City of Jordan and shall be received in
evidence as provided by Minnesota Statues by the courts of the State of
Minnesota.
SECTION 6.   EFFECTIVE. This ordinance adopting the Code of Ordinances, and the
Code of Ordinances itself shall take effect upon publication of this ordinance
in the city's official newspaper.
Adopted this 20th day of February, 2007 by the City Council of the City of
Jordan.
APPROVED:
Barry Ullman /s/
Barry Ullman, Acting Mayor
ATTEST:
Edward J. Shukle /s/
Edward J. Shukle, City Administrator
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CITY STANDARDS
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Rules of interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Severability
   
10.07   Reference to other sections
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances repealed
   
10.13   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.14   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Preservation of penalties, offenses, rights and liabilities
   
10.18   Copies of code
   
10.19   Adoption of statutes and rules by reference
   
10.20   Enforcement
   
10.98   Supplemental administrative penalties
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   (A)   All ordinances of a permanent and general nature of the city, as
revised, codified, rearranged, renumbered and consolidated into component
codes, titles, chapters and sections, shall be known and designated as the
Jordan City Code, for which designation “code of ordinances,” “codified
ordinances” or “code” may be substituted. Code title, chapter and section
headings do not constitute any part of the law as contained in the code.
   (B)   All references to codes, titles, chapters and sections are to the
components of the code unless otherwise specified. Any component code may be
referred to and cited by its name, such as the “Traffic Code.” Sections may be
referred to and cited by the designation “§” followed by the number, such as “§
10.01.” Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter
and section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.02 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Generally. Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication
required, the same rules of construction, definition and application shall
govern the interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of
state law.
   (B)   Specific rules of interpretation. The construction of all ordinances
of this city shall be by the following rules, unless that construction is
plainly repugnant to the intent of the legislative body or of the context of
the same ordinance:
      (1)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” whenever the context requires.
      (2)   Acts by assistants. When a statute, code provisions or ordinance
requires an act to be done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as
the principal, that requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the
act by an authorized agent or deputy.
      (3)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
      (4)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of
terms is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted which amend or supplement this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be given their plain or ordinary
and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Jordan, Minnesota. The term CITY when used in this code
may also be used to refer to the City Council and its authorized
representatives.
      CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This city code as modified by
amendment, revision and adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNCIL. The City Council of Jordan, Minnesota.
      COUNTY. Scott County, Minnesota.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A 30-day period.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in those cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED. All terms shall mean a pledge
taken by the person and administered by an individual authorized by state law.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of this city unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes an individual, person, persons, firm,
corporation, copartnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any
clause prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as
applied to any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members
thereof, and as applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Minnesota.
      SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.07 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, that
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state and federal laws,
shall be the official time within this city for the transaction of all city
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a legal holiday or a Sunday, the time to perform shall be extended to the
next day that is not a legal holiday.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.14 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
to it, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to this
indication as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a caption or
title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 PRESERVATION OF PENALTIES, OFFENSES, RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   All offenses committed under laws in force prior to the effective date of
this code shall be prosecuted and remain punishable as provided by those laws.
This code does not affect any rights or liabilities accrued, penalties
incurred, or proceedings begun prior to the effective date of this code. The
liabilities, proceedings and rights are continued; punishments, penalties or
forfeitures shall be enforced and imposed as if this code had not been enacted.
In particular, any agreement granting permission to utilize highway right-of-
ways, contracts entered into or franchises granted, the acceptance,
establishment or vacation of any highway, and the election of corporate
officers shall remain valid in all respects, as if this code had not been
enacted.
§ 10.18 COPIES OF CODE.
   The official copy of this code shall be kept in the office of the City
Administrator for public inspection. The Administrator shall provide a copy for
sale for a reasonable charge.
§ 10.19 ADOPTION OF STATUTES AND RULES BY REFERENCE.
   It is the intention of the City Council that all future amendments to any
state or federal rules and statutes adopted by reference in this code or
referenced in this code are also hereby adopted by reference or referenced
unless there is clear intention expressed in the code to the contrary.
§ 10.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The City Administrator, any licensed peace officer of the city’s
Police Department, or the County Sheriff’s Office, the city’s planning staff,
building inspector and Community Service Officer shall have the authority to
enforce any provision of this code. All persons designated may issue a citation
in lieu of arrest or continued detention to enforce any provision of the code.
   (B)   The City Administrator and any city official or employee designated by
this code who has the responsibility to perform a duty under this code may with
the permission of a licensee of a business or owner of any property or resident
of a dwelling, or other person in control of any premises, inspect or otherwise
enter any property to enforce compliance with this code.
   (C)   If the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of a
property objects to the inspection of or entrance to the property, the City
Administrator, peace officer, or any employee or official charged with the duty
of enforcing the provisions of this code may, upon a showing that probable
cause exists for the issuance of a valid search warrant from a court of
competent jurisdiction, petition and obtain a search warrant before conducting
the inspection or otherwise entering the property. No warrant shall be issued
unless there be probable cause to issue the warrant. Probable cause occurs if
the search is reasonable. Probable cause does not depend on specific knowledge
of the condition of a particular property.
   (D)   Every licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of property
within the city shall permit at reasonable times inspections of or entrance to
the property by the City Administrator or any other authorized city officer or
employee only to determine whether the provisions of this code enacted to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people are being complied with
and to enforce these provisions. Unreasonable refusal to permit the inspection
of or entrance to the property shall be grounds for termination of any and all
permits, licenses or city service to the property. Mailed notice shall be given
to the licensee, owner, resident or other person in control of the property,
stating the grounds for the termination, and the licensee, owner, resident or
other person in control of the property shall be given an opportunity to appear
before the City Administrator to object to the termination before it occurs,
subject to appeal of the Administrator's decision to the City Council at a
regularly scheduled or special meeting.
   (E)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the authority of
the city to enter private property in urgent emergency situations where there
is an imminent danger in order to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
§ 10.98 SUPPLEMENTAL ADMINISTRATIVE PENALTIES.
   (A)   In addition to those administrative penalties established in this code
and the enforcement powers granted in §
10.20, the City Council is authorized to create, by resolution adopted by a
majority of the members of the Council, supplemental administrative penalties.
   (B)   These administrative penalty procedures in this section are intended
to provide the public and the city with an informal, cost effective and
expeditious alternative to traditional criminal charges for violations of
certain provisions of this code. The procedures are intended to be voluntary on
the part of those who have been charged with those offenses.
   (C)   Administrative penalties for violations of various provisions of the
code, other than those penalties established in the code or in statutes that
are adopted by reference, may be established from time to time by resolution of
a majority of the members of the City Council. In order to be effective, an
administrative penalty for a particular violation must be established before
the violation occurred.
   (D)   At its discretion, the city, in a written notice of an alleged
violation, sent by first class mail to the person who is alleged to have
violated the code, may request the payment of a voluntary administrative
penalty for the code violation directly to the City Administrator within 14
days of the notice of the violation. In the sole discretion of the city, the
time for payment may be extended an additional 14 days, whether or not
requested by the person to whom the notice has been given. In addition to the
administrative penalty, the city may ask the alleged violator to adopt a
compliance plan to correct the situation resulting in the alleged violation and
may provide that if the alleged violator corrects the situation resulting in
the alleged violation within the time specified in the notice, that the payment
of the administrative penalty will be waived.
   (E)   At any time before the payment of the administrative penalty is due,
the person who has been given notice of an alleged violation may request to
appear before the City Council to contest the request for payment of the
penalty. After a hearing before the Council, the Council may determine to
withdraw the request for payment or to renew the request for payment. Because
the payment of the administrative penalty is voluntary, there shall be no
appeal from the decision of the Council.
   (F)   At any time after the date the payment of the administrative penalty
is due, if the administrative penalty remains unpaid or the situation creating
the alleged violation remains uncorrected, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code for which another penalty is not specifically provided, shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for
any crime which is a misdemeanor under this code, including Minnesota Statutes
specifically adopted by reference, shall be as listed in M.S. § 609.02, subd.
3, plus prosecution costs.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this
code, including Minnesota Statutes specifically adopted by reference, which is
designated to be a petty misdemeanor shall, upon conviction be guilty of a
petty misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed shall be as listed in M.S.
§ 609.02, subd. 4a., plus prosecution costs and restitution.
   (C)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
   (D)   The failure of any officer or employee of the city to perform any
official duty imposed by this code shall not subject the officer or employee to
the penalty imposed for a violation.
   (E)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this section or in §
10.98, if any person, firm or corporation fails to comply with any provision of
this code, the Council or any city official designated by it, may institute
appropriate proceedings at law or at equity to restrain, correct or abate the
violation.
CHAPTER 11: CITY STANDARDS
Section
   
11.01   City seal
§ 11.01 CITY SEAL.
   All contracts to which the city is a party shall be sealed with the city
seal. The seal shall be kept in the custody of the City Administrator and
affixed by him or her. The official city seal shall be a circular disc having
engraved thereupon “CITY OF JORDAN” and such other words, figures or emblems as
the Council may, by resolution, designate.
(Prior Code, § 2.05)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   COUNCIL AND OFFICERS
      
31.   CITY ORGANIZATION
      
32.   CITY POLICIES
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: COUNCIL AND OFFICERS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Authority of Council
   
30.02   Council meetings; special meetings; time and place
   
30.03   Council procedure
   
30.04   Right to administrative appeal
   
30.05   Rules of procedure for appeals and other hearings
   
30.06   Facsimile signatures
   
30.07   Special election policy
Officers; Compensation
   
30.20   City Administrator
   
30.21   Salaries
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL.
   Pursuant to authority granted by statute, this chapter of the city code is
enacted so as to set down for enforcement the government and good order of the
city by and through the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.01)
§ 30.02 COUNCIL MEETINGS; SPECIAL MEETINGS; TIME AND PLACE.
   (A)   Regular meetings of the Council shall be adopted at the beginning of
each year through a resolution. Any regular meeting falling upon a holiday
shall be held on the next following business day at the same time and place
unless designated by the Council. All meetings, including special, adjourned
and emergency meetings, shall be held in the City Council Chambers or such
other place as the Council may designate.
(Prior Code, § 2.02)
   (B)   Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Mayor or by any 2
other members of the Council to the City Administrator stating the time, place
and purpose of the meeting. Notice of a special meeting shall be given by the
City Administrator to each member of the Council by mailing a copy of the
filing to all members who did not sign or issue the call at least 3 days prior
to the time stated therein, or by personal service at least 72 hours prior to
the projected time of meeting. Special meetings may be held without prior
written notice to the Council when all Council members are present at the
meeting or consent thereto in writing. Any such consent shall be filed with the
City Administrator prior to the beginning of the meeting. Any special meeting
attended by all Council members shall be a valid meeting for the transaction of
any business that may come before the meeting. Meetings of the Council which
are adjourned from time-to-time shall not be subject to the foregoing notice
requirements; nor shall special meetings which, in the judgment of the Council,
require immediate consideration to meet an emergency require the notice, but
may be called by telephone communication or any other expeditious means. Notice
to the public and to news media shall be given as required by statute.
(Prior Code, § 2.03)
(Am. Ord. 2021-15, passed 11-1-2021)
§ 30.03 COUNCIL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Administrator shall prepare the following items:
      (1)   An agenda for the forthcoming meeting;
      (2)   A compiled list of all vendors who have filed verified accounts
requesting payment for goods or services rendered the city during the preceding
month and the amounts;
      (3)   A copy of all minutes to be considered; and
      (4)   Copies of other proposals, communications or other documents as the
City Administrator deems necessary or proper for advance consideration by the
Council.
   (B)   The City Administrator shall forthwith cause to be mailed, delivered,
or conveyed electronically to each member of the Council copies of all
documents.
   (C)   “Rules of City Council Meeting Procedures” created by the City Council
as amended from time to time shall govern all Council meetings as to procedural
matters not set forth in the City Code.
(Prior Code, § 2.04) (Am. Ord. 2018-09, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 30.04 RIGHT TO ADMINISTRATIVE APPEAL.
   If any person shall be aggrieved by any administrative decision of the City
Administrator, any other elected or appointed city official or employee, or any
Board or Commission not having within its structure an appellate procedure, the
aggrieved person is entitled to a full hearing before the Council upon serving
a written request therefor upon the City Administrator or his or her designee
at least 5 business days prior to any regular Council meeting. The request
shall contain a general statement setting forth the administrative decision to
be challenged by the appellant. At such hearing the appellant may present any
evidence he or she deems pertinent to the appeal, but the city shall not be
required to keep a verbatim record of the proceedings. The Mayor, or other
officer presiding at the hearing, may, in the interest of justice or to comply
with time requirements and on his or her own motion or the motion of the
appellant, the City Administrator, or a member of the Council, adjourn the
hearing to a more convenient time or place, but such time or place shall be
fixed and determined before adjournment so as to avoid the necessity for formal
notice of reconvening.
(Prior Code, § 2.06)
§ 30.05 RULES OF PROCEDURE FOR APPEALS AND OTHER HEARINGS.
   The Council may adopt by resolution certain written rules of procedure to be
followed in all administrative appeals and other hearings to be held before the
Council or other bodies authorized to hold hearings and determine questions
therein presented. Such rules of procedure shall be effective 30 days after
adoption and shall be for the purpose of establishing and maintaining order and
decorum in the proceedings.
(Prior Code, § 2.07)
§ 30.06 FACSIMILE SIGNATURES.
   The Mayor and City Administrator are hereby authorized to request a
depository of city funds to honor an order for payment when the instrument
bears a facsimile of his or her signature, and to charge the same to the
account designated thereon or upon which it is drawn, as effectively as though
it were his or her manually written signature. The authority is granted only
for the purpose of permitting the officers an economy of time and effort.
(Prior Code, § 2.08)
§ 30.07 SPECIAL ELECTION POLICY.
   All vacancies in city office shall be filled according to M.S. § 412.02,
City Election, Officers, Terms, Vacancies.
(Ord. 24, Second Series, passed 9-20-1999)
OFFICERS; COMPENSATION
§ 30.20 CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Position established. The position of City Administrator is hereby
established.
   (B)   Appointment and removal. The City Administrator shall be appointed by
the Council for a term determined by contract. He or she shall not be removed
except by affirmative action taken by the Council subject to Minnesota law.
   (C)   Qualifications. The City Administrator shall be selected solely on the
basis of his or her executive and administrative qualifications with special
reference both to his or her experience, formal education, as well as his or
her knowledge of accepted practices pertaining to the duties of his or her
office.
   (D)   Duties. The City Administrator shall be the chief administrative
officer of the city and he or she shall be responsible to the Council for the
proper administration of all affairs of the city and to that end shall have the
power and shall be required to:
      (1)   Supervise the administration of all Departments, offices and
divisions of the city except as otherwise provided by law and carry out any
other responsibilities placed under his or her jurisdiction by this chapter or
by subsequent Council action. He or she shall interview and screen all
prospective city employees as permitted by law and shall make recommendations
for terminating and suspending employees;
      (2)   Develop and issue all administrative rules, regulations and
procedures necessary to insure the proper functioning of all departments and
offices under his or her jurisdiction as permitted by law and Council approval;
      (3)   Prepare and submit an annual budget to the Council and keep the
Council advised of the financial condition of the city and make such
recommendations as he or she may from time to time determine desirable and
necessary;
      (4)   Attend and participate in discussions at all meetings of the
Council and other official bodies as directed by the Council. The City
Administrator shall also represent the city at all official or semi-official
functions as may be directed by the Council and not in conflict with the
prerogatives of the Mayor. The City Administrator shall be entitled to notice
of all regular and special meetings of the Council;
      (5)   See that all laws and provisions of the city code are duly
enforced;
      (6)   Make or let purchases and contracts and to receive estimates,
quotations, sealed bids, purchases or contracts and present them to the Council
for official action;
      (7)   Recommend from time to time the adoption of such measures as he or
she may deem necessary or expedient for the health, safety and welfare of the
community or for the improvement of the administration; and
      (8)   Perform such other duties as may be required by the Council and
consistent with Minnesota Statutes and the city code.
   (E)   Compensation. The City Administrator shall receive such compensation
as the Council shall set from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 2.09)
§ 30.21 SALARIES.
   (A)   Salaries of the Mayor and Council are hereby fixed in amounts as are
deemed reasonable.
   (B)   In addition to the monthly salaries, both the Mayor and each Council
member shall be compensated his or her costs for each full day and for each
half day spent on Council business outside the City of Jordan. Mileage and
reimbursement shall be paid to the Mayor and Council members at the rate
established by IRS Schedule.
   (C)   The Council salaries shall be amended by ordinance, with the effective
date being January 1 of the year after the next election.
   (D)   Per diems. When the Mayor or member(s) of the City Council are
required to attend a meeting that meets the criteria set forth in division (E)
below, a per diem as set by the Council per extra meeting will be paid.
   (E)   Qualifying per diem meetings. The Mayor or member(s) of the City
Council shall receive a per diem for attending meetings of subcommittees of the
City Council to which a Council member has been appointed; city advisory
committees; meetings of bodies to which a Council Member has been appointed;
City Council workshops, if not immediately adjacent to standing City Council
meetings; special Council meetings; or other meetings approved at the
discretion of City Council. Each day of conference will be treated as 1 extra
meeting for per diem payment purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2.12) (Ord. 2022-02, passed 5-23-2022)
CHAPTER 31: CITY ORGANIZATION
Section
Departments
   
31.01   Departments generally
   
31.02   Police Department
   
31.03   Fire Department
   
31.04   Legal Department
   
31.05   Public Works Department
   
31.06   Community Development Department
   
31.07   Engineering Department
   
31.08   Finance Department
Boards and Commissioners
   
31.20   Boards and commissions generally
   
31.21   Planning Commission
   
31.22   Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   
31.23   Park Commission
DEPARTMENTS
§ 31.01 DEPARTMENTS GENERALLY.
   (A)   Control. All departments of the city are under the overall control of
the City Administrator. Heads of all departments are responsible to the
Administrator and subject to his or her supervision and direction, except as
otherwise provided herein.
   (B)   Appointment. All department heads and employees shall be appointed by
the Council with recommendations from the City Administrator and Personnel
Committee. All appointments shall be for an indeterminate term unless otherwise
stated.
   (C)   Compensation. All wages and salaries shall be fixed and determined by
the Council.
   (D)   Table of organization and lines of responsibility. The Council may by
resolution adopt, amend, and from time to time revise, a table of organization
and define lines of responsibility and authority for the efficient governmental
organization of the city.
   (E)   Budgetary information. The heads of all departments shall, prior to
August 1 in each year, file with the City Administrator the projected financial
needs of his or her department for the ensuing year. The projections shall
include information as to maintenance and operation of equipment, new
equipment, personnel, and such other information as may be requested by the
City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 2.20)
§ 31.02 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Police Department. A Police Department is hereby established. The Head
of this Department shall be known as the Chief of Police, and the number of
additional members and employees of the Police Department shall be determined
by the Council which may be changed from time-to-time. The Chief of Police and
all sworn members of the Police Department shall have the powers and authority
of police officers generally and shall perform such duties as are required of
them by the Council or by law. The Chief of Police shall have overall
supervision and management of the Police Department and custody of all property
used and maintained for the purposes of the Department. The Chief of Police
shall make and file such reports as may be requested by the Council.
   (B)   Police Reserve Unit. A Police Reserve Unit is hereby established. The
Police Reserve Unit is to be operated as a voluntary auxiliary force to
supplement the Police Department. The Chief of Police shall have overall
supervision and management of the Police Reserve Unit.
(Prior Code, § 2.21) (Am. Ord. 19, Second Series, passed 4-9-1999)
§ 31.03 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   A Fire Department is hereby established. The size and composition
(including, but not limited to, a determination as to permanent and volunteer
members) shall be established by resolution of the Council, which may be
changed from time-to-time by a subsequent resolution. The Council shall also
establish, and from time to time revise and amend, by-laws of the Department
including, but not limited to, its internal structural organization and
compensation, a copy of which shall be distributed to each of its members
whenever established, revised or amended. The Chief of the Fire Department
shall have general supervision of the Fire Department and custody of all
property used and maintained for the purposes of the Department. He or she
shall see that the same are kept in proper order and that all rules and
regulations and all provisions of the laws of the state and ordinances of the
city relative to a Fire Department and to prevention and extinguishment of
fires are duly observed. He or she shall supervise the preservation of all
property endangered by fire and shall control and direct all persons engaged in
preserving the property. In case of the absence or disability of the Chief for
any cause, the Assistant Chief shall exercise all powers, perform all the
duties and be subject to all the responsibilities of the Chief. The Chief of
the Fire Department shall make and file such reports as may be requested by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.22)
§ 31.04 LEGAL DEPARTMENT.
   A Legal Department is hereby established. The Council shall appoint a City
Attorney, who shall be head of the Legal Department, together with such
assistants as may be necessary who shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.
The City Attorney shall perform such duties as are required of him or her by
law or requested by the Council or the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 2.23)
§ 31.05 PUBLIC WORKS DEPARTMENT.
   A Public Works Department is hereby established. The head of such Department
shall be the Director of Public Works. The city water, sewer systems and parks
shall be under the direct supervision of the Director and he or she shall be
responsible for and have custody of all property of the Department. The
Director shall make and file such reports as may be requested by the Council or
the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 2.24)
§ 31.06 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT.
   A Community Development Department is hereby established. The head of the
Community Development Department shall be the Community Development Director
who shall oversee community development and be responsible for the enforcement
of all applicable City Code provisions and shall oversee the building activity
within the city. Under the Community Development Department, the Building
Inspector (referred to in the state’s Building Code as the “Administrative
Authority”) shall be appointed annually to carry out the provisions of the
State Building Code and the provisions of the City Code relating to
construction. The Community Development Director shall submit a periodic report
to the Council covering the work of his or her Department for intervals
required by the Council or the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 2.25)
§ 31.07 ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.
   An Engineering Department is hereby established. The head of this Department
shall be the City Engineer who shall perform such duties as are required of him
or her, or referred to him or her, by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.26)
§ 31.08 FINANCE DEPARTMENT.
   A Finance Department is hereby established. The head of this Department
shall be the Finance Director and the number of additional employees shall be
determined by the City Council from time-to-time. The Finance Director may be
appointed as a Deputy Treasurer upon the recommendation of the City
Administrator. The Finance Director shall supervise and manage the Finance
Department operations to include all accounting and fiscal management
activities; manage and be accountable for all property and equipment used; and
make and file such reports as may be requested by the City Council or the City
Administrator.
(Ord. 18, Second Series, passed 3-1-1999)
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONERS
§ 31.20 BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   All board and commission members shall serve in an advisory capacity
to the Council. The term of each appointee shall be established and stated at
the time of his or her appointment, and terms of present board and commission
members may be reestablished and changed so as to give effect to this section.
New appointees shall assume office at the first meeting after the appointment.
All vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as for an expired term, but
the appointment shall be only for the unexpired term. All appointed board and
commission members shall be paid a stipend at a rate set by the Council.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall be chosen from the board or commission
membership annually to serve for 1 year; provided, however, that no Chairperson
shall be elected who has not completed at least 1 year as a member of the board
or commission. Any board or commission member may be removed by the Council for
misfeasance, malfeasance or non-feasance in office and his or her position
filled as any other vacancy.
   (C)   Each board and commission shall hold its regular meeting at a time
established and approved by the Council. All members shall be residents of the
city, except that 2 members of each board or commission may be residents of a
neighboring township if the Council deems such arrangement more representative.
   (D)   The process of appointment to a city board or commission shall be as
follows:
      (1)   At any time the candidate fills out an application, which shall be
retained by the City Clerk or designee until a vacancy or unexpired term on the
requested board or commission occurs.
      (2)   The appropriate board or commission shall interview the applicants
at an open meeting. The board or commission members shall prepare questions for
the applicants. Each board or commission may determine whether the interviews
shall be conducted by the entire commission or a subcommittee.
      (3)   After the interviews, deliberation about the applicants shall occur
at an open meeting attended by a quorum of the members of the board or
commission. A majority of the quorum present shall recommend applicants to the
City Council to fill vacancies or unexpired terms. Then-sitting members whose
terms will be expiring may vote on their own vacancy and any other vacancies.
If a board or commission cannot muster a quorum to vote on the candidates, the
names of all candidates will be forwarded to the Council.
      (4)   The City Administrator shall place approval/disapproval of the
recommended candidates on the agenda for the next City Council meeting if
practical. The City Council shall vote to approve or not approve each applicant
recommended by the various boards and commissions. However, pursuant to M.S. §
469.095, Subd. 2, commissioners of the EDA shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the approval of the City Council.
   (E)   City employees who are residents may serve on boards and commissions
if there is no conflict of interest. The City Administrator or designee shall
be the staff liaison to all board and commissions, but shall have no voting
rights and cannot make motions. One of the members of each board and commission
shall be a Council member appointed annually, but not to extend beyond the end
of the then-current term being served by the Council member. Pursuant to M.S. §
469.095, Subd. 2, 2 members of the EDA must be Council members. The Council
member shall serve as an ex-officio member of the board or commission with
rights to vote and make motions.
   (F)   Except as otherwise provided, this section shall apply to all boards
and commissions.
(Prior Code, § 2.33) (Am. Ord. 2011-02, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 31.21 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment and composition. A Planning Commission is hereby
established. One Council member shall be an ex-officio member.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall have all the powers
and duties defined or granted in the statutes and the City Code relating to
planning, zoning and subdivision regulation and shall act in an advisory
capacity to the Council in all of such areas. In its discretion, the Council
may reassign tasks of the Park and Recreation Commission pursuant to §
31.23(B) to the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.34) (Am. Ord. 2014-07, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 31.22 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.
   The City Council shall serve as the Board of Adjustment and Appeals. The
Planning Commission shall serve as a recommending body to the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals.
   (A)   Duties.
      (1)   The Board shall act upon all questions that may arise in the
administration of the zoning provisions, including interpretation of the zoning
maps.
      (2)   The Board shall have the power to grant variances to the zoning
provisions.
      (3)   The Board shall hear and decide appeals from and review any order,
requirement, decision or determination made by an administrative official
charged with enforcing the zoning provisions. The appeal may be taken by any
person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of a town,
municipality, county or state.
   (B)   Hearings. Hearings shall be held by the Planning Commission in
accordance with the Board's adopted rules for the transaction of its business.
Any party may appear at the hearing in person or by agent or attorney.
   (C)   Decision and order. The Board may reverse, affirm wholly or partly, or
modify the order, requirement, decision, or determination appealed and to that
end shall have all the powers of the officer from whom the appeal was taken and
may issue or direct the issuance of a permit. Within a reasonable time period,
the Board shall make its order deciding the matter and shall serve a copy of
such order stating the reasons for its decision upon the petitioner by mail.
The Board's decision shall be final except to the extent the aggrieved party
may have a right to appeal questions of law and fact to the Scott County
District Court.
(Prior Code, § 2.35) (Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-011,
passed 8-18-2014)
§ 31.23 PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment and composition. A Park and Recreation Commission is
hereby established. The Board shall be composed of minimum 5 and maximum 7
members and shall serve staggered 2-year terms. If the Council reassigns all
Park and Recreation Commission tasks to the Planning Commission as provided in
division (B) below, the Park and Recreation Commission shall be dissolved but
Council, in its discretion, can later revive the Commission by appointing new
members.
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Park Commission shall have the responsibility
to advise the Council on park maintenance, development plats, Park
Comprehensive Plan and future park expansions. The Park Commission is
authorized to receive and accept, in the name of the city, gifts or devises of
real or personal property to be used for park purposes. In its discretion, the
Council may reassign a task or tasks of the Park and Recreation Commission to
the Planning Commission for an indefinite or specific period of time. Such
reassignment can be made when the Council determines at a regular Council
meeting the reassignment of task(s) will enhance residents' experiences in city
parks.
(Prior Code, § 2.36) (Am. Ord. 2014-07, passed 6-2-2014; Am. Ord. 2015-03,
passed 3-16-2015)
CHAPTER 32: CITY POLICIES
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Workers’ Compensation
   
32.02   Disposal of excess property
   
32.03   Special assessment policy
   
32.04   Partial prepayment of special assessments
   
32.05   Conveyances by contract for deed
   
32.06   Required filing of certain documents
   
32.07   Special assessment deferrals
Personnel
   
32.20   Policies and regulations
   
32.21   Criminal histories and background checks
Franchises
   
32.35   Definition
   
32.36   Franchise ordinances
   
32.37   Power of regulation reserved
   
32.38   Conditions in every franchise
   
32.39   Further provisions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION.
   (A)   All officials of the city appointed to fill a position identified in
Minnesota Statutes for statutory cities shall be included in the definition of
“employee”, as defined in Minnesota Statutes relating to coverage for purposes
of workers’ compensation entitlement.
   (B)   All officials of the city elected or appointed for a regular term of
office or to complete the unexpired portion of any such regular term shall be
covered under an accident insurance policy that provides for medical payments
if the elected or appointed individual is performing in an official capacity.
(Prior Code, § 2.13) (Am. Ord. 17, Second Series, passed 2-16-1999)
§ 32.02 DISPOSAL OF EXCESS PROPERTY.
   (A)   Declaration of surplus and authorizing sale of property. The City
Administrator may, from time to time, recommend to the Council that certain
personal property (chattels) owned by the city is no longer needed for a
municipal purpose and should be sold. By action of the Council, the property
shall be declared surplus, the value estimated and the City Administrator
authorized to dispose of the property in the manner stated herein.
   (B)   Surplus property with a total estimated value of less than $100. The
City Administrator may sell surplus property with a total value of less than
$100 through negotiated sale.
   (C)   Surplus property with a total estimated value between $100 and $500.
The City Administrator shall offer for public sale by auction, to the highest
bidder, surplus property with a total estimated value of $100 to $500. Notice
of the public sale shall be given at least 10 days prior to the date of sale at
the City Administrator’s option by either publication once in the official
newspaper, or by posting in a conspicuous place in the City Hall stating time
and place of sale and generally describing the property to be sold.
   (D)   Surplus property with a total estimated value over $500. The City
Administrator shall offer for public sale, to the highest bidder, surplus
property with a total estimated value over $500. Notice of the public sale
shall be given at least 10 days prior to the date of sale by publication once
in the official newspaper stating time and place of sale and generally
describing property to be sold. Interested purchasers shall provide a sealed
bid or the City Administrator may, at the Administrator's discretion, choose an
electronic sale process described in M.S. § 471.345, subd. 17. The City Council
may choose to reject all bids if the bids do not adequately reimburse the city
its costs.
   (E)   The City Administrator shall take custody of property that comes into
the city’s possession in the course of the city’s municipal operations. The
City Administrator may offer for sale to the highest bidder all unclaimed
property, excluding police forfeited property governed by division (F) herein,
that remains unclaimed by its owner for a period of 60 days. The unclaimed
property may be sold either by public auction or sale or by a private sale
through a nonprofit organization that has a significant mission of community
service. If the sale is to be by public auction, the city shall give 10 days’
published notice describing the property found or recovered and to be sold, and
specifying the time and place of sale. The notice must be published at least
once in a legal newspaper published in the city or, if there is none in the
city, published in Scott County. All funds received from the sale of unclaimed
property shall be deposited into the General Fund, subject to the right of the
former owner to payment of the sale price from the General Fund upon
application and satisfactory proof of ownership within 6 months of the sale.
   (F)   Police forfeited property. The Chief of Police at his or her
discretion, may offer for sale or trade any vehicles, real estate, or other
property obtained by the forfeiture of property statutes governing such as
listed in Minnesota State Statutes. Proceeds from such sale shall be
distributed and disbursed based on state statutes governing forfeiture
proceeds.
   (G)   Receipts from sales of surplus property. All receipts from sales of
surplus property under this section shall be placed in the General Fund.
   (H)   Persons who may not purchase; exception.
      (1)   No employee of the city who is a member of the administrative
staff, a department head, a member of the Council, or an advisor serving the
city in a professional capacity, may be a purchaser of property under this
section. Other city employees may be purchasers if they are not directly
involved in the sale, and if they are the highest responsible bidder pursuant
to the above process.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to be a purchaser of property under
this section if the purchase is prohibited by the terms of this section.
(Prior Code, § 2.60) (Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 5-1-2017)
§ 32.03 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT POLICY.
   The Council may, by resolution, adopt, from time-to-time amend, or repeal a
special assessment policy.
(Prior Code, § 2.66)
§ 32.04 PARTIAL PREPAYMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   After the adoption of an assessment roll pursuant to M.S. Chapter 429,
as amended, but before the County Auditor certifies the assessment roll, the
City Administrator, or other authorized official, is authorized and directed to
accept partial prepayment of the assessment. They may then reduce the amount
certified to the County Auditor accordingly. As provided by law, such partial
prepayment may be accepted only during the 30-day period following approval of
the assessment roll.
   (B)   This section shall apply to all assessment rolls which, on the
effective date hereof, have been adopted by the Council but not yet certified
to the County Auditor, and to all assessment rolls subsequently adopted by the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.62)
§ 32.05 CONVEYANCES BY CONTRACT FOR DEED.
   The city may commence an action to require recordation of all contracts for
deed and assignments. Written notice to record shall be sufficient if it is
given either to the vendor or the vendee named in the contract for deed or
assignment. The notice shall be given at least 10 days before the date by which
recordation is required.
(Prior Code, § 2.64)
§ 32.06 REQUIRED FILING OF CERTAIN DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   A certified copy of every ordinance, resolution, map, or regulation
which relates to subdivision regulations, land needed for future street
purposes and as sites for other necessary public facilities and services, and
conditional use permits shall be filed with the County Recorder.
   (B)   A certified copy of every variance to subdivision regulations shall be
filed with the County Recorder. Provided, that this requirement is satisfied if
a resolution citing the existence of the variance is filed identifying the
location where the variance documents are available for inspection.
   (C)   A copy of a comprehensive plan shall be filed with all contiguous
municipalities.
   (D)   Copies of resolutions approving subdivision plats of land shall be
filed with all contiguous municipalities.
(Prior Code, § 2.65)
§ 32.07 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DEFERRALS.
   (A)   Procedure established. The City Council may defer the payment of any
special assessment on the homestead property owned by a person who qualifies
under one of the hardship criteria set forth in divisions (B), (C) and (E).
      (1)   The homeowner shall make application for deferred payment of
special assessments on a form prescribed by the Scott County Auditor and
supplemented by the Jordan City Administrator. The application shall be made
within 30 days after the adoption of the assessment roll by the City Council
and shall be renewed each year upon the filing of a similar application no
later than September 30.
      (2)   The City Administrator shall establish a case number for each
application; review the application for complete information and details and
make a recommendation to the City Council to either approve or disapprove the
application for deferment. The City Council, by majority vote, shall either
grant or deny the deferment. If the deferment is granted, the City Council may
require the payment of interest due each year. Renewal applications will be
approved by the City Administrator for those cases whereby the original
conditions for qualifications remain substantially unchanged.
      (3)   If the City Council grants the deferment, the City Administrator
shall notify the County Auditor who shall in accordance with M.S. § 435.194,
record a notice of the deferment with the County Recorder setting forth the
amount assessed.
   (B)   Hardship determination. A hardship is deemed to exist if the applicant
meets all of the following conditions:
      (1)   Any applicant must be 65 years of age, or older, and must own a
legal or equitable interest in the property applied for which must be the
homestead of the applicant.
      (2)   The annual gross income of the applicant shall not be in excess of
the income limits as set forth by family size for the City of Jordan,
Attachment A to Ordinance 86-03 (adjusted annually in conjunction with the
Minneapolis-St. Paul Consumer Price Index). Calculation of the total family
income shall be determined by the summation of all available income sources of
the applicant and spouse. Income specified in the application should be the
income of the year preceding the year in which the application is made, or the
average income of the 3 prior to the year in which the application is made,
whichever is less.
      (3)   The total special assessments to be deferred exceed $1,000.
      (4)   Interest shall be charged on any assessment deferred pursuant to
this section at a rate equal to the rate charged on other assessments for the
particular public improvement project the assessment is financing. If the City
Council grants an assessment deferral to an applicant, the interest may also be
deferred, or the interest may be due and payable on a yearly basis up until the
assessment period terminates and only the principal is deferred. The decision
to defer the principal and interest or just the principal shall be decided by
the City Council when considering the initial application.
   (C)   Exceptional and unusual circumstances.
      (1)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, the City
Council, upon recommendation by the City Administrator, may consider
exceptional and unusual circumstances pertaining to a physical hardship
relating to an applicant not covered by the conditions herein. This authority
is granted to the City Council pursuant to M.S. § 435.193. Any determination
shall be made in a nondiscriminatory manner and shall not give the applicant an
unreasonable preference or advantage over the other applicants.
      (2)   The following conditions may qualify an applicant for an assessment
deferral. A hardship is deemed to exist if the applicant meets all of the
following conditions:
         (a)   An applicant must be retired by reason of a permanent and/or
total disability and must own a legal or equitable interest in the property
applied for which must be the homestead of the applicant.
         (b)   Permanent and/or total disability shall be determined by using
the criteria established for “permanent and total disability” for Worker’s
Compensation.
         (c)   An applicant must substantiate the retirement by reason of
permanent and/or total disability by providing a sworn affidavit by a licensed
medical doctor attesting that the applicant is unable to be gainfully employed
because of a permanent and/or total disability.
         (d)   The annual gross income of the applicant shall not be in excess
of the income limits as set forth by family size for the City of Jordan,
Attachment A to Ordinance 86-03 (adjusted annually in conjunction with the
Minneapolis-St. Paul Consumer Price Index). Calculation of the total family
income shall be determined by the summation of all available income sources of
the applicant and spouse. Income specified in the application should be the
income of the year preceding the year in which the application is made, or the
average income of the 3 years prior to the year in which the application is
made, whichever is less.
         (e)   The total special assessments to be deferred exceed $1,000.
      (3)   Interest shall be charged on any assessment deferred pursuant to
this section at the same interest rate on the assessments levied for the same
public improvement project. If the City Council grants an assessment deferral
to an applicant, the interest may also be deferred, or the interest may be due
and payable on a yearly basis up until the assessment period terminates and
only the principal is deferred. The decision to defer the principal and
interest or just the principal shall be decided by the City Council when
considering the initial application.
   (D)   Termination of deferral.
      (1)   The option to defer the payment of special assessments shall
terminate and all amounts accumulated plus applicable interest shall become due
upon the occurrence of any 1 of the following events:
         (a)   The death of an owner when there is no spouse eligible for
deferment.
         (b)   The sale, transfer, or subdivision of all or any part of the
property.
         (c)   Loss of homestead status on the property.
         (d)   Determination by the City Council for any reason that there
would be no hardship to require immediate or partial payment.
         (e)   Failure to file a renewal application within the time prescribed
in division (A).
      (2)   Upon the occurrence of one of the events specified in division (D),
the City Council shall terminate the deferment. Thereupon the City
Administrator shall notify the County Auditor and County Assessor of the
termination, including the amounts accumulated on unpaid principal
installments, plus any applicable interest, which shall become due and payable
as a result of the termination. The City Administrator may negotiate and
establish a payment schedule on the principal and interest owed after the
deferment terminates.
PERSONNEL
§ 32.20 POLICIES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Council may, by resolution, establish personnel policies setting forth
the rights, duties and responsibilities of employees. The policies may from
time-to-time be amended.
(Prior Code, § 2.61)
§ 32.21 CRIMINAL HISTORIES AND BACKGROUND CHECKS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CHILDREN. Any person who is under 18 years of age.
      CRIMINAL RECORD CHECK. An inquiry into public criminal arrest and police
contact data of the Police Department and “CJIS” Minnesota Criminal Justice
Information System information obtained through the Minnesota Bureau of
Criminal Apprehension from Purpose Code E, which is used for inquires about
licensing or employment purposes and will retrieve data of convictions only.
Other inquiries for licensing or employment purposes obtained from “Purpose
Code E” include the following: janitorial staff, community education workers,
and child contact workers. “Purpose Code E” is the least restrictive of the
purpose codes and is the same arrest and conviction information the general
public may obtain about another person at the Minnesota Bureau of Criminal
Apprehension.
      MANAGER. The owner, the agent or any other individual responsible for
receiving lease applications or rent payments or authorizing the lease or rent
of an apartment, house, manufactured home or lot for the placement of a
manufactured home and who has received a certificate of completion from the
Crime Free Multi-housing Program or as defined in M.S. § 299C.67, Subd.4.
      PUBLIC SAFETY SENSITIVE POSITIONS. Paid and volunteer positions with the
City of Jordan, which because of their nature and description require a high
level of interaction with the public, uncontrolled access to private property,
and positions of influence and leadership over children and other vulnerable
individuals including, but not limited to volunteer fire fighters, volunteer
police reserves, civilian police personnel, city meter readers, building
officials, code enforcement personnel, rental inspectors, neighborhood watch
block captains, volunteers for the McGruff program, residential property
managers in accordance with M.S. §§ 299C.67 to 299C.71 and all other
individuals who work directly with children or vulnerable adults.
      TENANT. Any individual, other than a relative who is renting or
attempting to rent or lease an apartment, house, manufactured home or a lot for
the placement of a manufactured home.
      VEHICLE REGISTRATION CHECK. A record check through the Minnesota
Department of Motor Vehicles.
   (B)   City job applicant information required. All individuals making an
application for a Public Safety Sensitive Position shall complete an
application which shall contain the following:
      (1)   Full name, place and date of birth, present residence address, and
residence address for the past 5 years.
      (2)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name other
than his or her present name. If so, what name or names were used and
information concerning dates and places where the names were used.
      (3)   Whether the applicant is married or single. If married, the full
name, place and date of birth, and residence of the applicant’s present spouse.
      (4)   Any other information necessary to complete the criminal record
check as required by the city.
   (C)   Background investigation on city public safety sensitive positions.
The Department Director responsible for the public safety sensitive employee
shall furnish the application or copy of the application of the applicant and
the fingerprints of the applicant for a public safety sensitive position to the
Chief of Police. The Chief of Police or his or her designee shall complete a
criminal record check for background check crimes and drivers record check of
the applicant by submitting the applicant information and fingerprints to the
Bureau of Criminal Apprehension. Upon receiving the conviction information from
the Police Chief, the City Administrator shall determine whether the conviction
record disqualifies the applicant and if, so shall follow the requirements of
M.S. Ch 364.
   (D)   Applicant information required. Upon request of the Manager, all
people making an application for housing shall complete an application which
shall contain the following:
      (1)   Full name, place and date of birth, present residence and address,
and residence address for the past 5 years.
      (2)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name other
than his or her present name. If so, what name or names were used and
information concerning dates and places where names were used.
      (3)   Whether the applicant is married or single. If married, the full
name, place and date of birth, and residence of the applicant’s present spouse.
      (4)   Whether the applicant, applicant’s spouse, applicant’s child, or
any other person permanently residing with applicant has been convicted of any
crime. If so, the applicant shall furnish information as to the time, place,
and offense resulting in the conviction.
      (5)   Any other information necessary to complete the criminal record
check as required by the Manager.
   (E)   Signed consent to release information required. Upon request of the
Manager, a tenant shall sign a consent to release information. The consent to
release information shall be a form approved by the Chief of Police. Failure to
sign a consent to release information or to provide the required information
may cause a rejection of the application and lease or rental agreement.
   (F)   Background investigation on tenants.
      (1)   The Chief of Police shall conduct a criminal record check and a
police contact check and drivers conviction record check on a tenant for a fee,
for managers who provide a consent for release of information signed by the
tenant. The consent release forms shall contain:
         (a)   A notification to the tenant that the Manager will request the
Chief of Police to conduct a criminal record check;
         (b)   A notification of the right to obtain a copy of the criminal
record check;
         (c)   The right to challenge the accuracy and completeness of the
criminal record report;
         (d)   The right to be informed by the Manager if the application for
housing has been denied based upon the presence of background check crimes.
      (2)   As allowed for by Pub. Law No. 104-120, the Police Department
shall, upon request, provide information to public housing agencies regarding
the criminal conviction records of adult applicants for public housing.
   (G)   Background checks on managers. The Police Department shall provide
background checks on the managers of rental units as provided for in M.S. §§
299C.67 to 299C.71.
   (H)   Information to be protected. Information which is gathered in the
background investigation which is not deemed public data under the Minnesota
Data Practices Act shall not be released to the requesting Department Director
or Manager. The information gathered shall only be used by the manager for the
purpose of approving or rejecting the application for housing or by the
Department Director for employment purposes.
   (I)   Drivers license information. A drivers license records check shall be
made upon request for city employees and public request.
      (1)   Upon request, the Chief of Police shall conduct a drivers license
records investigation of city employee applications and employees for insurance
purposes and to assure compliance with driver license requirements for city
vehicle operation.
      (2)   Upon request of a citizen and upon verification of the
identification of the requesting person, the Chief of Police is authorized to
conduct a driver’s arrest record check for that requesting citizen for a fee.
   (J)   Criminal record check. Upon request of a citizen and upon verification
of the identification of the requesting person, the Chief of Police is
authorized to conduct a criminal record check on that person for a fee.
   (K)   Vehicle registration checks. Upon request of a citizen for a vehicle
record check on his or her vehicle and verification of identification of the
individual requesting the information and a fee the Chief of Police may conduct
a record check for that individual. Upon request of a property owner who has a
vehicle sitting on his or her private property and upon verification of the
identification of the property owner, the Chief of Police may conduct a vehicle
registration check for that person.
   (L)   Illegal acts. It is illegal for the Manager or tenant to furnish false
information to the Chief of Police for the purpose of this section.
   (M)   Fees. Fees to support the cost of requests for background
investigation checks produced as a result of this section shall be set from
time by the City Council.
(Ord. 39, Second Series, passed 11-20-2000 ; Am. Ord. 2009-001, passed 2-17-
2009)  Penalty, see §
10.99
FRANCHISES
§ 32.35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FRANCHISE. Any special privileges granted to any person in, over, upon, or
under any of the streets or public places of the city, whether the privilege
has heretofore been granted by it or by the State of Minnesota, or shall
hereafter be granted by the city or by the State of Minnesota.
(Prior Code, § 2.63)
§ 32.36 FRANCHISE ORDINANCES.
   (A)   The Council may grant franchises by ordinance.
   (B)   Franchise rights shall always be subject to the superior right of the
public to the use of streets and public places. All persons desiring to make
any burdensome use of the streets or public places, inconsistent with the
public’s right in such places, or desiring the privilege of placing in, over,
upon, or under any street or public place any permanent or semi-permanent
fixtures for the purpose of constructing or operating railways, telegraphing,
or transmitting electricity, or transporting by pneumatic tubes, or for
furnishing to the city or its inhabitants or any portion thereof,
transportation facilities, water, light, heat, power, gas, or any other
utility, or for any other purpose, shall be required to obtain a franchise
before proceeding to make use of the streets or public places or before
proceeding to place the fixtures in the places.
(Prior Code, § 2.63)
§ 32.37 POWER OF REGULATION RESERVED.
   The city shall have the right and power to regulate and control the exercise
by any person, of any franchise however acquired, and whether the franchise has
been heretofore granted by it or by the State of Minnesota.
(Prior Code, § 2.63)
§ 32.38 CONDITIONS IN EVERY FRANCHISE.
   All conditions specified in this section shall be a part of every franchise
even though they may not be expressly contained in the franchise.
   (A)   The grantee shall be subject to and will perform on its part all the
terms of this section and will comply with all pertinent provisions of the City
Code, as the same may from time to time be amended.
   (B)   The grantee shall in no case claim or pretend to exercise any power to
fix fares, rates, and charges; but that such fares, rates, and charges shall at
all times be just, fair and reasonable for the services rendered and shall in
all cases be fixed and from time to time changed, unless regulated by an agency
of the State of Minnesota, in the manner following:
      (1)   A reasonable rate shall be construed to be one which will, with
efficient management, normally yield above all operating expenses and
depreciation, a fair return upon all money invested.
      (2)   If possible, maximum rates and charges shall be arrived at by
direct negotiation with the Council.
      (3)   If direct negotiations fail to produce agreement, the Council
shall, not less than 30 days before the expiration of any existing rate
schedule or agreement, appoint an expert as its representative, the franchisee
shall likewise appoint an expert as its representative and the 2 of them shall
appoint a third person, preferably an expert, and the 3 of them shall
constitute a board of arbitration. The Board shall report its findings as soon
as possible and the rates and charges it shall agree upon by majority vote
shall be legal and binding, subject only to review by a court of competent
jurisdiction upon application of 1 of the parties.
   (C)   The Council shall have the right to require reasonable extensions of
any public service system from time to time, and to make such rules and
regulations as may be required to secure adequate and proper service and to
provide sufficient accommodations for the public.
   (D)   The grantee shall not issue any capital stock on account of the
franchise or the value thereof, and that the grantee shall have no right to
receive upon condemnation proceedings brought by the city to acquire the public
utility exercising such franchise, any return on account of the franchise or
its value.
   (E)   No sale or lease of said franchise shall be effective until the
assignee or lessee shall have filed with the city an instrument, duly executed,
reciting the facts of the sale or lease, accepting the terms of the franchise,
and agreeing to perform all the conditions required of the grantee thereunder.
   (F)   Every grant of a franchise permitting the erection of poles, masts, or
other fixtures in the streets and for the attachment of wires thereto, or for
the laying of tracks in, or of pipes or conduits under the streets or public
places, or for placing in the streets or other public places any permanent or
semi-permanent fixtures whatsoever, shall be subject to the conditions that the
Council shall have the power to require such alterations therein, or relocation
or rerouting thereof, as the Council may at any time deem necessary, for the
safety, health, or convenience of the public. Particularly, the Council shall
have the power to require the removal of poles, masts, and other fixtures
bearing wires and placing underground all facilities for whatsoever purpose
used.
   (G)   Every franchise shall contain a provision granting the city the right
to acquire the same in accordance with statute.
   (H)   That the franchisee may be obligated by the city to pay the city fees
to raise revenue or defray increased costs accruing as a result of utility
operations, or both, including, but not limited to, a sum of money based upon
gross operating revenues or gross earnings from its operations in the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.63)
§ 32.39 FURTHER PROVISIONS.
   The enumeration and specification of particular matters which must be
included in every franchise or renewal or extension thereof, shall not be
construed as impairing the right of the city to insert in any such franchise or
renewal or extension thereof such other and further conditions and restrictions
as the Council may deem proper to protect the city’s interests, nor shall
anything contained in this section limit any right or power possessed by the
city over existing franchises.
(Prior Code, § 2.63)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
33.01   Interim emergency succession
   
33.02   Statute adoption
   
33.03   Emergency Management Agency
   
33.04   Emergency Preparedness Plan
   
33.05   Political subdivision powers
§ 33.01 INTERIM EMERGENCY SUCCESSION.
   (A)   Purpose. A disaster may require a declaration of a state of emergency,
thus it is necessary to insure the continuity of the government through
emergency interim succession of key necessary officials by providing a method
for temporary emergency appointments.
   (B)   Succession to local offices. In the event of a disaster affecting the
vicinity of the city, the Mayor, Council and City Administrator shall be
immediately notified by any one of the persons and by any means available to
gather at the City Hall. In the event that safety or convenience dictate, an
alternative meeting place may be designated. Those gathered shall proceed as
follows:
      (1)   If the Mayor is present, he or she will conduct the meeting; if
not, by majority vote of those persons present, regardless of number, they
shall elect a Chairperson and Secretary to preside and keep minutes,
respectively.
      (2)   They shall review and record the specific facts relating to the
attack or disaster and injuries to persons or damage to property, or the
imminent threat thereof.
      (3)   They may, based on such facts, declare a state of emergency.
      (4)   By majority vote of those persons present, regardless of number,
shall fill all positions on the Council, (including the office of Mayor) of
those persons upon whom notice could not be served or who are unable to be
present.
      (5)   The interim successors shall serve until such time as the duly
elected official is again available and returns to his or her position, or the
state of emergency has passed and a successor is designated and qualifies as
required by law, whichever shall occur first.
   (C)   Duties of the Interim Emergency Council. The Interim Emergency Council
shall exercise the powers and duties of their offices, and appoint other key
government officials to serve during the emergency.
(Prior Code, § 2.10)
§ 33.02 STATUTE ADOPTION.
   The “Minnesota Emergency Management Act of l996”, M.S. Chapter 12, insofar
as it relates to cities, is hereby adopted by reference as part of this
chapter, as though fully set forth herein.
(Prior Code, § 2.11)
§ 33.03 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY.
   An Emergency Management Agency is hereby created, which shall be under the
supervision of a Director to be appointed by the Mayor. The Director shall have
direct responsibility for the organization, administration and operation of the
Emergency Management Agency, subject to the overall direction and control of
the Council.
(Prior Code, § 2.11)
§ 33.04 EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS PLAN.
   The Council may, by resolution, adopt, from time-to-time amend, or repeal an
emergency preparedness plan for the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.11)
§ 33.05 POLITICAL SUBDIVISION POWERS.
   When a condition exists that creates an immediate and serious risk to the
public peace, safety, health, or catastrophic loss to property, the City
Council shall have the right to enact ordinances for the public good. These
ordinances shall take effect immediately upon a majority of the Council vote
and shall remain in effect until such a time as the Council has had adequate
time to pursue the normal process of the passage of the ordinances.
(Ord. 45, Second Series, passed 8- -2001)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER
      
52.   SEWERAGE SERVICE
      
53.   STREET LIGHTING UTILITY
      
54.   FIRE UTILITY
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Fixing rates and charges for municipal utilities
   
50.03   Contractual contents
   
50.04   Rules and regulations relating to municipal utilities
   
50.05   Connection or tapping prohibited; delinquent assessments or charges
   
50.06   Common interest communities; connection fees
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPANY, GRANTEE and FRANCHISEE. Any public utility system to which a
franchise has been granted by the city.
   CONSUMER and CUSTOMER. Any user of a utility and includes the property
served and owner or owners of the property.
   JWS. The Jordan Water System.
   MUNICIPAL UTILITY. Any city-owned utility system, including, but not by way
of limitation, water, sewerage, street lighting and storm sewer service.
   SERVICE. Providing a particular utility to a customer or consumer.
   UTILITY. All utility services, whether public city-owned facilities or
furnished by public utility companies.
(Prior Code, § 3.01)
§ 50.02 FIXING RATES AND CHARGES FOR MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   All rates and charges for municipal utilities, including, but not by way of
limitation, rates for service, permit fees, deposit, connection and meter
testing fees, disconnection fees, reconnection fees including penalties for
non-payment if any, shall be fixed, determined and amended by the Council and
adopted by ordinance. The ordinance, containing the effective date thereof,
shall be kept on file and open to inspection in the office of the City
Administrator and shall be uniformly enforced. For the purpose of fixing the
rates and charges, the Council may categorize and classify under the various
types of service, provided, that such categorization and classification shall
be included in the ordinance authorized by this section. Fees for connection
shall be paid at the time of making application.
(Prior Code, § 3.02)
§ 50.03 CONTRACTUAL CONTENTS.
   Provisions of this chapter relating to municipal utilities shall constitute
a contract between the city and all consumers of municipal utility services,
and every such consumer shall be deemed to assent to the same.
(Prior Code, § 3.03)
§ 50.04 RULES AND REGULATIONS RELATING TO MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   (A)   Billing, payment and delinquency. Water, sanitary sewer and storm
water municipal utilities shall be billed bi-monthly and a utilities statement
or statements shall be mailed to each consumer. All utilities charges shall be
delinquent if they are unpaid within 30 days after the date of the bill.
Payments received by mail postmarked on or before the thirtieth day shall be
deemed paid within the period. A penalty as set by ordinance of the Council
shall be added to, and become part of, all delinquent utility bills. If service
is suspended due to delinquency it shall not be restored at that location until
a turn on charge has been paid for each utility turn on in addition to amounts
owed for service and penalties. In addition to a turn on charge for a shut-off
occurring during regular working hours, an additional amount shall be charged
for a shut-off occurring after hours and on weekends. No shut offs will be made
during the months of November through March. Delinquent bills will be carried
forward and if not paid by March, may cause the utility to be shut off.
   (B)   Application, connection and sale of service. Application for municipal
utility services shall be made upon forms supplied by the city, and strictly in
accordance therewith. No connection shall be made until consent has been
received from the city to make the same. All municipal utilities shall be sold
and delivered to consumers under the then applicable rate applied to the amount
of such utilities taken as metered or ascertained in connection with such
rates.
   (C)   Discontinuance of service. All municipal utilities may be shut off or
discontinued upon a finding by the City Council that:
      (1)   The owner or occupant of the premises served, or any person working
on any connection with the municipal utility systems, has violated any
requirement of the City Code relating to the municipal utility systems;
      (2)   There is fraud or misrepresentation by the owner or occupant in
connection with any application for service or delivery or charges therefor;
      (3)   If a property becomes uninhabitable, the city shall discontinue
utility services until the property becomes inhabitable. The city will continue
billing the parcel for sewer and water availability charges as long as the
principal structure remains on the property, and will bill storm water and
light utility fees regardless of the condition of the principal structure.
   (D)   Disconnection for late payment. 
      (1)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The city's form for application for
utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address,
room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of billing, clearly
visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill; and
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within 10 days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall
have a right to a hearing before the City Council at which time he may be
represented in person and by counsel or any other person of his choosing and
may present orally or in writing his complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in an amount set by City Council.
   (E)   Ownership of municipal utilities. The city shall be the sole owner of
all municipal utilities, plants, lines, mains, extensions and appurtenances
thereto. A private property owner shall be responsible for water and sewer
lines from the main to the structure. Private facilities and appurtenances
constructed on private property are not included in municipal ownership.
   (F)   Right of entry. By applying for, or receiving, a municipal utility
service, a customer irrevocably consents and agrees that any city employee
acting within the course and scope of his or her employment may enter into and
upon the private property of the customer, including dwellings and other
buildings, at all reasonable times under the circumstances, in or upon which
private property a municipal utility, or connection therewith, is installed,
for the purpose of inspecting, repairing, reading meters, connecting or
disconnecting the municipal utility service.
   (G)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person to willfully or carelessly break,
injure, mar, deface, disturb, or in any way interfere with any buildings,
attachments, machinery, apparatus, equipment, fixture, or appurtenance of any
municipal utility or municipal utility system, or commit any act tending to
obstruct or impair the use of any municipal utility.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person to make any connection with, opening
into, use, or alter in any way any municipal utility system without first
having applied for and received a permit from the city.
      (3)   It is unlawful for any person to turn on or connect a utility when
the same has been turned off or disconnected by the city for non-payment of a
bill, or for any other reason, without first having obtained a permit to do so
from the city.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any person to “jumper” or by any means or device
fully or partially circumvent a municipal utility meter, or to knowingly use or
consume unmetered utilities or use the services of any utility system, the use
of which the proper billing authorities have no knowledge.
   (H)   Municipal utility services and charges a lien on real property.
      (1)   Payment for all municipal utility (as that term is defined in City
Code, § 50.01) service and charges shall be the primary responsibility of the
fee owner of the premises served, including each unit belonging to a common
interest community, and shall be billed to the fee owner unless otherwise
contracted for and authorized in writing by the fee owner and any other person
(such as tenant, contract purchaser, manager and the like), as agent for the
fee owner, and consented to by the City of Jordan, Minnesota. The fee owner of
a rental building or property containing 3 or more units may purchase and
install, at owner’s expense, individual water meters and radio reading devices
for each unit and provide bills to each individual unit. The City of Jordan
will read one master meter in the building or property and will send one bill
to the fee owner for the entire building or property. The City of Jordan will
not bill individual tenants. If the utility service and charges are for a
single-metered multi-unit rental residential building, the owner of said
building shall be the customer of record and this responsibility shall not be
waived by contract or otherwise. The city may collect the same in a civil
action or, in the alternative and at the option of the city, as otherwise
provided in this section.
      (2)   All utility accounts not paid within 30 days of being billed shall
be subject to a late fee established by the City Council. If the bill remains
unpaid 45 days after being billed, the Council may, by resolution, authorize
such delinquent utility accounts be certified to the County Auditor and become
a lien on the premises served. The certification shall specify the delinquent
amount, the description of the premises served, and the name of the owner of
the premises. The amount so certified shall be a tax lien against such premises
in the same manner as other taxes, and collected by the County Treasurer, and
paid to the city along with other taxes.
      (3)   All partial payments of utility bills shall be credited to late
charges first, then to the most current portions of the bill, in the following
manner: first to sales tax, then to sewer and lastly water and finally to the
most delinquent portions of the bill in the same manner as described above.
   (I)   Municipal utility service outside the city. Premises located outside
the city shall not be connected to or served by any municipal utility. Persons
needing municipal utility service whose property is located outside the
corporate limits must initiate and complete annexation proceedings prior to
being provided with the service or services.
(Prior Code, § 3.04) (Am. Ord. 22, Second Series, passed 8-2-1999; Am. Ord. 81,
Second Series, passed 9- -2004; Am. Ord. 2010-07, passed 10-18-2010) Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.05 CONNECTION OR TAPPING PROHIBITED; DELINQUENT ASSESSMENTS OR CHARGES.
   No permit shall be granted to tap or connect with sewer or water mains when
any assessment or connection charge or capital charge for the sewer or water
main against the property to be connected remains unpaid or is in default or
delinquent. If the assessment or connection charges or capital charges are
payable in installments, no permit shall be granted unless all installments
then due and payable have been paid. The City Council, in its sole discretion,
may exempt from requirements of this section, property that is zoned
industrial, is put to an industrial use and the utilities were provided through
an M.S. Chapter 429 project.
(Prior Code, § 3.05) (Am. Ord. 22, Second Series, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 50.06 COMMON INTEREST COMMUNITIES; CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   In the case of a common interest community (“CIC”), created pursuant
to M.S. Chapter 515B, the city shall provide 1 municipal utility line, as
defined herein, for each separate building and the line shall be split to each
unit and the common elements. At the time of final platting, the developer
shall pay a connection fee and a capital fee for the common elements and a
connection fee and capital fees for each unit, which is platted. The
definitions contained within M.S. Chapter 515B are expressly adopted and
incorporated herein.
   (B)   After final platting, if a unit is subdivided, or if additional real
estate is added to the CIC, the owner of each new unit shall be responsible for
additional connection fees and capital fees.
   (C)   The provisions of this section must be contained within the
declaration.
(Ord. 89, Second Series, passed 8-15-2005)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person whose actions are not in compliance with this title shall be
subject to punishment pursuant to §
10.99 herein unless otherwise stated for a specific provision.
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
   
51.01   Deficiency of water and shutting off water
   
51.02   Repair of leaks
   
51.03   Increasing size of water service
   
51.04   Service pipes
   
51.05   Private water supplies
   
51.06   Water conservation
   
51.07   Private fire hose connections
   
51.08   Opening hydrants
   
51.09   Unmetered service
   
51.10   Reading device
   
51.11   Water meters
   
51.12   Connection to the city water supply
   
51.13   Water connections may be prohibited
   
51.14   General
   
51.15   Definitions
   
51.16   Funds from sewer service charges
   
51.17   Water service cost categories
   
51.18   Capital charges for water facility users
   
51.19   Connection charge
   
51.20   Unlawful acts
§ 51.01 DEFICIENCY OF WATER AND SHUTTING OFF WATER.
   The city is not liable for any deficiency or failure in the supply of water
to customers for whatever cause. In case of fire, or fire alarm, water may be
shut off to insure a supply for fire fighting. Water may be shut off at any
time and kept off so long as may be necessary while making repairs or
construction of water facilities or water conservation.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.02 REPAIR OF LEAKS.
   It is the responsibility of the consumer or owner to maintain the water
service from the main into the other building. If the consumer or owner fails
to repair any leak occurring in the water service to the building within 24
hours after the city has provided oral or written notice of the leak, the city
may shut off the water until a reconnection charge has been paid and the water
service has been repaired. If the amount of lost water will forseeably be
significant, the city may immediately, without notice, turn off the water. The
city shall provide the owner of the affected premises notice of the leak and
water turnoff as soon as practicable.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.03 INCREASING SIZE OF WATER SERVICE.
   Any person seeking an increased size water service shall first obtain a
permit from the city and the tap-in charge shall be the same as for a new
service.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.04 SERVICE PIPES.
   Every service pipe must be laid in such manner as to prevent rupture by
settlement. The service pipe shall be placed not less than 7 feet below the
surface in all cases so arranged as to prevent rupture and stoppage by
freezing. Frozen service pipes between the main and the building shall be the
responsibility of the owner. Service pipes must extend from the curb stops to
the inside of the building; or if not taken into a building then to the hydrant
or other fixtures which they are intended to supply. A valve, the same size as
the service pipe, shall be placed close to the inside wall of the building,
ahead of the meter and well protected from freezing. Joints on copper tubing
shall be flared or compression-fitted, and kept to a minimum. Not more than 1
joint shall be used for a service up to 70 feet in length. All joints shall be
left uncovered until inspected. Minimum size connection with the water mains
shall be 1 inch in diameter.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.05 PRIVATE WATER SUPPLIES.
    No water pipe of the city water system shall be connected with any pump,
well, pipe, tank or any device that is connected with any other water supply.
If other such water sources are discovered, the city shall notify the owner or
occupant to disconnect the same within 12 hours. If the property owner does not
comply, the city shall turn off the water. Before any new connections to the
city system are permitted, the city shall determine that no cross-connections
will exist when the new connection is made.
(Prior Code, § 3.20) (Am. Ord. 2008-004, passed 11-3-2008)
§ 51.06 WATER CONSERVATION.
   (A)   The City Council finds that water conservation is critical to the
city’s welfare and to the efficient and economical provision of safe water.
When necessary and in its sole discretion, the city shall enforce restrictions
on the use of water outside of any residence or business, including use of
private water supplies to the extent allowed by state law, other than on
permitted days and hours.
   (B)   Normal use of outside water will be at level 1. At the discretion of
the Public Works Director, the restrictions may be raised to level 2 or level 3
dependent upon water availability. A notice containing the provisions of the
upgraded level shall be delivered to each property within the city limits and
posted in the lobby at city hall. The notice shall include the dates and times
that the upgraded level shall commence.
      (1)   Level 1.
         (a)   Watering lawns. Watering lawns is not permitted between the
hours of 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. year round. In addition, watering lawns will
only be permitted on an odd/even basis. A total lawn watering ban shall be in
effect for properties on the odd side of the street on even numbered days of
the month, and for properties on the even side of the street on odd days of the
month.
         (b)   Watering shrubs, flowers and new lawns. Watering shrubs, flowers
and plants and also watering new sod or seed that has been planted within the
previous 30 days are unrestricted activities. Over-seeding an established lawn
is not considered new seed. The property owner must provide evidence of the
date the new sod or seed was planted.
         (c)   Other outside water use. Reasonable recreational use of outside
water is permitted. Use of outside water for washing vehicles shall not occur
between 10:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Monday through Friday. The Fire Department is
exempt from these restrictions when used while performing their duties for the
city.
         (d)   Business use. A business which relies heavily upon use of
outside water and which use may conflict with these restrictions, may apply to
the Director of Public Works for a permit allowing increased usage. The permit
may include reasonable restrictions as necessary. Each permit determination
shall be subject to Council approval.
      (2)   Level 2. The use of outside water is permitted as listed above,
except the permitted days and hours of use shall be set by the Director of
Public Works. No recreational use of outside water will be permitted. The
Director of Public Works may revise permits issued for businesses when Level 2
restrictions are imposed.
      (3)   Level 3. A total ban of the use of all outside water within the
city. The exceptions listed in Level 1 will be permitted. No recreational use
of outside water will be permitted. The Director of Public Works may revise
permits issued for businesses when Level 3 restrictions are imposed.
   (C)   Any member of the City of Jordan staff may be appointed by the Public
Works Director or Chief of Police to enforce this section. City personnel not
in uniform shall, upon request, show identification as a City of Jordan
employee. The civil administrative penalty for violation of this section will
be set by the City Council in the fee schedule, and reviewed on a yearly basis.
This penalty may be added to the property owner’s city water bill.
(Prior Code, § 3.20) (Am. Ord. 33, Second Series, passed 7-17-2000; Am. Ord.
44, Second Series, passed 7-24-2001; Am. Ord. 62, Second Series, passed --; Am.
Ord. 2007-010, passed 6-18-2007; Am. Ord. 2008-004, passed 11-3-2008)
§ 51.07 PRIVATE FIRE HOSE CONNECTIONS.
   Owners of structures with self-contained fire protection systems may apply
for and obtain permission to connect the street mains with hydrants, large
pipes, and hose couplings. They may only do this for use in case of fire, at
their own installation expense and at such rates as the Council may adopt by
resolution as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.08 OPENING HYDRANTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, other than members of the Fire
Department or other person duly authorized by the city, in pursuance of lawful
purpose, to open any fire hydrant or attempt to draw water from the same or in
any manner interfere therewith.
   (B)   It is also unlawful for any person to deliver or cause to be delivered
to any unauthorized person any hydrant key or wrench, except for the purposes
strictly pertaining to their lawful use.
(Prior Code, § 3.20) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 51.09 UNMETERED SERVICE.
   Unmetered service may be provided for construction, and any other purpose.
The service shall be at a duly adopted rate.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.10 READING DEVICE.
   Each consumer served by the city water system shall have a meter with a
reading device which shall be readable from the outside of the structure in a
readily accessible location.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.11 WATER METERS.
   (A)   (1)   All water meters shall be purchased from the city and shall be
maintained by the city. The city shall determine the appropriate size of the
water meter for each connection. Water meters shall be installed pursuant to
city specifications. Costs for water meters in new construction will be billed
to the property owner as part of the building permit application. Installation
of new meters shall be the responsibility of the property owner. All repairs to
water meters not resulting from normal usage shall be the responsibility of the
property owner.
      (2)   All repairs due to normal usage and replacement of non-functioning
meters shall be the city’s responsibility.
   (B)   After installation of the water meter the city shall do testing of the
meter, from time to time, to determine accuracy. If a property owner requests a
new meter, the property owner shall pay for the new meter and city personnel
time for installation. If testing of a meter indicates that it registers in
excess of 10% error, the testing fee shall be reimbursed and the charge to the
consumer for the billing period within which the test is made, shall be
adjusted.
(Prior Code, § 3.20)
§ 51.12 CONNECTION TO THE CITY WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions contained in Minn. Rules part 4715.0100 shall apply unless the
context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device or means to prevent backflow into the
potable water system.
      (2)   BACKFLOW PREVENTER (REDUCED PRESSURE ZONE TYPE). An assembly of
differential valves and check valves including an automatically opened spillage
port to the atmosphere.
      (3)   CROSS CONNECTION. Any connection or arrangement, physical or
otherwise, between a potable water supply system and any plumbing fixture, or
tank, receptacle, equipment, or device through which it may be possible for
nonpotable, used, unclean, polluted, or contaminated water or other substance
to enter any part of such potable water system under any condition.
   (B)   All piping, connections and appurtenances shall be installed and
performed strictly in accordance with the Minnesota Plumbing Code and only
plumbers or authorized employees of the city shall be permitted to do any work
on service pipes or fixtures connected with the water system. Plumbers
requesting connection shall give notice at least 16 business hours prior to
attempting connection. A consumer’s failure to install or maintain the
connection facilities in accordance herewith, or failure to schedule or allow
required inspections shall warrant termination of water service to that
consumer.
   (C)   (1)   A property owner is required to connect to the municipal water
system within 6 months after the city has sent written notice via certified
mail to the owner that municipal water lines have been installed and are ready
for that property’s connection and use. See Minn. Rules 4715.0310. The city
shall determine if municipal water lines are available by considering various
factors including the lines’ distance from the property, type of soil, land
use, water demand and environmental concerns.
      (2)   If the owner fails to connect to the municipal water system within
the above 6-month time frame, the city may order the connection and shall
assess the cost thereof against the benefitted property. This assessment shall
be a lien against the property and bear interest at the rate identified by the
City Council for improvements. The lien shall be certified to the Scott County
Auditor and shall be remitted to the city in the same manner as assessments for
local improvements.
      (3)   The rights of the city under this section shall be in addition to
any other remedial or enforcement actions available to the city including
obtaining an injunction ordering the connection.
   (D)   Whenever any premises are connected to the city water system, there
shall be maintained a complete physical separation between the city water
supply system and the private water supply system so that it is impossible to
intentionally or unintentionally allow any water produced by a private system
to be introduced in the supply line from the city system.
   (E)   (1)   The purpose of a cross-connection control program is to protect
the health of water customers and the potability of the municipal water supply.
See Minn. Rules part 4720.0025.
      (2)   Cross-connections between the Jordan municipal water system and
other water systems or any equipment which contains water or other substances
of unknown or questionable safety are prohibited, except when and where, as
approved by the city, suitable backflow prevention devices are installed,
tested, and maintained to ensure proper operation on a continuing basis. See
Minn. Rules part 4715.1920.
      (3)   The owner of real property within or upon which a private well is
located shall permit annual inspection of the public and private systems to
guarantee there is no cross-connection. The city’s inspector may require
reasonable plumbing changes to ensure there will be no cross-connection. The
City Inspector shall provide 48 hours’ notice of the inspection, which shall
occur between 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m.
      (4)   If a backflow prevention device and cross-connection is permitted
by the city, it is to be owned, tested, and maintained by the customer/owner of
the premises being served.
      (5)   Installation, maintenance and testing of backflow preventers shall
be according to the State of Minnesota Plumbing Code. It is required that
reduced pressure zone backflow preventers be tested annually and overhauled at
intervals not to exceed five years. Testing must be performed by a qualified
backflow tester. A licensed plumber qualified in backflow testing shall perform
all internal maintenance to the device. Test results shall be furnished to the
city.
   (F)   Failure to comply with the provisions of this section shall be cause
to discontinue water service in accordance with §50.04 above.
(Prior Code, §3.20) (Am. Ord. 10, Second Series, passed 11-16-1998; Am. Ord.
2008-004, passed 11-3-2008)
§ 51.13 WATER CONNECTIONS MAY BE PROHIBITED.
   Water connections may be prohibited or special precautions taken between
November 1 and April 1, inclusive, where, in the opinion of the city, the
connection may require undue additional time and expense. No water will be
turned on until all charges, deposits and fees are paid in full, including any
unpaid usage charges for the premises.
§ 51.14 GENERAL.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to create a system to recover from "users"
of the city water facilities, on an equitable basis, the share of the city
facilities' costs attributable to the users, and to provide funds for the
operation and maintenance, debt service, and replacement of the wastewater
treatment facility. Rates, charges and billing shall be consistent with the
rules and regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.31)
§ 51.15DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAPITAL CHARGE. A per unit charge based upon use of the property as shown in
§
52.25 of this code to pay a lot's portion of capital costs which is to be paid
at the time the principal structure is built or connects to city water.
   CAPITAL COSTS. All reasonable and necessary costs and expenses incurred by
the city in planning, designing, financing, and constructing disposal system
facilities, including but not limited to costs and expenses for obtaining
necessary permits, licenses, approvals and grants for design and construction
costs; fees for legal and consulting services; or the acquisition of such
facilities.
   CONNECTION CHARGE. The charge for connecting a water line to the city water
system paid at the time the principal structure is built or connects to city
water.
   DEBT SERVICE. The principal and interest necessary to pay bonded
indebtedness.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The charge related to the principal and interest
necessary to pay bonded indebtedness of facilities owned or operated by the
city. The debt service charge includes a "debt service connection charge" and a
"debt service user charge".
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS (O&M COSTS). The expenses related to the
costs of the operation, maintenance, replacement and administration of the city
facilities.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Costs related to the expenditures for obtaining and
installing equipment, accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary to
maintain the capacity and performance during the useful life of the city
facilities for which such facilities were designed and constructed. The term
"Operation and Maintenance" includes REPLACEMENT.
   USER. Any person, or corporation, or other entity, whether municipal or
otherwise, discharging sewage into the city disposal system facilities.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of city facilities for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement of the facilities.
   WATER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all the charges including the user
charge, debt service charges and other water-related charges that are billed
periodically to users of the city facilities.
   WATER SYSTEM. Pipeliners or conduits, pumping stations, force mains, and all
other devices and appliances appurtenant thereto, used for collecting or
conducting water.
§ 51.16 FUNDS FROM SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The funds received from the collection of the charges authorized by this
section shall be deposited as collected in the city's Water Fund and shall be
used for the operation, maintenance, debt service, replacement, and
improvements of the city water system. The portion of any such funds which is
limited to a particular use by applicable state or federal rules or
regulations, shall be used in compliance with the restrictions.
§ 51.17 WATER SERVICE COST CATEGORIES.
   The cost to be recovered pursuant to this chapter and the unit cost to be
fixed by the Council shall be determined and allocated in each of the following
categories:
   (A)   "Category A" - Debt Service for Water Facilities. The amount of the
annual interest and principal cost necessary to retire the bond issued to pay
for the local share of the project cost. The amounts collected to retire this
bond issue will be designated in a separate account, "Debt Services Costs".
   (B)   "Category B" - Operation and Maintenance - City Water System. The
annual cost of operating and maintaining the city water system facilities,
including an amount for replacement costs, which shall be segregated in a
separate fund designated "Operation and Maintenance Costs" and "Replacement
Costs" respectively.
§ 51.18    CAPITAL CHARGES FOR WATER FACILITY USERS.
   The Category A cost, Debt Service for Water Facilities, shall be recovered
through two types of charges, a debt service connection charge assessed against
new building units; and a debt service charge. These two types of water
facility charges shall be determined in the same manner as the waste water
treatment facility costs described in §
52.25 of this Code.
§ 51.19 CONNECTION CHARGE.
   A one-time connection charge, as set by City Council, is required for each
water line on a parcel.
§ 51.20 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   The city shall serve a written notice of violation upon any person for
whom the city has evidence that person has violated any provision of this
chapter. The written notice shall state the nature of the violation and provide
a reasonable time limit for satisfactory correction of the violation.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to continue any violation beyond the
time provided in the written notice described in §
51.20(A). Each day in which any such violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. Any person violating any of the provisions of this section
shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage occasioned by
the city by reason of the violation.
(Prior Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
50.99
CHAPTER 52: SEWERAGE SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Use of public sanitary sewers
   
52.03   Private sewage disposal
   
52.04   Building sewers and connections
   
52.05   Main and lateral sewer construction
   
52.06   Protection from damage
   
52.07   Authority of inspectors
   
52.08   Unlawful acts
   
52.09   Clean water discharge into sanitary sewer mains and laterals
Wastewater Facilities and User Charges
   
52.20   Wastewater disposal system facilities
   
52.21   Definitions
   
52.22   General
   
52.23   Funds from sewer service charges
   
52.24   Reserved
   
52.25   Charges for wastewater treatment facility users
   
52.26   Capital connection charge
Storm Water Utility Fee
   
52.40   Definitions
   
52.41   Right to establish utility
   
52.42   Residential equivalent factor values
   
52.43   Storm water utility fees
   
52.44   Credits
   
52.45   Exemptions
   
52.46   Payment of fee
   
52.47   Recalculation of fee
   
52.48   Storm water area charge
   
Appendix I: Typical sump pump installation details
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biological oxidation of organic matter, expressed in milligrams per liter,
as determined in accordance with standard laboratory procedure as set out in
the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and
Wastewater.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lower horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
5 feet (1.5 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal, also called house connection.
   COD (denoting CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND).  The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the chemical oxidation of organic matter, expressed in milligrams per liter, as
determined in accordance with standard laboratory procedure as set out in the
latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes resulting from the domestic and commercial
preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage or
sale of meat, fish, fowl, fruit, vegetables, or condemned food.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The solid, liquid or gaseous wastes resulting from any
industrial or manufacturing processes, trade or business, or from the
development, recovery or processing of natural resources.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT (NPDES PERMIT). The
system for issuing, conditioning and denying permits for the discharge of
pollutants from point sources into the navigable waters, the contiguous zone,
and the oceans by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency
pursuant to §§ 402 and 405 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendment
1972.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. Wastes with a Biological Oxygen Demand
Concentration not to exceed 268 milligrams per liter and a Total Suspended
Solids Concentration not to exceed 268 milligrams per liter.
   OTHER WASTES. Garbage, municipal refuse, decayed wood, sawdust, shavings,
bark, lime, sand, ashes, oil tar, chemicals, offal and other substances except
sewage and industrial wastes.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions in
grams per liter of solution.
   PROCESS WATER. Any water used in the manufacturing, preparation or
production of goods, materials or food. PROCESS WATER is an industrial waste.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Any sewer owned or operated by a unit or agency of government.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm surface, and
ground water are not admitted.
   SEWAGE or WASTEWATER. The water-carried waste products from residences,
public buildings, institutions, industrial establishments or other buildings
including the excrementitious or other discharge from the bodies of human
beings or animals, together with the ground water infiltration and storm and
surface water as may be present.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage, industrial waste or other
waste liquids.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Pipe lines or conduits, pumping stations, force mains, and all
other devices and appliances appurtenant thereto, used for collecting or
conducting sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes to a point of ultimate
disposal.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water, wastewater or industrial waste which in
concentration of any given constituent or in quantity of flow exceeds for any
period of duration longer than 15 minutes more than 5 times the average 24-hour
concentration of flows during the normal operation.
   STORM SEWER (sometimes termed STORM DRAIN). A sewer which carries storm and
surface water and drainage but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling or process water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which are removable by
laboratory filtering, in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods
of the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Clean water uncontaminated by industrial wastes, other
wastes, or any substance which renders such water unclean or noxious, or impure
so as to be actually or potentially harmful or detrimental or injurious to
public health, safety or welfare, to domestic, commercial, industrial or
recreational use, or to livestock, wild animals, birds, fish, or other aquatic
life.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES. The structures, equipment and processes required to
collect, carry away, and treat domestic and industrial wastes and dispose of
the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS or TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and
structures for treatment of wastewater, industrial waste, and sludge. Sometimes
used as synonymous for WASTE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT or
WATER POLLUTION CONTROL PLANT or SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.
(Prior Code, § 3.30)
§ 52.02 USE OF PUBLIC SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city or
in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any sewage or other polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this section and the city’s NPDES permit.
   (B)   Except as hereinafter provided, it is unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (C)   The owner of any building or property within the city from which
wastewater is discharged, shall be required to connect to a public sewer at his
or her expense, when the public sewer becomes available. the city shall
determine if public utility lines are available by considering various factors
including the lines’ distance from the property, type of soil, land use, water
demand and environmental concerns. All future buildings constructed on property
adjacent to the public sewer shall be required to immediately connect to the
public sewer. If a sewer connection is not made pursuant to this section, the
city shall send the affected property owner a written notice via certified mail
providing the owner 30 days from the date of the notice to correct the
connection.
   (D)   Should the owner fail to make connection to the public sewer in
compliance with the 30-day notice, the city may make the connection and shall
assess the connection cost as a lien against the benefitted property. This
assessment shall bear interest at the rate identified by the City Council for
improvements, shall be certified to the Scott County Auditor and shall be
collected and remitted to the city in the same manner as assessments for local
improvements. The rights of the city under this section shall be in addition to
any other remedial or enforcement actions available to the city, including
obtaining an injunction ordering the connection.
   (E)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged
into a sanitary sewer, directly or indirectly any storm water, surface water,
ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, waste from on-site disposal
systems, unpolluted cooling or process water.
   (F)   Storm water and all other unpolluted water shall be discharged to a
storm sewer, except that unpolluted cooling or process water shall only be so
discharged upon approval by the city or other local unit of government.
   (G)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged,
directly or indirectly, any of the following described substances to any public
sewer:
      (1)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas;
      (2)   Any water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids
or gases in sufficient quantity, either singly or by interaction with other
wastes, to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process, constitute a
hazard to humans or animals, create a public nuisance, or create any hazard in
the wastewater treatment works;
      (3)   Any water or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or having any other
corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to structures, equipment
and personnel of the wastewater treatment works;
      (4)   Solid or viscous substances, either whole or ground, in quantities
or of such size capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, or other
interference with the proper continuation of the wastewater facilities,
including, but not limited to ashes, cinders, disposable diapers, glass
grinding or polishing wastes, stone cuttings or polishing wastes, sand, mud,
straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, tar, plastics, wood, unground
garbage, whole blood, paunch manure, hair and fleshings, entrails and sanitary
napkins, paper dishes, cups, milk containers, and other paper products;
      (5)   Noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or substances which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for their maintenance and repair; and
      (6)   Prohibited wastes shall be regulated in accordance with the city’s
NPDES permit, §§ 307(a) and 307(b) of the Clean Water Act and all other
applicable state and federal regulations.
   (H)   It is unlawful for any person to discharge or cause to be discharged,
directly or indirectly, the following described substances to any public sewer
unless in the opinion of the city such discharge will not harm the wastewater
facilities, nor cause obstruction to the flow in sewers, nor otherwise endanger
life, limb or public property, nor constitute a nuisance. In forming its
opinion as to the acceptability of these wastes, the city may give
consideration to such factors as the quantities of the subject wastes in
relation to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials or construction of
the sewers, nature of the sewage treatment process, capacity of the sewage
treatment plant, degree of treatability of wastes in the sewage treatment
plant, the city’s NPDES permit, and other pertinent factors. The city may make
such determinations either on a general basis or as to discharges from
individual users or specific discharges, and may prohibit certain discharges
from individual users because of unusual concentrations or combinations which
may occur. The substances prohibited are:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Any water or waste containing fats, wax, grease, or oils, whether
emulsified or not, in excess of 100 mg/l or containing substances which may
solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32° and 150°F (0° and 65°C);
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been ground or comminuted to such a degree
that all particles will be carried freely in suspension under flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers, with no particles greater than ½ inch in
any dimension;
      (4)   Any water or wastes containing strong acid, iron pickling wastes,
or concentrated plating solutions, whether neutralized or not;
      (5)   Any water or wastes containing phenols or other taste or odor
producing substances which constitute a nuisance or hazard to the structures,
equipment or personnel of the sewage works, or which interfere with the
treatment required to meet the requirements of the state and federal government
and any other public agency with proper authority to regulate the discharge
from the sewage treatment plan;
      (6)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentration
that they are in non-compliance with regulations issued by the appropriate
authority having control over their use or which have caused or may cause
damage or hazards to the treatment works or personnel operating it;
      (7)   Any water or wastes having a pH in excess of 9.5;
      (8)   Materials which exert or cause:
         (a)   Unusual concentration of suspended solids (such as, but not
limited to, Fullers earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or of dissolved
solids (such as, but not limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate);
         (b)   Excessive discoloration (such as, but not limited to, dye wastes
and vegetable tanning solutions);
         (c)   Unusual BOD, chemical oxygen demand, or chlorine requirements in
such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the wastewater treatment
works;
         (d)   Unusual volume of flow or concentration of wastes constituting a
slug; and
         (e)   Water or water containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment only to such degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of the NPDES permit or requirements of
other governmental agencies having jurisdiction over discharge from the sewage
treatment plant.
   (I)   If any water or wastes are discharged, or are proposed to be
discharged directly or indirectly to the public sewers, which water or wastes
do not meet the standards set out in or promulgated under this section which in
the judgment of the city may have a deleterious effect upon the treatment
works, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which otherwise create a
hazard to life or constitute a public nuisance, the city may take any or all of
the following steps:
      (1)   Refuse to accept the discharges;
      (2)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
      (3)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for the discharge
to the public sewers; or
      (4)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating
the wastes. The design and installation of the plant and equipment for pre-
treatment or equalization of waste flows shall be subject to the review and
approval of the city and subject to the requirements of § 307(b) of the Clean
Water Act and all applicable codes, City Code provisions, and laws. No user
shall increase the use of process water or, in any manner attempt to dilute a
discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve
compliance with the limitations contained in the National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards or any state requirement.
   (J)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease, or any
flammable wastes, sand or other harmful ingredients. All interceptors require
the city’s approval as to type and capacity and shall be located as to be
readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. The interceptors
shall not be required for private living quarters or dwelling units.
   (K)   Preliminary treatment and flow equalizing facilities or interceptors
shall be effectively operated and maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective condition by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be available
for inspection by the city at all reasonable times.
   (L)   When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
structure, together with such necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes. Required structure and equipment shall be constructed at the owner’s
expense in accordance with plans approved by the city and shall be maintained
by the owner so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (M)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of water
and wastes to which reference is made in this section shall be determined in
accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of
Water and Wastewater, and shall be determined at the control structure
provided, or upon suitable samples taken at the control structure. In the event
that no special structure has been required, the control structure shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer from the
point at which the building sewer is connected. Sampling shall be carried out
by customarily accepted methods to reflect the effect of constituents upon the
sewerage works and to determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and
property. (The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour
composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether a grab sample
or samples should be taken. Normally, but not always, BOD and suspended solids
analyses will be obtained from 24-hour composite of all outfalls whereas pHs
and DO’s will be determined from periodic grab samples).
   (N)   (1)   The city may conduct such tests as are necessary to enforce this
section, and employees of the city may enter upon any property for the purpose
of taking samples, obtaining information or conducting surveys or
investigations relating to such enforcement. Entry shall be made during
operating hours unless circumstances require otherwise. In all cases where
tests are conducted by the city for the purpose of checking to determine if a
previously found violation of this section has been corrected, the cost of the
tests shall be charged to the user and added to the user’s sewer charge. In
those cases where the city determines that the nature of volume of a particular
user's sewage requires more frequent than normal testing, the city may charge
the user for the test, after giving the user 10 days’ written notice of its
intention to do so, mailed via certified mail, and the cost thereof shall be
added to the user's sewer charge.
      (2)   In any case where industrial wastes are discharged to a public
sewer, the city may require the user to test the discharge on a regular basis
at the user’s expense and to report the test results to the city within a
reasonable time. All such tests shall be as ordered by the city and shall be
conducted by qualified personnel and in accordance with the standards set forth
herein.
   (O)   Accidental discharges of prohibited waste into the sewage works,
directly or through another disposal system, or to any place from which such
waste may enter the treatment works, shall be reported to the city by the
persons responsible for the discharge, or by the owner or occupant of the
premises where the discharge occurred, immediately upon learning of the
discharge.
   (P)   New connections to the sanitary sewer system shall be prohibited
unless sufficient capacity is available in all downstream facilities, including
capacity for flow, BOD, and suspended solids.
   (Q)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the city for treatment, subject to payment therefor, by the
industrial concern, in accordance with applicable City Code provisions and any
supplemental agreement with the city, and providing that National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards and the city’s NPDES permit limitations are not
violated.
(Prior Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.03 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available hereunder,
the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal system
complying with the rules and regulations of the City, and complying with the
Minnesota Pollution Control Agency Chapter 7080 Rules for Individual Sewage
Treatment Systems.
(Ord. 19-93, passed 5-28-1993)
   (B)   Before commencement of construction of a private sewage disposal
system, the owner shall first obtain a written permit signed by the City
Administrator or designee. The application for the permit shall be made by the
city.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the city.
The city shall be allowed to inspect the work at any stage of construction and,
in any event, the applicant for the permit shall notify the city when the work
is ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
The inspection shall be made within 48 hours of the receipt of notice by the
city.
   (D)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (E)   No statement contained herein shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the city.
   (F)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the
public sewer within 6 months, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar
private sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material, except that in the case where gravity sewer service is not available,
the property may be served by a private sewage disposal system. The city shall
determine the availability of the public sewer by considering various factors
including the line’s distance from the property, type of soil, land use, water
demand and environmental concerns.
(Prior Code, § 3.30)
§ 52.04 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to engage in the work or business of
installing private sewer service lines and appurtenances for others without a
license therefor from the State of Minnesota.
   (B)   All costs and expense incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify and
hold the city harmless from any loss or damage to the public sewer that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (C)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where 2 or more buildings are situated on 1 parcel such that
the parcel may not be subdivided; such a joint use private sewer may be
extended to the rear building or buildings and the whole considered as 1 joint
use private sewer. Special variances will be considered by the Council.
   (D)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
if, after examination and test by the city, they meet all requirements of this
section.
   (E)   Unused septic tanks, cesspools, leaching pits and similar devices and
structures shall be backfilled or made safe and unusable in a manner acceptable
to the city.
   (F)   The size, slope, alignment, materials of construction of a building
sewer, and the method to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing, and backfilling the trench, shall all conform to the requirements of
the building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations. In
the absence of code provisions or in amplification thereof, the materials and
procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of Water Pollution Control
(WPCF) Manual of Practice No. 9, and applicable American Society for Testing
Materials (ASTM) Standards shall apply.
   (G)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, the
building drain shall be provided with a lifting device by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
   (H)   It is unlawful for any person to make connections of roof downspouts,
exterior foundation drains, areaway drains or other source of surface runoff or
groundwater to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected
directly or indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
   (I)   The construction of the building sewer and its connection into the
public sewer shall conform to the requirements of the building and plumbing
code, the sewer specifications included herein or other applicable rules and
regulations and procedures set forth in appropriate specifications of the Water
Pollution Control Federation (WPCF) Manual Practice No. 9, and the American
Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM). All such construction shall be made
gastight and watertight. Any deviation from the prescribed procedures and
materials must be approved by the city before installation.
   (J)   The Public Works Director or the designee of the city shall be allowed
to inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the
applicant for the permit shall notify the city when the work is ready for final
inspection and no underground portions shall be covered before the final
inspection is completed. The connection shall be made under the supervision of
the city or its representative.
   (K)   All excavations for building sewer installations shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazards.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.05 MAIN AND LATERAL SEWER CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person, unless authorized, to uncover, make any
connections with or opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the city.
   (B)   No sanitary or storm sewers shall be constructed in the city (except
house or building service sewers) except by the city or by others in accordance
with plans and specifications approved by a professional engineer. No such
sewers shall be considered to be a part of the public sewer system unless
accepted by the city.
   (C)   The size, slope, alignment, material of construction, methods to be
used in excavation, placing of pipe, jointing, testing, backfilling, and other
work connected with the construction of sewers shall conform to the
requirements of the city.
   (D)   No sump pumps or tile lines around house perimeters can be allowed to
drain into the sanitary sewer.
(Prior Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.06 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   It is unlawful for any person to maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the wastewater treatment
facilities.
(Prior Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.07 AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   Duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposes of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with
the provisions of this section. Those employees shall have no authority to
inquire into any processes including metallurgical, chemical, oil, refining,
ceramic, paper, or other industries except as is necessary to determine the
kind and source of the discharge to the public sewer.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
herein, the authorized employees of the city shall observe all safety rules
applicable to the premises.
   (C)   Duly authorized employees of the city bearing proper credentials and
identification shall be permitted to enter portions of private properties upon
which the city holds an easement for the purposes including, but not limited
to, inspection, observation, and construction of public sewers.
(Prior Code, § 3.30)
§ 52.08 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   The city shall serve a written notice of violation upon any person for
whom the city has evidence that person has violated any provision of this
chapter. The written notice shall state the nature of the violation and provide
a reasonable time limit for satisfactory correction of the violation.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to continue any violation beyond the
time provided in the written notice described in §
52.08(A). Each day in which any such violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 3.30) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 52.09 CLEAN WATER DISCHARGE INTO SANITARY SEWER MAINS AND LATERALS.
   (A)   Clean water discharge. Storm water, ground water or surface water,
roof drains, sump pumps, foundation tiles, swimming pools or unpolluted water
from an industrial process or other natural precipitation cannot be discharged
into municipal sanitary sewer mains and laterals. Discharge of clean water into
sanitary sewer mains and laterals increases the wastewater treatment costs and
quantities.
   (B)   Clean water discharge permanent installation. A permanent installation
of a system to dispose of clean water must be installed if the clean water is
generated through items identified in division (A) above. This permanent system
shall be one that provides for year-round discharge capability to the outside
of the dwelling, building or structure or, is connected directly to the city's
storm water management system or discharges directly to the curb and gutter in
the street. The permanent system shall consist of a rigid discharge line
without valving or quick connections for altering the path of discharge. If
connected directly to a city storm water management system, it shall include a
check valve and air gap located in a smaller diameter structure as shown in
Appendix I at the end of this chapter.
   (C)   Effective date. Effective June 2, 2003 any person, firm or corporation
having a clean water collection/discharge system that connects directly to the
city's sanitary sewer system shall disconnect the discharge system. Any
disconnects that create an opening in the sanitary sewer system shall be
repaired/replaced and inspected by the city's Public Works Director or his or
her designee.
   (D)   Inspection.
      (1)   Every person owning improved real estate that discharges wastewater
into the city's sanitary sewer system shall allow an employee of the city or
his or her designated representative to inspect dwellings, buildings and
structures to confirm the presence and use of a sump pump or other prohibited
discharge into the sanitary sewer system. The city will provide adequate
notification to property owners for this inspection.
      (2)   Prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for new
construction, the city shall provide an inspection to determine the
appropriateness of any storm water discharge system.
      (3)   Prior to the transfer of ownership of any dwelling, building or
structure within the city, the seller shall certify to the buyer, in writing,
that the dwelling, building or structure is in compliance with this section.
Seller shall provide a copy of this certificate to the city within 5 days
following the transfer of ownership.
      (4)   Any property owner that refuses to provide access for an inspection
may provide the city with a certificate of compliance from a licensed plumber
within 14 days from the date of notification or a failure to permit inspection.
Any property owner that fails to provide a certificate of compliance after
notification shall be in violation of this section subject to the penalties
provided under division (E) below.
   (E)   Penalty.
      (1)   In addition to any other charges or penalties provided for in City
Code, any property owner found in violation of this section of City Code shall
be subject to a sanitary sewer surcharge of $100 per month for each month or
part thereof that they remain in a noncompliant status.
      (2)   Any property owner that continues in a noncompliant status for a
period of 6 months following notification of noncompliance shall be subject to
suspension of municipal water and municipal sanitary sewer services until such
time as they are determined to be in compliance through inspection or
certification as provided in division (D) above.
   (F)   Other remedies. Nothing in this section shall limit the right of the
city to seek alternate solutions whereby the property owner is compelled to
disconnect unlawful storm water discharge into the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 51, Second Series, passed 9-3-2002)
WASTEWATER FACILITIES AND USER CHARGES
§ 52.20 WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM FACILITIES.
   The fees, rates and charges for using the wastewater disposal system
facilities shall be, upon the conditions and in the amounts set forth herein as
approved by the MPCA in accordance with § 204(b) of the Clean Water Act, to
ensure that each user shall pay for its proportionate share of the costs of
operation and maintenance, including replacement.
(Prior Code, § 3.31)
§ 52.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA CAPITAL CHARGE. A per unit charge, based upon use of the property as
shown in §
52.25 of this code, to pay that lot's portion of capital costs, and paid at the
time the principal structure is built or connects to city sewer or, if the
principal structure was constructed prior to adoption of this chapter, the AREA
CAPITAL CHARGE shall be paid when the use for the principal structure changes
and increases the number of REUs, or there is an addition or alteration made to
the principal structure.
   BOD (denoting BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biological oxidation of organic matter in 5 days at 20°C, expressed in
milligrams per liter, as determined in accordance with the latest edition of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   CAPITAL COSTS. All reasonable and necessary costs and expenses incurred by
the city in planning, designing, financing, and constructing disposal system
facilities, including but not limited to costs and expenses for obtaining
necessary permits, licenses, approvals and grants for design and construction
costs; fees for legal and consulting services; or the acquisition of such
facilities.
   COMMERCIAL USERS. All users of the system classified as industrial users in
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1972, U.S. Office of Management
and Budget, as amended and supplemented under Division A, B, C, E, and I but
who are excluded from such definition for the purposes of this section, because
they discharge primarily segregated domestic wastes, or wastes from sanitary
conveniences, except that the classification shall not include such exempted
users who are otherwise classified in this section as domestic users,
governmental users, or institutional users.
   CONNECTION CHARGE.  The charge for connecting a sewer line to the city sewer
system paid at the time the principal structure is built or connects to a city
sewer. If a building is connected to a city sewer but has not been required to
pay the connection charge by January 1, 2010, no connection charge will be
required.
   CONTRACT USERS. All users who have a written contract with the city to use
the city sewer system or city wastewater treatment plant.
   DEBT SERVICE. The principal and interest necessary to pay bonded
indebtedness.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The charge related to the principal and interest
necessary to pay bonded indebtedness of facilities owned or operated by the
city. The debt service charge includes a “debt service connection charge” and a
“debt service user charge”.
   DOMESTIC USER. Those establishments of which its related occupations, if
any, are usually considered a domestic service or residential class and whose
discharge consists solely of sanitary wastes.
   FLOW. The quantity of sewage expressed in gallons or cubic feet per 24
hours.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes those establishments whose function is the
administration and/or execution of governmental programs as well as the offices
of executives, legislative bodies and agencies which provide general support
services for government.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any entity which discharges to the city’s wastewater
treatment system, solid, liquid, or gaseous wastes resulting from the process
employed in industrial or manufacturing processes, or from the development of
any natural resource. A user may be excluded and treated as a commercial user
if the city determines it will primarily introduce domestic wastes or wastes
from sanitary conveniences. The BOD and suspended solids loads from industrial
users will be based on the actual concentrations of those constituents, except
that for industrial users with sewage containing BOD and suspended solids
concentrations less than the concentrations as defined for normal domestic
strength, the charges shall be based on concentrations as defined for normal
domestic strength.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Those establishments engaged in activities of a non-
economic nature, frequently being the performance of services classified as a
governmental or commercial user in this section.
   LOAD. Quantities of sewage characteristics such as BOD, SS and other
constituents as expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l) or pounds per 24 hours
(lbs/24 hours).
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH. Wastes with a Biological Oxygen Demand
Concentration not to exceed 222 milligrams per liter and a total Suspended
Solids Concentration not to exceed 268 milligrams per liter.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS (O&M COSTS). The expenses related to the
costs of the operation, maintenance, replacement and administration of the city
facilities.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Costs related to the expenditures for obtaining and
installing equipment, accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary to
maintain the capacity and performance during the useful life of the city
facilities for which such facilities were designed and constructed. The term
“Operation and Maintenance” includes REPLACEMENT.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENCY UNIT (REU). A prorated estimate of the maximum
capacity of the waste water system likely to be used by the particular use
compared to the maximum anticipated capacity used by a single-family residence,
which shall count as 1 unit.
   SANITARY WASTES. The liquid and water-carried wastes discharged from
sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE. The liquid-carried waste products from whatever source derived,
together with such ground water infiltration and surface water as may be
present.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage, industrial waste and other
waste liquids.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all the charges including the user
charge, debt service charges and other sewer-related charges that are billed
periodically to users of the city facilities.
   SEWER SYSTEM. Pipeliners or conduits, pumping stations, force mains, and all
other devices and appliances appurtenant thereto, used for collecting or
conducting sewage.
   TSS (denoting TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the
surface of, or are in suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids and which
are removable by laboratory filtering, in accordance with the latest edition of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   USER. Any person, or corporation, or other entity, whether municipal or
otherwise, discharging sewage into the city disposal system facilities.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of city facilities for the cost of
operation, maintenance and replacement of the facilities.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any facility, appurtenant structures, or
arrangement of devices used for the treatment of sewage.
(Prior Code, § 3.31) (Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 52.22 GENERAL.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to create a system to recover from “users”
of the city facilities, on an equitable basis, the share of the city
facilities’ costs attributable to the users, and to provide funds for the
operation and maintenance, debt service, and replacement of the wastewater
treatment facility. Rates, charges and billing shall be consistent with the
rules and regulations set forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.31)
§ 52.23 FUNDS FROM SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The funds received from the collection of the charges authorized by this
chapter shall be deposited as collected in the city’s Sewer Fund and shall be
used for the operation, maintenance, debt service, replacement, and
improvements of the city sewer system. The portion of any such funds which is
limited to a particular use by applicable state or federal rules or
regulations, shall be used in compliance with the restrictions.
(Prior Code, § 3.31)
§ 52.24 RESERVED.
§ 52.25 CHARGES FOR WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITY USERS.
   (A)   Area Capital Charge.
      (1)   The area capital charge is to be paid at the time at which a
building permit or a sewer connection permit is issued for all new buildings
121 square feet or more in area, even if that building is not connected to the
wastewater treatment system, and also for all existing buildings which become
connected to the wastewater treatment system.
      (2)   No charge shall be due upon the issuance of a connection permit if
an area capital charge was paid upon issuance of a building permit.
      (3)   A unit of sewage volume is 1 single-family residence with a
theoretical contribution of less than 222 mg/l of BOD and 268 mg/l of Total
Suspended Solids, and sewage flow of 75,000 gallons per year. The equivalent
units of sewage volume shall be assigned as follows: a
                                      Standard Sewage Volume Units for
                                      Various Residential Dwellings
Facility Description                  Parameter                        Units
Single family houses, townhouses, and 1.0 Unit
duplex units
Condominiums and apartment units      0.8 Unit
Mobile Homes                          1.0 Unit
Arena/Auditorium                      110 Seats                        1.0 Unit
Automobile Service                    2 Service Bays                   1.0 Unit
Banquet Room                          1000 Square Feet                 1.0 Unit
Bar/Lounge/Coffee Shop                600 Square Feet                  1.0 Unit
Barber Shop/Beauty Salon              Each                             1.0 Unit
Bowling Alley                         3 Alleys                         1.0 Unit
Car Wash - Self Service               1 Stall                          3.0 Unit
Car Wash - Service Station            Each                             4.0 Unit
Churches                              250 Seats                        1.0 Unit
 
   aSee Appendix A, Criteria for Commercial Uses, Metropolitan Council, 2005.
                                    Standard Sewage Volume Units for
                                    Various Commercial, Public and
                                    Institutional Facilities
Facility Description                Parameter                        Units
Daycare (Licensed)                  14 Children                      1.0 Unit
Exercise Area/Gum                   700 Square Feet                  1.0 Unit
Fast Service Restaurant             600 Square Feet                  1.0 Unit
Funeral Home                        770 Square Feet                  1.0 Unit
General Office Building             4000 Square Feet                 1.0 Unit
Golf Course                         18 Hole                          3.0 Units
                                    9 Hole                           2.0 Units
Golf Dome/Driving Range             6 Driving Stations               1.0 Unit
Greenhouse                          5000 Square Feet                 1.0 Unit
Handball/Racquetball/Basketball     1 Court                          2.0 Units
Hospitals                           1 Bed                            1.0 Unit
Laundromats                         4 Washing Machines               1.0 Unit
Motels and Hotels                   2 Rooms                          1.0 Unit
Museum/Gallery                      2400 Square Feet                 1.0 Unit
Nursing Home/Assisted Living        3 Beds                           1.0 Unit
Restaurant, Drive-In                10 Parking Spaces                1.0 Unit
Restaurant                          600 Square Feet                  1.0 Unit
Retail Store                        3,000 Square Feet                1.0 Unit
Rooming House                       7 Beds                           1.0 Unit
Schools (Elementary)                20 Students                      1.0 Unit
Schools (Secondary)                 15 Students                      1.0 Unit
Service Station (gas pumping only)  Each                             1.0 Unit
Service Station with Service Center Each                             2.0 Unit
Service Station with Service Center Each                             8.0 Unit
and Car Wash
 
                       Standard Sewage Volume Units for
                       Various Commercial, Public and
                       Institutional Facilities
Facility Description   Parameter                          Units
Swimming Pool          Each                               1.0 Unit
Theater                50 Seats                           1.0 Unit
Theater, Drive-In      50 Parking Spaces                  1.0 Unit
Warehouses             Up to 10,000 Square Feet           2.0 Units
                       Each additional 10,000 Square Feet 1.0 Additional Unit
                       or portion thereof
Yard Storage Buildings 15,000 Square Feet                 1.0 Unit
 
         (a)   The areas listed in the parameters above include all interior
areas utilized by the public and the estimated number of employees for the
conduct of the facility.
         (b)   The number of standard sewage volume units for a facility not
included in the above list shall be determined by the Council. A request for
determination should be made prior to the issuance of a building permit.
         (c)   Each new building or structure 121 square feet or more in area
shall be charged a minimum 1.0 REU. Each use for a multi-use building shall be
charged a minimum 1.0 REU.
         (d)   An alteration or addition to an existing building or structure
will be charged a minimum of 1,0 REU at the time the building permit is issued
in any of the following situations:
            1.   The structure is enlarged and made greater than 121 square
feet after the alteration or addition;
            2.   The alteration or addition requires an increased size of
utility services;
            3.   The alteration or addition increases the number of REUs in the
building; or
            4.   Construction of a new building on the same parcel as existing
buildings.
         The number of REUs resulting from an alteration or addition will be
figured using the table above.
         (e)   The dollar amount of the area capital charge imposed in a
situation described above will be a minimum $500 per REU, regardless of the
cost of the alteration or addition. The additional area capital charge plus the
minimum $500 shall not exceed 25% of the estimated value of the alteration or
addition as determined by the Building Official who shall apply the
International Building Code. The area capital charge is in addition to the
building permit cost pursuant to the International Building Code.
         (f)   Alterations meeting all of the following conditions shall be
exempt from paying the area capital and connection charges:
            1.   The alteration is necessitated by destruction to the
previously existing building caused by fire, a natural disaster or act of god;
            2.   The alteration does not increase the square footage of the
previously existing structure;
            3.   Application for the building permit for the alteration must be
made within 6 months after the fire, natural disaster or act of god; and
            4.   The alteration will not necessitate an increase in the service
size of the utility.
         (g)   The area capital charge shall be set and adjusted from time to
time through resolution in the city fee schedule.
   (B)   General User Charges.  
      (1)   Operations/maintenance/repair and debt service charges to general
users shall be composed of a minimum charge per connection, and a use charge
based on water meter records per billing period.
      (2)   The OM&R user charge for a particular user is calculated by
multiplying the charge/1000 gallons by the user’s average winter water
consumption volume as determined by water meter readings for that billing
period. If average winter usage is not available, then the charge is multiplied
by the current water consumption. OM&R User Charge = (Charge/1000 gallons) x
(Average Winter Use)
   (C)   No Water Meter. If a general user does not have a water meter, the
user charge for operation and maintenance shall be based on the equivalent
standard number of sewage volume units, where the determination of the number
of units shall be the same as used for the area capital charge. Therefore, a
unit sewage volume shall be 75,000 gallons per year.
   (D)   Unmetered Water.
      (1)   If a person feels that a significant amount of metered water does
not reach the sanitary sewer, the person can, at his or her own expense, with
approval of the city, install such additional meters or metered services as are
necessary to calculate the volume of water not discharged to the sanitary
sewer.
      (2)   Metered water not discharged to the sanitary sewers shall not be
subject to sewer service charges. Requests to install additional meters must be
made in writing to the city.
   (E)   Itemized Costs. The City Council shall itemize the various unit costs.
   (F)   Additional Costs. Any additional costs caused by discharges to the
treatment facilities of toxics or other incompatible wastes, including the cost
of restoring wastewater treatment services, clean-up and restoration of the
receiving waters and environs, shall be borne by the discharger(s) of the
wastes, at no expense to the city.
(Prior Code, § 3.31) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007; Am. Ord. 13, passed
9-4-2007; Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-1-2010)
§ 52.26 CAPITAL CONNECTION CHARGE.
   A one-time capital connection charge, as set by the City Council, is
required for each sewer line on the lot. If a lot has been connected to the
sewer prior to January 1, 2010, that lot shall not have to pay a capital
connection charge unless another connection is added on the lot. The capital
connection charge shall be set and adjusted from time to time through
resolution in the city fee schedule. This section is subject to the exemption
described in § 52.25(A)(3)(f).
(Am. Ord. 2010-01, passed 3-1-2010)
STORM WATER UTILITY FEE
§ 52.40 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FACILITIES.  Includes waterworks, sanitary sewer and storm sewer systems, or
any portion or portions thereof.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT FACTOR (REF). The ratio of the average volume of
runoff generated by 1 acre of given land use to the average volume of runoff
generated by 1 acre of typical single family residential land, during a
standard 1 year rainfall event.
   STORM SEWER. Storm sewer systems, including mains, holding areas and ponds,
and other appurtenances and related facilities for the collection and disposal
of storm water.
   STORM WATER AREA CHARGE. A one-time fee imposed to pay for construction,
repair, maintenance and other activities related to storm water facilities.
   STORM WATER DRAINAGE RATE. The storm water drainage rate is a fee set
annually by the Council. The rate is the variable factor used to generate
revenue from the storm water utility fee to cover storm water drainage budget
items.
   STORM WATER MANAGEMENT BUDGET. The annual budget approved by the Council for
storm water management including planning, monitoring, capital expenditures,
maintenance, land acquisition, personnel and equipment.
   STORM WATER UTILITY FEE. The monthly charge for each parcel of non-exempt
property in the city for the management of storm water. STORM WATER UTILITY
FEES for parcels of land shall be determined by multiplying the REF for a
parcel’s land use by the parcel’s acreage and then multiplying the resulting
product by the storm water drainage rate.
(Prior Code, § 3.32)
§ 52.41 RIGHT TO ESTABLISH UTILITY.
   The municipal storm sewer utility system shall be operated as a public
utility pursuant to M.S. § 444.075, from which revenues will be derived subject
to the provisions of this chapter and Minnesota Statutes. The storm water
drainage utility will be under the administration of the City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 3.32)
§ 52.42 RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT FACTOR VALUES.
   (A)   The Residential Equivalent Factor Values (REF) for various land uses
are as follows:
Classification Land Use REF
Classification Land Use                                               REF
1              Cemeteries, Public Open Space                          .20
2              Parks with parking structures                          .35
3              Single Family and Duplex Residential                   .70
4              Manufactured Housing Park                              .50
5              Public and Private Schools                             .50
6              Multiple Family Residential, Churches and Governmental 1.00
               Buildings
7              Industrial                                             1.50
8              Commercial/Business                                    3.00
 
   (B)   Agricultural and conservation zoned areas which have a residential or
commercial building on the property will be considered a single family
residential classification and be charged the single family REF of.70.
   (C)   Planned Unit Development zoning and parcels belonging to government
agencies other than the city will be charged at the rate deemed most
appropriate for each individual parcel.
   (D)   For the purpose of calculating storm water utility fees, all developed
single family and duplex parcels shall be considered to have an area of 1/
3 acre. The storm water drainage rate shall be as set by resolution by the
Council.
   (E)   Multi-use building shall be classified according to the primary use of
the building, i.e., commercial buildings with apartments above will be
classified as commercial.
(Prior Code, § 3.32)
§ 52.43 STORM WATER UTILITY FEES.
   (A)   The monthly storm water utility fee shall be determined in the
following manner:
       Acreage X REF X Drainage Rate = Amount Paid Monthly
    (B)   Examples:
      (1)   Cemeteries, Public Open Space = acreage X .20 X drainage rate.
      (2)   Parks with Parking structures = acreage X .35 X drainage rate.
      (3)   Single-Family/Duplexes = 1/3 acre X .70 X drainage rate.
      (4)   Manufactured Housing Park = acreage X .50 X drainage rate.
      (5)   Public and Private Schools = acreage X .50 X drainage rate.
      (6)   Multiple-Family Residential, Churches and Government Buildings =
acreage X 1.00 X drainage rate.
      (7)   Industrial = acreage X 1.50 X drainage rate.
      (8)   Commercial/Business = acreage X 3.00 X drainage rate.
(Prior Code, § 3.32)
   (C)   The storm water utility fee shall be billed monthly.
§ 52.44 CREDITS.
   (A)   The Council may adopt policies, recommended by the City Engineer in
order to adjust the storm water area fee for parcels based upon hydrologic data
to be supplied by the property owner, which data demonstrates a hydrologic
response substantially different from the standards. The adjustment of storm
water utility fees require Council approval.
   (B)   A parcel may be credited to the residential rate of the storm water
area fee for on-site measures reduce the outflow of sediment/nutrients from the
site. If the on-site measures are owned by the property owner, the Public Works
Director will periodically inspect the storm drainage control facilities to
ascertain that they are operating properly. If such a system, due to improper
maintenance or other reason, fails to detain or cleanse storm water runoff in
an effective manner, the Director may eliminate credits to an appropriate
level. Any such facility shall not be eligible for storm water area adjustments
for a period of 12 months following any credit adjustment. The issuance of any
building permit or other action which changes or intensifies an existing land
use shall be cause for an adjustment of storm water drainage fees to an
appropriate level.
(Prior Code, § 3.32)
§ 52.45 EXEMPTIONS.
   Land used for public right-of-way is exempt from monthly storm water utility
fees.
(Prior Code, § 3.32)
§ 52.46 PAYMENT OF FEE.
   Statements for the storm water utility fee shall be computed as presented in
§
50.03. Properties only receiving storm water utility bills will be billed
annually in May.
(Prior Code, § 3.32)
§ 52.47 RECALCULATION OF FEE.
   If a property owner or person responsible for paying the storm water utility
fee questions the correctness of the fee, the persons may make a written
request to the City Administrator to have the charge recalculated.
(Prior Code, § 3.32)
§ 52.48 STORM WATER AREA CHARGE.
   A storm water area charge will be imposed on a parcel at the time of
subdivision or construction of a structure 121 or more square feet in area. The
charge shall be based upon the gross area of the parcel less the area to be
dedicated to the city for ponding, parks and wetland, and right-of-way for
state highways, county roads and local arterial roadways, or pre-existing
right-of-way, intended to be maintained as right-of-way by the city in the
future. The parcel will be given a credit for any onsite storm water
improvement, which has been oversized to serve other property. The charge for
lots oversized due to individual septic systems and water systems will be
reduced to the charge that would be imposed on a one-half acre lot. An
additional charge will then be imposed if the lot is further subdivided less a
credit for the charge previously paid. The charge shall be paid in cash before
the subdivision is approved by the city or the building permit issued unless
the city and subdivider agree that the charge may be assessed against the
property. Property shall be exempt from the storm water area charge imposed by
this section if the charges were paid or assessed in conjunction with a
previous subdivision of the property or building permit and if the property is
not being zoned to a classification with a higher charge.
APPENDIX I: TYPICAL SUMP PUMP INSTALLATION DETAILS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1291.jpg]
 
(Ord. 51, Second Series, passed 9-3-2002)
CHAPTER 53: STREET LIGHTING UTILITY
Section   
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Charges
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   For purposes of general health, safety and welfare, it is in the best
interests of the residents that the City of Jordan operate and maintain a
street lighting system throughout the city. It is the intent of the city to
provide the services, and to receive reimbursement for the cost thereof by the
way of a street lighting utility.
(Prior Code, § 3.33) (Am. Ord. 55, Second Series, passed 4-22-2003)
§ 53.02 CHARGES.
   (A)   Charges for the operation and maintenance of street lighting shall be
made against all property benefitted thereof. Rates shall be established on a
flat fee basis as established and from time to time amended by the City
Council.
   (B)   Street lighting utility fees shall be collected by the city together
with other utilities such as water, sewer and storm water. Payment shall be
required on or before the due date established by such billing. Delinquent
charges shall be collected in accordance with §
50.04.
(Prior Code, § 3.33) (Am. Ord. 55, Second Series, passed 4-22-2003)
CHAPTER 54: FIRE UTILITY
Section
   
54.01   Purpose
   
54.02   Charges
§ 54.01 PURPOSE.
   For purposes of general health, safety and welfare, it is in the best
interests of the residents that the City of Jordan operates and maintains a
City Fire Department. It is the intent of the city to provide the services, and
to receive reimbursement for the cost thereof by the way of a fire call
utility.
(Prior Code, § 3.34) (Am. Ord. 61, Second Series, passed 10-6-2003)
§ 54.02 CHARGES.
   (A)   Charges for fire and rescue calls excluding medical calls within the
city shall be made against all property benefitted thereby. Rates shall be
established on a flat fee basis as established in the city fee schedule and
from time to time amended by the City Council.
   (B)   A late fee shall be assessed on delinquent charges pursuant to §
50.04 of the Jordan City Code and delinquent charges and late fees shall be
collected pursuant to §
50.04(A) of the Jordan City Code and M.S. §§ 366.011 and 366.012.
(Prior Code, § 3.34) (Am. Ord. 61, Second Series, passed 10-6-2003)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
72.   BICYCLES
      
73.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Definitions
   
70.02   Application
   
70.03   Reserved
   
70.04   Traffic and parking control
   
70.05   Private use of public streets and parking lots
   
70.06   Curb and gutter, street and sidewalk painting or coloring
   
70.07   Motorized vehicles prohibited on sidewalks
   
70.08   Size, weight and load roadway restrictions
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Chapter 96
§ 70.01 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise defined in the city code, or where the context clearly
indicates a contrary intent, the words and terms defined in M.S. Chapter 169,
shall be applicable to this entire Title VII.
(Prior Code, § 7.01)
§ 70.02 APPLICATION.
   The provisions of this title are applicable to the drivers of all vehicles
and animals upon streets, including, but not limited to, those owned or
operated by the United States, the State of Minnesota, or any county, town,
city, district, or other political subdivision.
(Prior Code, § 7.02)
§ 70.03 RESERVED.
§ 70.04 TRAFFIC AND PARKING CONTROL.
   (A)   Council action. No device, sign or signal shall be erected or
maintained for traffic or parking control unless the Council shall first have
approved and directed the same, except as otherwise provided in this section;
provided, that when traffic and parking control is marked or sign-posted, the
marking or sign-posting shall attest to Council action thereon.
   (B)   Temporary restrictions. The city, acting through the Chief of Police
or Fire Chief, may temporarily restrict traffic or parking for any private,
public or experimental purpose. It is the duty of the Chief of Police or Fire
Chief to so restrict traffic or parking when a hazardous condition arises or is
observed.
   (C)   Orders of an officer. It is a misdemeanor for any person to willfully
fail or refuse to comply with any direction of police officers or firefighters
who within the course of their duty are directing, controlling or regulating
traffic.
   (D)   Damaging or moving markings. It is a misdemeanor for any person to
deface, mar, damage, move, remove, or in any way tamper with any structure,
work, material, equipment, tools, sign, signal, barricade, fence, painting or
appurtenance in any street unless the person has written permission from the
city or is an agent, employee or contractor for the city, or other authority
having jurisdiction over a particular street, and acting within the authority
or scope of a contract with the city or such other authority.
(Prior Code, § 7.04) (Am. Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 70.05 PRIVATE USE OF PUBLIC STREETS AND PARKING LOTS.
   (A)   Authority, permission and procedure.
      (1)   Upon an application duly made to the City Administrator and
reviewed and recommended by the Chief of Police, the Council may in its
discretion, grant special permission whereby on-street parking or the use of
city-owned parking lots or ramps or public sidewalks may be temporarily or
permanently prohibited or restricted for private reasons and purposes
(including, but not limited to, establishment of private or “leased” parking,
“loading zones”, or benches) at such places, on such terms and restrictions,
and for such consideration as the Council may deem just and equitable.
      (2)   In granting such permission, the Council shall consider the amount
of space, location thereof, if any, public inconvenience, hazards to persons or
property, provisions to provide for clear visibility of traffic control signs
and lines of sight, and special warning devices for pedestrians and drivers.
      (3)   Upon complaint of any aggrieved person at any time and by reason of
any specific special permission so granted, the Council shall at its next
regular meeting after receipt of the complaint, call a hearing thereon to be
held after 10 days’ notice in writing to applicant and complainant and
published notice at least 10 days prior to the hearing. After the hearing the
Council shall by resolution decide whether to terminate, continue or redefine
the terms of the permission and the decision shall be final and binding on all
persons directly or indirectly interested therein, except that the Council may,
on its own motion, reconsider the same. The Chief of Police may grant special
permission for on-street parking in “no parking” districts.
   (B)   Public vehicles. Free and reserved on-street parking shall be limited
to city-owned and operated vehicles.
   (C)   Forbidden practices. It is unlawful for any person to park or
otherwise infringe upon a grant of right under this section, when clearly and
distinctly marked or sign-posted. It is unlawful for any person not granted the
right to assert the same, or for any grantee of the right to exceed the same
under claim thereto.
   (D)   Condition. Before granting any permit under any of the provisions of
this section, the Council may impose the insurance or bonding conditions
thereon as it deems proper for safeguarding the persons and property,
considering the projected danger to public or private property or to persons.
The insurance or bond shall also protect the city from any suit, action or
cause of action arising by reason thereof.
(Prior Code, § 7.14) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 CURB AND GUTTER, STREET AND SIDEWALK PAINTING OR COLORING.
   It is unlawful for any person to paint, letter or color any street, sidewalk
or curb and gutter for advertising purposes, or to paint or color any street,
sidewalk or curb and gutter for any purpose, except as the same may be done by
city employees acting within the course or scope of their employment. Provided,
however, that this provision shall not apply to uniformly coloring concrete or
other surfacing, or uniformly painted house numbers, as the coloring may be
approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.15) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 MOTORIZED VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALKS.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive or operate a motorized vehicle on any
public sidewalk or public property designated for use as a pedestrian walkway
or bicycle trail, except when crossing the same for ingress and egress through
a curb cut to property lying on the other side thereof. This section shall not
apply to an electric wheelchair operated by a handicapped person or a motorized
vehicle being used for snow removal.
(Prior Code, § 7.16) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.08 SIZE, WEIGHT AND LOAD ROADWAY RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Adopted by reference. The regulatory provisions of M.S. §§ 169.80
through 169.89, as amended, are hereby adopted by reference as roadway
restriction ordinances, regulating the size, weight and load restrictions of
all vehicles upon the roadways within the city, and are hereby incorporated and
made a part of this code as completely as if set out in full herein.
   (B)   Size, weight and load restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any
person to drive or move, or for the owner to cause or knowingly permit to be
driven or moved, on a roadway within the city, a vehicle or vehicles of a size,
weight or load exceeding the limitations provided in M.S. §§ 169.80 through
169.89.
   (C)   Seasonal load restrictions.
      (1)   Pursuant to M.S. § 169.89, subd. 1, the City Council, by a duly
adopted resolution and upon recommendation of the Public Works Director, may
impose prohibitions and restrictions as to the weight of vehicles on the city’s
streets between the dates set by the Commissioner of the Department of
Transportation each year if roadway conditions so warrant.
      (2)   No person shall drive or move, nor shall the owner cause or
knowingly permit to be driven or moved, on a roadway within the city, a vehicle
or vehicles of a weight exceeding the posted seasonal limitations as set forth
by City Council resolution.
   (D)   Special permit. The City Council authorizes the city’s Public Works
Director in his or her discretion, with respect to city roadways, upon
application in writing and good cause shown, to issue a special permit, in
writing, authorizing an applicant to move a vehicle or combination of vehicles
of a size or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum and to impose
appropriate conditions upon the movement of such vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 7.11) (Am. Ord. 2015-04, passed 3-16-2015) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   Any person whose actions are not in compliance with this title shall, upon
conviction, be punished as follows:
   (A)   Where the particular section or provision specifically makes violation
a misdemeanor, the offender shall be punished as for a misdemeanor; where a
violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger any person or property, the offender shall be punished as
for a misdemeanor; where the offender has been convicted of 3 or more
violations of this title within a 12-month period, exclusive of violations
relating to the standing or parking of an unattended vehicle, the offender
shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
   (B)   As to any violation not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of division (A) above, the offender shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7.99)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   M.S. Chapters 168, 169 and 171 adopted by reference
   
71.02   Truck routes
   
71.03   U-turns
   
71.04   Prohibited turns
   
71.05   Exhibition driving
   
71.06   One-way streets
   
71.07   Driving through private property to avoid traffic signal
   
71.08   Emergency vehicles
   
71.09   Recreational motor vehicles
   
71.10   Skateboards, roller skates, roller blades and roller skis
   
71.11   Excessive vehicle noise prohibited
   
71.12   Motorized golf carts
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 M.S. CHAPTERS 168, 169 AND 171 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this title, the regulatory and procedural
provisions of M.S. Chapter 168, Chapter 169 (commonly referred to as the
Highway Traffic Regulation Act), 169A, and Chapter 171, as amended, are hereby
incorporated herein and adopted by reference, including the penalty provisions
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 8.01)
§ 71.02 TRUCK ROUTES.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive a tractor, agricultural implement,
truck over 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, truck-trailer, tractor-trailer
or truck tractor in through traffic, upon any street except those which have
been designated and sign-posted as truck routes. For the purpose of this
chapter, THROUGH TRAFFIC means originating without the city and with a
destination without the city, as distinguished from “local traffic” which means
traffic either originating or having a destination within the city. School
buses are exempt as posted.
(Prior Code, § 8.02)
§ 71.03 U-TURNS.
   It is unlawful for any person to turn a vehicle so as to reverse its
direction on any street in the Business District or at any intersection where
traffic is regulated by a traffic control signal.
(Prior Code, § 8.04) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 PROHIBITED TURNS.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may, in his or her discretion, and with the
consent of the Council, prohibit left turns entirely, or during specified
hours, at certain intersections. It is unlawful for any person to make a left
turn at any intersection sign-posted prohibiting the same, or make a left turn
during the hours of the sign-posted prohibition.
(Prior Code, § 8.05)
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to back a vehicle from an angle parking
space so as to head in a direction generally opposite from that of the angle
parking space in which the vehicle was parked.
(Prior Code, § 8.06)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 EXHIBITION DRIVING.
   (A)   Prima facie evidence. It is prima facie evidence of exhibition driving
when a motor vehicle stops, starts, accelerates, decelerates, or turns at an
unnecessary rate of speed so as to cause tires to squeal, gears to grind, soil
to be thrown, engine backfire, fishtailing or skidding, or, as to 2-wheeled or
3-wheeled motor vehicles, the front wheel to lose contact with the ground or
roadway surface.
   (B)   Unlawful act. It is a misdemeanor for any person to do any exhibition
driving on any street, parking lot, or other public or private property, except
when an emergency creates necessity for the operation to prevent injury to
persons or damage to property; provided, that this section shall not apply to
driving on a racetrack. For purposes of this section, a RACETRACK means any
track or premises whereon motorized vehicles, horses, dogs, or other animals or
fowl legally compete in a race or timed contest for an audience, the members of
which have directly or indirectly paid a consideration for admission.
(Prior Code, § 8.07) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 ONE-WAY STREETS.
   (A)   The Council may, by resolution, designate streets as 1-way streets.
   (B)   It is a petty misdemeanor for any person to travel upon any 1-way
street in a direction opposite that designated when the same has been duly
sign-posted.
(Prior Code, § 8.08) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.07 DRIVING THROUGH PRIVATE PROPERTY TO AVOID TRAFFIC SIGNAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to avoid any traffic control device by driving
upon or through any private property.
(Prior Code, § 8.09) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.08 EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to vehicles when operated
with due regard for safety, under the direction of police officers in the chase
or apprehension of violators of the law or of persons charged with or suspected
of any such violation, nor to Fire Department or fire patrol vehicles when
traveling in response to a fire alarm, nor to public ambulances when traveling
in emergencies. This exemption shall not, however, protect the driver of any
such vehicle from the consequences of reckless disregard of the safety of
others.
(Prior Code, § 8.10)
§ 71.09 RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALL-TERRAIN VEHICLE or ATV. Motorized trail bikes, amphibious vehicles,
ATVs as defined in M.S. § 84.92 and similar devices, other than snowmobiles and
utility task vehicles, used at least partially for travel on natural terrain,
but not "special mobile equipment", as defined in M.S. § 168.011, Subdivision
22, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
      MOTORIZED BICYCLE. A bicycle with fully operable pedals which may be
propelled by human power or a motor, or by both, with a motor of a capacity of
less than 50 cubic centimeters piston displacement, and a maximum of 2 break
horsepower, which is capable of a maximum speed of not more than 30 mph on a
flat surface with not more than 1% grade in any direction when the motor is
engaged.
      MOTORIZED FOOT SCOOTERS. A transportation device that has handlebars; can
be either stood on or sat on by the operator (saddle optional); is powered by
an electric motor or internal combustion engine that is capable of powering the
device with or without human propulsion; and has either (1) wheels no more than
10 inches in diameter, or (2) an engine that is capable of a maximum speed of
not more than 15 miles per hour on a flat surface.
      OPERATE. To ride in or on and have control of a recreational motor
vehicle.
      OPERATOR. The person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
recreational motor vehicle.
      OWNER. A person, other than a lien holder, having a property interest in,
or title to, a recreational motor vehicle, who is entitled to the use or
possession thereof.
      RECREATIONAL MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled vehicle and any vehicle
propelled or drawn by a self-propelled vehicle used for recreational purposes,
including but not limited to a motorized bicycle, all-terrain vehicle, utility
task vehicle, snowmobile, hovercraft, or motor vehicle licensed for highway
operation which is being used for off-road recreational purposes.
      SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
or natural terrain steered by wheels, skis or runners.
      UTILITY TASK VEHICLE or UTV. A side-by-side, four-wheel drive, off-road
vehicle that has four wheels, is capable of carrying at least 2 and up to 6
people, is equipped with a steering wheel and rollover protection, is propelled
by an internal combustion engine with a piston displacement capacity of 1,200
cubic centimeters or less, and has a total dry weight of 1,000 but less than
2,600 pounds.
      SNOWMOBILE. A self-propelled vehicle designed for travel on snow or ice
or natural terrain steered by wheels, skis or runners.
   (B)   Recreational motor vehicle operating restrictions. It is unlawful for
any person to operate a recreational motor vehicle as follows:
      (1)   On a public sidewalk or walkway provided or used for pedestrian
travel;
      (2)   On private property of another without lawful authority or
permission of the owner or occupant;
      (3)   On any lands or frozen waters owned or occupied by a public body,
including, but not limited to, school grounds, park property, playgrounds,
recreational areas, private roads, platted but unimproved roads, utility
easements, public trails and golf courses. Provided, however, that the Council
may, by resolution, specifically permit use on city property, in which event
the shortest route to and from areas so permitted shall be used;
      (4)   While the operator is under the influence of liquor or narcotics,
or habit-forming drugs;
      (5)   At a rate of speed greater than reasonable or proper under all of
the surrounding circumstances;
      (6)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger the
person or property of another or cause injury or damage thereto;
      (7)   Towing any person or thing on a public street or highway except
through the use of a rigid tow bar attached to the rear of an automobile;
      (8)   Subject to division (B)(5) of this section, at a speed greater than
10 mph, excluding utility task vehicles, which must be operated at or below the
posted speed limit;
      (9)   In a manner so as to create a loud, unnecessary or unusual noise
which disturbs, annoys or interferes with the peace and quiet of other persons;
      (10)   Chasing, running over, or killing any animal, wild or domestic;
and
      (11)   During the hours between 11:00 p.m. of 1 day and 7:00 a.m. of the
day next following, except that during such hours a recreational motor vehicle,
if otherwise lawfully operated, may be operated on a public street. Utility
task vehicles are excluded from this division (B)(11) as their hours of
operation are governed by division (G)(5) of this section.
   (C)   Owner responsibility.
      (1)   It is unlawful for the owner of any recreational motor vehicle to
permit its operation on private property without permission of the landowner or
occupant, on city property without the permission of the Council, or on other
public property without permission of the body in charge thereof. For purposes
of this section, the owner of the recreational motor vehicle shall be
conclusively presumed to have given the permission unless the recreational
motor vehicle so operated shall have been reported stolen to a law enforcement
agency.
      (2)   Every person leaving a recreational motor vehicle in a public place
shall lock the ignition, remove the key and take the same with him or her.
   (D)   Additional snowmobile operating regulations.
      (1)   A person may not operate a snowmobile anywhere within city limits
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. It is unlawful for any person to
operate a snowmobile upon the roadway, shoulder, or inside bank or slope of any
street or highway except on a direct route from their residence to the nearest
snowmobile trail designated by the Council. No person may operate a snowmobile
on any trail designated by the City Council unless they are on a direct route
to or from their residence to or from city limits. Operation on boulevards and
sidewalks is prohibited. The intent of this section is to allow snowmobile
travel within city limits from the snowmobile operator’s residence to the trail
system outside of the city. This must be accomplished by the most direct route.
Any operation other than that allowed in this section is prohibited.
      (2)   A snowmobile may make a direct crossing of a street or highway
except an interstate highway or freeway, provided:
         (a)   The crossing is made at an angle of approximately 90 degrees to
the direction of the street or highway and at a place where no obstruction
prevents a quick and safe crossing;
         (b)   The snowmobile is brought to a complete stop before crossing the
shoulder or main traveled way of the highway;
         (c)   The driver yields the right-of-way to all oncoming traffic which
constitutes an immediate hazard;
         (d)   In crossing a divided street or highway, the crossing is made
only at an intersection of the street or highway with another public street or
highway; and
         (e)   If the crossing is made between the hours of ½ hour after sunset
to ½ hour before sunrise or in conditions of reduced visibility, only if both
front and rear lights are on.
      (3)   No snowmobile shall enter any uncontrolled intersection without
making a complete stop. The operator shall then yield the right-of-way to any
vehicles or pedestrians which constitute an immediate hazard.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any prohibition in this section, a snowmobile may
be operated on a public thoroughfare in an emergency during the period of time
when, and at locations where, snow upon the roadway renders travel by
automobile impractical.
      (5)   All residents born after December 31, 1979, must have in their
possession a valid snowmobile safety certificate issued by the State of
Minnesota to operate a snowmobile. No person under 16 years of age shall
operate on streets or highways or make a direct crossing of a street or highway
as the operator of a snowmobile. A person 14 years of age or older, but less
than 16 years of age, may operate a snowmobile on streets or highways and make
direct crossings of streets and highways within the municipality provided that
the person is accompanied by a parent or guardian. It is unlawful for the owner
of a snowmobile to permit the snowmobile to be operated contrary to the
provisions of this section.
   (E)   Snowmobile equipment. It is unlawful for any person to operate a
snowmobile unless it is equipped with the following:
      (1)   Standard mufflers which are properly attached and in constant
operation, and which reduce the noise of operation of the motor to the minimum
necessary for operation. Mufflers shall comply with Regulation CONS. 55 which
is hereby adopted by reference as it existed on September l, l970. No person
shall use a muffler cut-out, by-pass, straight pipe or similar device on a
snowmobile motor, and the exhaust system shall not emit or produce a sharp
popping or crackling sound.
      (2)   Brakes adequate to control the movement of and to stop and hold the
snowmobile under any conditions of the operation.
      (3)   A safety or so-called “deadman” throttle in operating condition, so
that when pressure is removed from the accelerator or throttle, the motor is
disengaged from the driving track.
      (4)   At least 1 clear lamp attached to the front, with sufficient
intensity to reveal persons and vehicles at a distance of at least 100 feet
ahead during the hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. The
head lamp shall be so aimed that glaring rays are not projected into the eyes
of an oncoming vehicle operator. It shall also be equipped with at least 1 red
tail lamp having a minimum candle power of sufficient intensity to exhibit a
red light plainly visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear during the
hours of darkness under normal atmospheric conditions. The equipment to be in
operating condition when the vehicle is operated between the hours of ½ hour
after sunset to ½ hour before sunrise or at times of reduced visibility.
      (5)   Reflective material at least 16 inches on each side, forward of the
handlebars, so as to reflect or beam light at a 90 degree angle.
   (F)   Additional ATV regulations. ATVs are not allowed in the city limits
except on private property where permission has been granted by the property
owner; however, authorized city staff may operate city-owned ATVs on city
streets, sidewalks, trails, rights-of way, and public property when conducting
city business.
   (G)   Additional UTV regulations. No person shall operate a utility task
vehicle on: (a) private property unless permission has been granted by the
property owner; or (b) city streets or alleys within the City without obtaining
a permit as provided herein; however, authorized city staff may operate city-
owned utility task vehicles without obtaining a permit on city streets,
sidewalks, trails, rights-of-way, and public property when conducting city
business.
      (1)   Application for a utility task vehicle operating permit shall be
made on a form supplied by the Police Department and shall contain all of the
following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the applicant.
         (b)   Model name, make, and year and registration number of the
utility task vehicle.
         (c)   Evidence of insurance in compliance with the provisions of
Minnesota Statutes concerning insurance coverage for the utility task vehicle.
         (d)   The applicant's current driver's license.
         (e)   Such other information as the city may require.
      (2)   Permits shall be granted by the Chief of Police for a period of 1
year and may be renewed. It is the responsibility of each permit holder to
apply for renewal as necessary. The city is not responsible for providing
permit holders with renewal reminders.
      (3)   No permit shall be granted or renewed unless the applicant
demonstrates that he or she possesses a current and valid Minnesota driver's
license, they must show their UTV is currently registered with the State of
Minnesota, and they must provide current proof of insurance for their UTV.
      (4)   Utility task vehicles are permitted to operate only on city
streets, not state or federal highways, with the exception of being allowed to
cross state or federal highways at designated intersections.
      (5)   Utility task vehicles may only be operated on designated roadways
from sunrise to sunset. They shall not be operated in inclement weather
conditions or at any time when there is insufficient light to clearly see
persons and vehicles on the roadway at a distance of 500 feet. Except for the
purpose of snow removal, operation of utility task vehicles is prohibited when
visibility is impaired by weather, smoke, fog, or other conditions, or at any
time when there is insufficient light to clearly see persons or vehicles on the
roadway at a distance of 500 feet.
      (6)   Utility task vehicles shall be equipped with working headlights,
taillights, turn signals, and a rear-view mirror to provide the driver with
adequate vision from behind.
      (7)   very person operating a utility task vehicle under permit on
designated roadways has all the rights, obligations and duties applicable to
the driver of any other vehicle under the provisions of M.S. 169, as it may be
amended from time to time.
      (8)   The Chief of Police may suspend or revoke a permit granted
hereunder upon a finding that the holder thereof has violated any of the
provisions of this section or M.S. Ch. 169, as it may be amended from time to
time, or if there is evidence that the permit holder cannot safely operate the
utility task vehicle on the designated roadways.
      (9)   The number of occupants on the utility task vehicle may not exceed
the design occupant load.
(Prior Code, § 8.11) (Am. Ord. 40, Second Series, passed 12-18-2000; Am. Ord.
2018-01, passed 1-2-2018) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.10 SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER BLADES AND ROLLER SKIS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ROLLER SKATES or ROLLER BLADES. A form of skate with small wheels or
rollers instead of a blade or rudder.
      ROLLER SKIS. A ski with small wheels attached.
      SKATEBOARD. A device for riding upon, usually while standing, consisting
of an oblong piece of wood or other composition, mounted on skate wheels.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. It is unlawful for any person to operate a
skateboard, roller skates, roller blades, or roller skis:
      (1)   On private property of another without the express permission to do
so by the owner or occupant of the property;
      (2)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner so as to endanger or be
likely to endanger, the safety of the operator, any person or property of any
other person;
      (3)   On the following streets, roads, or highways: Trunk Highway 282,
Trunk Highway 21, Trunk Highway 169, Sunset Drive, County Road 9, and Hillside
Drive, or in the Central Business District; and/or
      (4)   By attaching the same or the person of the operator to any
motorized or non-motorized vehicle upon any roadway.
   (C)   Operation. Every person operating a skateboard, roller skates, roller
blades, or roller skis shall have all the rights, duties, and responsibilities
applicable to the driver or operator of any other vehicle upon any public
street or alley. The operator of any skateboard, roller skates, roller blades,
or roller skis emerging from an alley shall stop and yield the right-of-way to
any pedestrians on the sidewalk or approaching the sidewalk area, or to all
vehicles approaching upon the roadway. Every person operating a skateboard,
roller skates, roller blades, or roller skis upon a roadway shall ride as close
as possible to the right hand curb or edge of the roadway and in the same
direction as other traffic upon the roadway.
   (D)   Impoundment. Any person apprehended and convicted in violation of the
provisions of this section does, by their use of the public streets and
sidewalks, consent to the impoundment by the city of their skateboard, roller
skates, roller blades, or roller skis for a period of 3 days upon the first
offense, 7 days upon the second offense and 30 days upon the third offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.12)
§ 71.11 EXCESSIVE VEHICLE NOISE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABNORMAL OR EXCESSIVE NOISE.
         (a)   Distinct and loudly audible noise that unreasonably annoys,
disturbs, injuries, or endangers the comfort and repose of any person or
precludes their enjoyment of property or affects their property’s value;
         (b)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.69, as it may be
amended from time to time, which requires every motor vehicle to be equipped
with a muffler in good working order; or
         (c)   Noise in excess of that permitted by M.S. § 169.693 and Minn.
Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1060, as this statute and these rules may be
amended from time to time, which establish motor vehicle noise standards.
      ENGINE RETARDING BRAKE. A Dynamic Brake, Jake Brake, Jacobs Brake, C-
Brake, Paccar Brake, transmission brake or other similar engine retarding brake
system which alters the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releases that compression.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge the exhaust or permit
the discharge of the exhaust from any motor vehicle except through a muffler
that effectively prevents abnormal or excessive noise and complies with all
applicable state laws and regulations.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of any truck to intentionally
use an engine retarding brake on any public highway, street, parking lot or
alley within the city which causes abnormal or excessive noise from the engine
because of an illegally modified or defective exhaust system, except in an
emergency.
   (D)   M.S. §§ 169.69 and 169.693 (motor vehicle noise limits) and Minn.
Rules parts 7030.1000 through 7030.1060, as these statutes and rules may be
amended from time to time, are hereby adopted by reference.
   (E)   Signs stating “VEHICLE NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” may be installed at
locations deemed appropriate by the City Council to advise motorists of the
prohibitions contained in this section, except that no sign stating “VEHICLE
NOISE LAWS ENFORCED” shall be installed on a state highway without a permit
from the Minnesota Department of Transportation. The provisions of this section
are in full force and effect even if no signs are installed.
   (F)   It is the intention of the City Council that all future amendments to
any statutes and rules referenced or adopted by reference in this section are
also referenced or adopted by reference as if they had been in existence at the
time this section was adopted.
(Ord. 23, Second Series, passed 2-5-2001) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.12 MOTORIZED GOLF CARTS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires
different meaning.
      MOTORIZED GOLF CART. An electric or gas-powered vehicle with 4 wheels
used primarily for light-terrain slow-moving or low-speed operation.
      SLOW MOVING VEHICLE EMBLEM. Placard described and attached to vehicle as
listed in M.S. § 169.522.
   (B)   Operating provisions. It is lawful to operate a motorized golf cart
upon city owned and maintained streets if the following criteria is met:
      (1)   The person has obtained a permit to operate the vehicle from the
Chief of Police;
      (2)   The vehicle is equipped with slow-moving vehicle emblem;
      (3)   The vehicle is equipped with operational headlights, taillights,
turn signals, and a rear-view mirror;
      (4)   The owner of the vehicle has obtained insurance for the vehicle in
accordance with M.S. § 169.045.
   (C)   Restrictions. It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a
motorized golf cart:
      (1)   At a speed greater than 12 mph;
      (2)   On any United States trunk highway, Minnesota state highway, or
county state aid highway;
      (3)   On Sunset Drive from Aberdeen Avenue to 2nd Street and on Hillside
Drive from Sunset Drive to Cedar Lane Drive;
      (4)   On any portion of the roadway other than as close to the right-hand
curb as possible, except when the driver is making a left-hand turn;
      (5)   In a careless or reckless manner;
      (6)   From ½ hour prior to sundown to sunrise;
      (7)   In violation of any state traffic law when applicable.
   (D)   Private roadways. Nothing in this section shall prohibit the owner of
real property used by the public for the purposes of vehicular travel from
prohibiting the use, or requiring different or additional restrictions than
those specified in this section or state statute.
   (E)   Permit process. To obtain a permit an individual must be at least 16
years old, possess a valid driver's license, and pay a permit fee as determined
in the annual fee schedule. Permits shall be granted by the Chief of Police for
a period of 1 year and may be renewed. All permits will expire on March 31 of
each year. It is the responsibility of each permit holder to apply for renewal
as necessary. The city is not responsible for providing permit holders with
renewal reminders.
(Ord. 37, Second Series, passed 11-6-2000; Am. Ord. 2021-10, passed 9-20-2021)
Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person whose actions are not in compliance with this chapter upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   Where a particular section or provision specifically makes
violation a misdemeanor, the offender shall be punished as for a misdemeanor;
where a violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances so as to
endanger or be likely to endanger any person or property, the offender shall be
punished as for a misdemeanor; where the person is convicted of three or more
violations of this chapter, exclusive of violations relating to the standing or
parking of an unattended vehicle, within the immediately-preceding 12-month
period the offender shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
      (2)   As to any violations of this chapter not constituting a misdemeanor
pursuant to (A)(1) above, an offender shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor.
      (3)   As to any violation of any statute or rule adopted by reference, an
offender shall be punished as specified in such provision, so adopted.
(Prior Code, § 8.99)
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §
71.11 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a petty misdemeanor and punished by
a fine as provided in M.S. § 609.02, Subd. 4a.
(Ord. 23, Second Series, passed 2-5-2001)
CHAPTER 72: BICYCLES
Section
   
72.01   Traffic laws apply
   
72.02   Manner and number riding
   
72.03   Hitching rides
   
72.04   Where to ride
   
72.05   Right-of-way; sidewalks
   
72.06   Carrying articles
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Streets and Sidewalks Generally, see
Chapter 96
§ 72.01 TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY.
   (A)   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway or upon any path set
aside for the exclusive use of bicycles shall be granted all of the rights and
shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except as to special regulations in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.03)
   (B)   Motorized bicycles, as defined in §
71.09 of this code, shall follow applicable rules and be subject to the
penalties listed in M.S. Chapters 169 and 171.
§ 72.02 MANNER AND NUMBER RIDING.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person propelling a bicycle to ride other than
upon or astride a permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped, except on a baby seat attached to
the bicycle, provided that the seat is equipped with a harness to hold the
child securely in the seat and that protection is provided against the child’s
feet hitting the spokes of the wheel or in a seat attached to the bicycle
operator.
   (C)   Motorized foot scooters, as defined in §
71.09 of this code, shall follow applicable rules and be subject to the
penalties listed in M.S. 169 and 171.
(Prior Code, § 8.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 HITCHING RIDES.
   It is unlawful for any person riding upon any bicycle, coaster, roller
skates, toboggan, sled, skateboard or toy vehicle to attach the same or himself
or herself to any vehicle upon a roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.04 WHERE TO RIDE.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   Persons riding bicycles upon a roadway shall not ride more than 2
abreast except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
roadway, bicycle riders shall use the paths and shall not use the roadway.
(Prior Code, § 8.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.05 RIGHT-OF-WAY; SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, the person shall
yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall give audible signal before
overtaking and passing the pedestrian. It is unlawful for any person to ride a
bicycle on a sidewalk in a Business District or to park a bicycle upon a
sidewalk except where parking stalls have been provided.
(Prior Code, § 8.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.06 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   It is unlawful for any person operating a bicycle to carry any package,
bundle or article which prevents the driver from keeping at least 1 hand upon
the handlebars.
(Prior Code, § 8.03) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Any person whose actions are not in compliance with this chapter upon
conviction, shall be punished as follows:
   (A)   Where a particular section or provision specifically makes violation a
misdemeanor, the offender shall be punished as for a misdemeanor; where a
violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger any person or property, the offender shall be punished as
for a misdemeanor; where a person is convicted of 3 or more violations of this
chapter, exclusive of violations relating to the standing or parking of an
unattended vehicle, within the immediately-preceding 12-month period, the
offender shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
   (B)   As to any violations not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of division (A) above, an offender shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor.
   (C)   As to any violation of a statute or rule adopted by reference, the
offender shall be punished as specified in such provision, so adopted.
(Prior Code, § 8.99)
CHAPTER 73: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
73.01   Presumption
   
73.02   General parking prohibitions
   
73.03   Recreational camping vehicle parking
   
73.04   Direction to proceed
   
73.05   Parallel parking
   
73.06   Angle parking
   
73.07   Streets without curb
   
73.08   Parking hours
   
73.09   Snow removal
   
73.10   Truck parking
   
73.11   Parking rules in city parking lots and ramps
   
73.12   Impounding and removing vehicles
   
73.13   Loading zones
   
73.14   Unattended vehicle
   
73.15   Vehicle repair on street
   
73.16   Parking for purpose of advertising or selling merchandise
   
73.17   Physically handicapped parking
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 PRESUMPTION.
   It is presumed that the owner or lessee of any vehicle parked in violation
of this title when the driver thereof is not present, parked the vehicle or
that the driver was acting as the agent of the owner or lessee.
(Prior Code, § 9.01)
§ 73.02 GENERAL PARKING PROHIBITIONS.
   It is unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a vehicle except when
necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with the
specific directions of a police officer or traffic control device in any of the
following places:
   (A)   On a sidewalk;
   (B)   In front of a public or private driveway;
   (C)   Within an intersection;
   (D)   Within 10 feet of a fire hydrant;
   (E)   On a crosswalk;
   (F)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at any intersection;
   (G)   In a sign-posted fire lane;
   (H)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign or
traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
   (I)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
   (J)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on the
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance when properly sign-posted;
   (K)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when the
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
   (L)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
   (M)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street;
   (N)   At any place where official signs prohibit or restrict stopping,
parking or both;
   (O)   In any alley, except for loading or unloading and then only so long as
reasonably necessary for the loading and unloading to or from adjacent
premises; or
   (P)   On any boulevard which has been curbed.
   (Q)   Upon any public property or street unless the vehicle has current
registration, is operable, and has insurance as required by Minnesota state
statute.
   (R)   Upon any outside, unfenced private property unless the vehicle had
current registration and is operable for a period of 30 days or more.
(Prior Code, § 9.02) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.03 RECREATIONAL CAMPING VEHICLE PARKING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply:
      (1)   LARGE RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Shall mean any of the following:
         (a)   CAMPING TRAILER. A folding structure mounted on wheels and
designed for travel, recreation and vacation uses.
         (b)   MOTOR HOME. A portable, temporary building to be used for
travel, recreation and vacation, constructed as an integral part of a self-
propelled vehicle.
         (c)   PICK-UP COACH. A structure designed to be mounted on a truck
chassis for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreation and vacation.
         (d)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A vehicular, portable structure built on a
chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational
and vacation uses.
         (e)   PARK TRAILER. A trailer that exceeds 8½ feet in width in travel
mode but is no larger than 400 square feet when the collapsible components are
fully extended or at maximum horizontal width and is used as temporary living
quarters.
      (2)   RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT. Ice fishing houses, utility trailers and
other equipment generally towed behind another vehicle used for non-commercial
purposes.
      (3)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES (RVs). Large recreational vehicles, small
recreational vehicles and watercraft.
      (4)   SMALL RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. Snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles,
off-road vehicles and motorcycles, golf carts and other vehicles or contrivance
primarily designed for or used in land based recreational activities.
      (5)   WATERCRAFT. Any contrivance used or designed for navigation on
water.
   (B)   A large recreational vehicle may not be left or parked on or within
the limits of any street or right-of-way for a continuous period in excess of
24 hours, except where signs are erected designating the place as a campsite or
in a mobile home park. Provided, however, that during the 24-hour period, the
vehicle shall not be occupied as living quarters. For the purpose of
enforcement of this section, any vehicle moved less than 1 block in a limited
parking zone shall be deemed to have remained stationary. (Prior Code § 9.03)
   (C)   (1)   During seasonal use, recreational vehicles or recreational
equipment may be located in residential districts on a surfaced driveway as
defined in § 154.02 as follows:
         (a)   Recreational vehicles and recreational equipment commonly used
in the winter may be parked or stored in residential districts on the driveway
from November 1st to April 1st of each year; and
         (b)   Recreational vehicles and recreational equipment commonly used
in the summer may be parked or stored in residential districts on the driveway
from April 1st to November 1st of each year.
      (2)   Provided that such parking or storage:
         (a)   Is located completely on the owner's property;
         (b)   Does not obstruct a sidewalk or trail;
         (c)   Does not protrude into the public right-of-way;
         (d)   Is not closer than 5 feet from any side lot line;
         (e)   Is limited to no more than 3 recreational vehicles per
residence; and
         (f)   Living quarters and businesses are not maintained in the
recreational vehicle or recreational equipment.
   (D)   Continued outside storage on any residential property of a combination
of no more than 3 recreational vehicles or recreational equipment is permitted
provided:
      (1)   The recreational vehicles or recreational equipment are located on
a parking area in a rear or side yard of the property which is constructed with
concrete, asphalt, concrete pavers, brick set in compacted sand, class 5
gravel, or other impervious or semi-impervious surface material that has been
approved by the City Council; and
      (2)   The recreational vehicles or recreational equipment are a minimum
of 5 feet from an interior lot line or rear lot line and at least 15 feet from
a street side lot line.
   (E)   No recreational vehicle or recreational equipment shall be parked or
stored within 30 feet of an intersection measured by a triangle described as
beginning at the intersection of the projected curb lines of the 2 intersecting
streets, then extending along each curb 30 feet with a diagonal line drawn
between those curb lines. This applies to recreational vehicles or recreational
equipment on public or private property in any zoning district.
   (F)   The requirements and provisions of this section are in addition to any
other provision in this Code related to storage and parking of vehicles.
Failing to comply with these parking regulations is a violation of this Code
and subject to the penalties in §
73.99.
   (G)   Exceptions to 3 vehicle limit:
      (1)   Golf carts permitted by the city for use by handicapped individuals
shall not count against the total number of recreational vehicles allowed to be
stored outside.
      (2)   Trailers stored that are used for commercial businesses and utility
trailers used at a residence to haul grass, leaves, yard waste, etc. provided
they are not used to haul recreational vehicles.
      (3)   Small recreational vehicles or recreational equipment stored on a
trailer shall count as 1 recreational vehicle for purposes of this section.
(Am. Ord. 2012-07, passed 9-17-2012) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 DIRECTION TO PROCEED.
   It is unlawful for any person to stop or park a vehicle on a street when
directed or ordered to proceed by any police officer invested by law with
authority to direct, control or regulate traffic.
(Prior Code, § 9.04) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 PARALLEL PARKING.
   Except where angle parking is specifically allowed and indicated by curb or
street marking or sign-posting, or all or any of them, each vehicle stopped or
parked upon a 2-way road where there is an adjacent curb shall be stopped or
parked with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle parallel with, and within 12
inches of, the right-hand curb, and, where painted markings appear on the curb
or the street, the vehicle shall be within the markings, front and rear;
provided that upon a 1-way roadway all vehicles shall be so parked, except that
the left-hand wheels of the vehicle may be parallel with and within 12 inches
from the left-hand curb, but the front of the vehicle in any event and with
respect to the remainder of the vehicle, shall be in the direction of the flow
of traffic upon the 1-way street; and it is unlawful to park in violation of
this section.
(Prior Code, § 9.05) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 ANGLE PARKING.
   Where angle parking has been established by Council resolution, and is
allowed, as shown by curb or street marking or sign-posting, or all or any of
them, each vehicle stopped or parked shall be at an angle of approximately 45
to 60 degrees with the front wheel touching the curb and within any parking
lines painted on the curb or street, provided that the front wheel not touching
the curb shall be the portion of the vehicle furthest in the direction of 1-way
traffic; and it is unlawful to park in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9.06) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.07 STREETS WITHOUT CURB.
   Upon streets not having a curb each vehicle shall be stopped or parked
parallel and to the right of the paving, improved or main traveled part of the
street; and it is unlawful to park in violation of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9.07) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.08 PARKING HOURS.
   Parking on streets shall be limited as follows:
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave standing any
vehicle upon any street for a continuous period in excess of 24 hours.
   (B)   The Public Works Director or the Chief of Police may, when authorized
by resolution of the Council, designate certain streets, blocks or portions of
streets or blocks as prohibited parking zones, or 5-minute, 10-minute, 15-
minute, 30-minute, 1-hour, 2-hour, 4-hour, 6-hour, 8-hour, morning or afternoon
rush hour limited parking zones and shall mark by appropriate signs any zones
so established. The zones shall be established whenever necessary for the
convenience of the public or to minimize traffic hazards and preserve a free
flow of traffic. It is unlawful for any person to stop, park or leave standing
any vehicle in a prohibited parking zone, for a period of time in excess of the
sign-posted limitation, or during sign-posted hours of prohibited parking.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any person to remove, erase or otherwise obliterate
any mark or sign placed upon a tire or other part of a vehicle by a police
officer for the purpose of measuring the length of time the vehicle has been
parked.
   (D)   For the purpose of enforcement of this section, any vehicle moved less
than 1 block in a limited time parking zone shall be deemed to have remained
stationary.
   (E)   Between November 1 and March 31 on First Street and Water Street only,
from Mill Street to Varner Street, between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m., parking shall only be allowed on an odd/even basis; on even-numbered days
vehicles may park on the even-numbered side of the street and on odd-numbered
days vehicles may park on the odd-numbered side of the street.
(Prior Code, § 9.08) (Am. Ord. 2018-18, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.09 SNOW REMOVAL.
   It is unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on any street after a
continuous or intermittent snowfall during which there has been an accumulation
of 1 inch or more of snow, or a Snow Emergency is declared, until all snow, ice
and similar debris has been plowed or removed from the paved portion of the
street. For purposes of this section the definition of street includes the city
owned parking lots. An exception is that on First Street and Water Street only,
from Mill Street to Varner Street, and in the Jordan City Hall parking lot,
parking shall be allowed on an odd/even basis; on even-numbered days vehicles
may park on the even-numbered side of the street and on odd-numbered days
vehicles may park on the odd-numbered side of the street.
(Ord. 2018-18, passed 11-5-2018) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.10 TRUCK PARKING.
   (A)   It is unlawful to park a semi with an attached trailer, or any other
commercial or recreational use trailer upon any public street, alley,
municipally-owned parking lot, or any other public property between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person owning or driving or in charge of any
commercial bus, truck, truck tractor, or tractor trailer combination which has
a registered gross vehicle weight in excess of 9,000 pounds or which is 19 feet
or more in length to cause, or permit to park, stop or leave the vehicle
standing with the motor running on any public:
      (1)   Street;
      (2)   Alley; or
      (3)   Other public property within any residential district.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) above shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any truck being used by a public utility;
      (2)   Any truck being used by a moving company, while it is actually
being used to service a residence;
      (3)   Any truck used in conjunction with an authorized construction site,
during the period that construction is actually taking place, including non-
working days and holidays;
      (4)   A truck or semi-tractor parked in the driveway of a residence for
less than 30 minutes with the motor running; or
      (5)   A semi tractor trailer combination that is legally parked in a zone
classified for industrial use so long as its proximity to a residential
district does not disturb any members of the public and it is in compliance
with the snow removal ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 9.10) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.11 PARKING RULES IN CITY PARKING LOTS AND RAMPS.
   In city-owned parking lots and ramps, the Council may limit the sizes and
types of motor vehicles to be parked thereon, hours of parking, and prescribed
method of parking, provided that such limitations and restrictions are marked
or sign-posted thereon. It is unlawful to park or leave standing any vehicle
backed into a parking place, to drive in a direction opposite the flow of
traffic marked by “1-way” signs or arrows, or to park any vehicle in any city-
owned parking lot or ramp contrary to the restrictions or limitations marked or
sign-posted therein.
(Prior Code, § 9.11)
§ 73.12 IMPOUNDING AND REMOVING VEHICLES.
   When any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a street or city-owned
parking lot in violation of any parking regulation, the officer is hereby
authorized to require the driver or other person in charge of the vehicle to
remove the same to a position in compliance with this chapter. When any police
officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any street or city-owned parking lot in
violation of any parking regulation, the officer is hereby authorized to
impound the unlawfully parked vehicle and to provide for the removal thereof in
compliance with M.S. § 168B.035, as amended, and to remove the same to a
convenient garage or other facility or place of safety; provided, that the cost
of removal or storage of the vehicle shall be paid by the vehicle owner prior
to removal from the place of storage or safekeeping.
(Prior Code, § 9.12)
§ 73.13 LOADING ZONES.
   The Council may, by resolution, establish loading zones to be used for the
specific purpose of loading or unloading merchandise from a commercial vehicle
or vehicle temporarily being utilized in the transport of merchandise. The
loading zones shall be installed by order of the city where in the judgment of
the Council a commercial loading zone is justified, and duly sign-posted.
(Prior Code, § 9.13)
§ 73.14 UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to leave a motor vehicle unattended
while the engine is running.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to leave a motor vehicle unattended with
the key in the ignition.
   (C)   Police, Fire, Ambulance, and other official emergency response
vehicles are exempt from (A) and (B) of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9.14) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.15 VEHICLE REPAIR ON STREET.
   It is unlawful for any person to service, repair, assemble or dismantle any
vehicle parked upon a street, or attempt to do so, except to service the
vehicle with gasoline or oil or to provide emergency repairs thereon, but in no
event for more than 24 hours.
(Prior Code, § 9.15) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.16 PARKING FOR PURPOSE OF ADVERTISING OR SELLING MERCHANDISE.
   It is unlawful for any person to park a vehicle on any street for the
purpose of advertising the vehicle for sale, for the purpose of advertising for
sale or selling merchandise, or advertising a forthcoming event.
(Prior Code, § 9.16) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.17 PHYSICALLY HANDICAPPED PARKING.
   (A)   Statutory parking privileges for physically handicapped shall be
strictly observed and enforced. Police officers are authorized to tag vehicles
parked on either private or public property in violation of the statutory
privileges.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person, whether or not physically handicapped,
to stop, park, or leave standing, a motor vehicle:
      (1)   In a sign-posted fire lane at any time; or
      (2)   In lanes where, and during such hours as, parking is prohibited to
accommodate heavy traffic during morning and afternoon rush hours.
(Prior Code, § 9.17) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any person whose actions are not in compliance with this chapter, upon
conviction, shall be punished as follows:
   (A)    Where a particular section or provision specifically makes violation
a misdemeanor, the offender shall be punished as for a misdemeanor; where a
violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger any person or property, the offender shall be punished as
for a misdemeanor; where a person is convicted of 3 or more violations of this
chapter, exclusive of violations relating to the standing or parking of an
unattended vehicle, within the immediately-preceding 12 month period, the
offender shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Any violation not constituting a misdemeanor under (A) above shall be
punished as for a petty misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 9.99)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
91.   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES; UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE CODE
      
94.   PARK REGULATIONS
      
95.   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITES
      
96.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: NUISANCES; HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Nuisances; Abatement
   
90.001   Definitions
   
90.002   Nuisances
   
90.003   Violations
   
90.004   Public nuisance inspections
   
90.005   Notice and order
   
90.006   Authority to abate and remediate
   
90.007   Additional requirements for clandestine drug labs and operations
   
90.008   Appeal procedure
   
90.009   Emergency abatement procedure
   
90.010   Vacant buildings
   
90.011   Hazardous or substandard buildings
   
90.012   Limitations on days and hours for construction activities
Grass, Weeds and Trees
   
90.025   Definition
   
90.026   City to control tree planting standards
   
90.027   Permit required
   
90.028   Duty of property owners to cut grass and weeds; maintain trees and
shrubs
   
90.029   City may order work done
   
90.030   City may trim all boulevard trees
Shade Tree Disease
   
90.045   Policy and purpose
   
90.046   Scope and adoption by reference
   
90.047   Definitions
   
90.048   Unlawful act
   
90.049   Inspection and diagnosis
   
90.050   Abatement of tree nuisance
   
90.051   Procedure for removal of infected trees and wood
   
90.052   Spraying trees
   
90.053   Transporting wood prohibited
   
90.054   Interference prohibited
   
90.055   Additional duties of Tree Inspector
   
90.056   Diseased trees in streets
   
90.057   Subsidies
Open Burning; Air Pollution Control
   
90.070   Minnesota Statutes adopted
   
90.071   Fire Warden
   
90.072   Exceptions
   
90.073   Special permits
   
90.074   Revocation of special permits
   
90.075   Reporting of fires
Open Area Storage
   
90.090   Purpose
   
90.091   Definitions
   
90.092   Other storage
   
90.093   Vehicle storage
   
90.094   Building materials
   
90.999   Penalty
NUISANCES; ABATEMENT
§ 90.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED BUILDING. Any building or portion of a building which has stood
with an incomplete exterior shell for longer than 1 year or any building or
portion thereof which has stood unoccupied for longer than 1 year which meets 1
or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Unsecured;
      (2)   Boarded;
      (3)   Having multiple exterior Housing Code or Building Code violations;
and/or
      (4)   Placarded as “Unfit for Human Habitation”.
   ABATEMENT. The proper removal, containment, cleanup, and/or remediation of a
nuisance. ABATEMENT may include, but shall not be limited to, removal,
cleaning, extermination, cutting, mowing, grading, sewer repairs, draining,
securing, boarding unoccupied structures, barricading or fencing, removing
dangerous portions of structures, and demolition of dangerous structures or
abandoned buildings.
   ABATEMENT DEADLINE. The date on which the nuisance must be abated by as
specified in a written order.
   CHEMICAL INVESTIGATION SITE. A drug lab site (such as a clandestine drug lab
site as defined in M.S. § 152.0275) that is under notice and order for cleanup
and/or remediation as a public health nuisance, as authorized by M.S. Ch. 145A
and/or this chapter.
   CHILD. Any person under the age of 18.
   CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB OR OPERATION. The unlawful manufacture or attempt to
manufacture a controlled substance within any area of a structure such as a
dwelling, building, motor vehicle, trailer, boat, or other structure or
appliance, as determined by a licensed law enforcement officer.
   CLEANUP. The proper removal and/or containment of substances or materials
hazardous to humans and/or the environment. Cleanup can also be referred to as
abatement and is part of remediation.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES. A drug, substance or immediate precursor in Schedules
I through V of M.S. § 152.02. The term shall not include distilled spirits,
wine, malt beverages, intoxicating liquors, or tobacco.
   DANGEROUS STRUCTURE. Any structure which is potentially dangerous to persons
or property including but not limited to:
      (1)   A structure which is in danger of partial or complete collapse;
      (2)   A structure which has any exterior parts such as chimneys, eaves,
porches, siding, railings, or trim which are loose or in danger of falling; or
      (3)   A structure which has any parts such as porches, stairs, ramps,
rails, balconies, or roofs which are accessible and which are either collapsed,
in danger of collapsing, or unable to support a person.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The Director of the Department of Public Works, the
Building Inspector, the Fire Chief, the Chief of Police, or their duly
authorized representative designated by the City Administrator to determine if
a nuisance exists and administer Chapter 90 of this code. The city further
authorizes the Scott County Public Health Authority to undertake the
responsibilities of enforcing the public nuisance provisions of this Code when
investigating a public health nuisance located in the city.
   EXTERMINATION. The eradication of rodents or other vermin by any or all
approved methods such as poisoning, fumigation, or trapping.
   FIREWOOD. Firewood, split wood or unsplit wood logs cut into lengths not
exceeding three feet for the purpose of burning for a fireplace or a
recreational fire on the real property. FIREWOOD shall not include milled or
prepared lumber.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Any waste material so defined by M.S. § 116.06, or
described or listed as hazardous waste in Minn. Rules Chapter 7045.
   INTERESTED PARTY. Any owner of record, occupying tenant, or lien holder of
record.
   LAST KNOWN ADDRESS. The address shown on the records of the Scott County
Department of Property Taxation or a more recent address known to the
enforcement officer. In the case of parties not listed in these records, the
last known address shall be that address obtained by the enforcement officer
after a reasonable search.
   MAIL. Depositing the item with the United States Postal Service addressed to
the intended recipient at his or her last known address with first class
postage prepaid thereon.
   NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES. Substances, solid or fluid, which are offensive,
detrimental to health, hurtful, or dangerous. Noxious substances shall include
but not be limited to any dead animal, or portion thereof, putrid carcass,
decayed animal matter, green hides, or any putrid, spoiled, foul, or stinking
meat, poultry, fish, offal, hides, skins, fat, grease, liquors, human or animal
excrement, or manure.
   OCCUPANT. A natural or legal person who occupies real property, whether with
or without any right, title or interest in the property, or who is in
possession or charge of such property, in the event the property owner resides
or is located elsewhere.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, partnership or corporation who owns, in whole or in
part, real property, a structure and/or fixtures, or is the purchaser of the
property under a contract for deed or owns personal property such as a motor
vehicle, trailer, boat or other appliance.
   PERSONAL PROPERTY. All property other than real property or structures
located on real property.
   PERSONAL SERVICE. Service by personally handing a copy to the intended
recipient or by leaving a copy at the intended recipient’s residence or place
of business with a person of suitable age and discretion.
   PRIVY. Any type of no-flush fixture for the receipt and storage of human
waste including fixed units with vaults as well as portable units.
   PROPERTY. Publicly or privately owned real or personal property, including
buildings and other structures, and motor vehicles as defined in M.S. §
609.487, Subd. 2a, as amended in the future.
   PROPERTY AGENT OR AGENT. A legal or natural person authorized by an owner to
act in transacting business matters or in managing the property.
   PUBLIC HEALTH HAZARD OR PUBLIC HEALTH INSURANCE. Any activity or failure to
act that adversely affects the public health, and shall include, but not be
limited to, any condition that poses an immediate and direct hazard to human
health if left unremediated due to the existence of the condition itself, or
due to the immediate threat of transmission of disease through insects, animals
or other means for the transmission of infection.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any parcel of land whether vacant or not, whether any
structure thereon is occupied or not, or whether submerged or not.
   REFUSE. Putrescible or non-putrescible and combustible or non-combustible
waste, including paper, garbage, material resulting from the handling,
processing, preparation, cooking, storage, serving and consumption of food,
vegetable or animal matter, offal, rubbish, plant wastes such as tree trimmings
or grass cuttings, ashes, incinerator residue, street cleanings, construction
debris, detached vehicle parts, and solid industrial and market wastes.
   REMEDIATION. Methods employed in dealing with public health nuisances and
include, but are not limited to, assessment, evaluation, testing, venting,
detergent scrubbing, enclosure, encapsulation, demolition, and/or removal of
materials.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any 1 or more of the following:
      (1)   An owner;
      (2)   Agent;
      (3)   Assignee or collector of rents;
      (4)   Holder of a contract for deed;
      (5)   A mortgagee or vendee in possession;
      (6)   Receiver or executor or trustee;
      (7)   Lessee;
      (8)   Those listed as owners on a vacant building registration form
submitted to the Building Inspector under the City Code; and
      (9)   Other person, firm, or corporation exercising apparent control over
a property, including occupants.
   STRUCTURE. A dwelling, building, motor vehicle, trailer, boat, or any other
area or location, fixed or temporary, indoors or outdoors.
   UNOCCUPIED. A building which is not being used for a legal occupancy or a
building which has been ordered vacated by the city.
   UNSECURED. Open to entry by unauthorized persons without the use of tools or
ladders.
   VULNERABLE ADULT. Shall have the meaning set out in M.S. § 626.5572, Subd.
1, as amended in the future.
(Prior Code, § 10.01) (Am. Ord. 2008-005, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2020-06,
passed 10-19-2020)
§ 90.002 NUISANCES.
   (A)   The creation or maintenance of a public nuisance is prohibited. A
public nuisance shall mean:
      (1)   Any act or failure to perform a legal duty that results in the
maintaining or permitting of a condition which unreasonably annoys, injures, or
endangers the safety, morals, comfort or repose of any considerable number of
members of the public;
      (2)   Any public health hazard/public health nuisance;
      (3)   Any thing or condition which creates a dangerous condition;
      (4)   Any thing or condition that threatens the public peace, safety, or
sanitary condition of the city;
      (5)   Any act or failure to perform a legal duty that interferes with,
obstructs, or renders dangerous for passage, any public highway or right-of-
way, or waters used by the public;
      (6)   Any thing or condition that is offensive or has a blighting
influence on the community and which is found upon, in, being discharged or
flowing from any street, alley, highway, railroad right-of-way, vehicle,
railroad car, water, excavation, building, erection, lot, grounds, or other
real or personal property located within the city; and
      (7)   Any act or omission declared by law to be a public nuisance and for
which no sentence is specifically provided.
   (B)   Public nuisances shall include, but not be limited to, those set forth
in this section.
      (1)   Refuse, noxious substances, hazardous wastes. Refuse, noxious
substances, or hazardous waste that is not properly contained in a closed,
insect- and rodent-proof container designed or reasonably adapted for such
purposes, or is laying, pooled, accumulated, piled, left, deposited, buried, or
discharged upon, in, being discharged or flowing from any real or personal
property; except for:
         (a)   Refuse deposited at places designated and provided for that
purpose by the City Code; or
         (b)   Refuse stored in accordance with provisions of the City Code or
vehicle parts stored in an enclosed structure.
      (2)   Firewood. Stacks of firewood in excess of 6 cords, stacks of
firewood higher than 6 feet from ground level to the highest point of
elevation, or stacks of firewood stored within the required setback.
      (3)   Stagnant water. Water standing on real property and/or allowed to
accumulate in or on any personal property, which ceases to flow away from the
property. STAGNANT WATER does not include holding areas and ponds and
detention/retention ponds or basins permitted or required by the City Code.
      (4)   Sanitary defects. Any structure or real property that has become
dangerous for further occupancy in the opinion of the enforcement officer,
which may include, but is not limited to: accumulation of human or animal
feces, evidence of garbage and rotting food, infestation or harborage or
breeding of vermin, rodents or insects, environmental conditions that affect
children and vulnerable adults, and lack of approved potable water supply or
sewage disposal.
      (5)   Vermin infestations and harborage. Infestations and/or harborage of
vermin such as rats, mice, skunks, snakes, bats, grackles, starlings, pigeons,
bees, wasps, cockroaches, lice, ticks, fleas, flies, fly larvae and hookworm
larvae, except for bees or pigeons kept with written permission from, and in
accordance with the City Code and the regulations of the Division of Public
Health.
      (6)   Carcasses. Accumulation of carcasses of animals, birds or fish by
failing to bury or otherwise dispose of a carcass in a sanitary manner within
72 hours after death. This provision shall not apply if the animals, birds, or
fish are intended for human consumption.
      (7)   Decaying matter. Accumulation of decayed animal or vegetable
matter, animal or human feces, trash, rubbish, garbage, tires or any other
substances in which flies, mosquitoes, other disease-carrying insects, rodents
or other vermin can harbor: this definition does not include compost bins or
compost sites that are being managed in accordance with acceptable standards.
      (8)   Mosquito breeding grounds. Unnatural breeding grounds that support
mosquito larvae and mosquitoes carrying West Nile Virus, LaCrosse encephalitis,
or any other disease-causing microorganisms.
      (9)   Sanitary structures. Structures for sanitation, such as privies,
vaults, sewers, private drains, septic tanks, cesspools, drain fields, which
have failed or do not function properly, or which are overflowing, leaking, or
emanating odors. Septic tanks, cesspools, cisterns which are abandoned or no
longer in use unless they are empty and filled with clean fill. Any vault,
cesspool, or septic tank which does not meet the following criteria:
         (a)   The bottom and sides are cemented to make impervious to water;
         (b)   The bottom is at least 6 feet below grade;
         (c)   Proper ventilating pipes and covers are provided;
         (d)   It is located at least 20 feet from any house, residence,
building, or public street;
         (e)   It is cleaned at least once a year; and
         (f)   The real property served is located such that connection to the
public sewer is impractical.
      (10)   Manure vaults. Manure vaults which have become offensive. Manure
vaults for stables where more than 2 animals are kept which are not cleaned
twice in each week.
      (11)   Unsecured unoccupied buildings. Unoccupied buildings or unoccupied
portions of buildings which are unsecured.
      (12)   Dangerous structures. Dangerous structures, whether or not
registered pursuant to the City Code.
      (13)   Abandoned buildings. Abandoned buildings, whether or not
registered pursuant to the City Code.
      (14)   Hazards. 
         (a)   Any thing or condition on property which, in the opinion of the
enforcement officer, may contribute to injury of any person present on or near
the property.
         (b)   Hazards shall include, but not be limited to, open holes, open
foundations, open wells, improperly abandoned cistern, unused or non-maintained
private swimming pool, mine shaft or tunnel, dangerous trees or limbs,
abandoned refrigerators, or dangerous animal trapping devices.
            1.   Animal trapping devices such as live traps may be utilized,
but shall be designed to be non-lethal, humane, and safe to the general public.
            2.   Under no circumstances may conibear-type, body-gripping or
steel-jaw leg-hold traps be used anywhere in the city, except when deemed
necessary for public safety by the Chief of Police in coordination with the
Animal Control Officer.
      (15)   Fire hazards. Any thing or condition on property which, in the
opinion of the enforcement officer, creates a fire hazard or which is a
violation of the Fire Code.
      (16)   Health hazards. Any thing or condition on or in property which, in
the opinion of the enforcement officer, creates a health hazard or which is a
violation of any health or sanitation law, including but not limited to, a
chemical investigation site and/or clandestine drug lab or operation.
      (17)   Statute and common law nuisances. Any thing or condition on or in
real or personal property which is known at common law, Minnesota Statutes, or
the City Code as a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 10.01) (Am. Ord. 2008-005, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2009-011,
passed 8-3-2009; Am. Ord. 2020-06, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 90.003 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to create or maintain a public nuisance
as defined in §
90.002 herein, by his or her act or failure to perform a legal duty.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to permit property under his or her
control to be used to create or maintain a public nuisance as defined in §
90.002 herein, or let the same to another knowing it is to be so used.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any owner of any truck, trailer, railroad car or
flat, or other vehicle to leave the vehicle standing on or along any street,
highway, freeway, or railroad track, or other real property within the city
carrying or containing any refuse, noxious substance, or hazardous waste,
except as otherwise permitted in the City Code.
(Prior Code, § 10.01) (Am. Ord. 2020-06, passed 10-19-2020) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.004 PUBLIC NUISANCE INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The owner, occupant or property agent may, upon the request of the
enforcement officer and after proper identification, permit access to all parts
of the property as often as necessary, and at any reasonable time for the
purpose of inspection and may exhibit and allow copying of any and all records
necessary to ascertain compliance with this chapter. If the owner, occupant or
property agent refuses consent to an enforcement officer's entry or access to
property for purposes of enforcement of this chapter of the City Code, the
enforcement officer is authorized to take the necessary steps to obtain a
warrant or other order from the court authorizing entry and/or access.
   (B)   If the city is notified of a public nuisance concern or complaint, it
shall be authorized to investigate to determine if a public nuisance exists.
Notifications and complaints may be received from law enforcement, city staff,
State or County government agency staff, the public, or any other party deemed
to have sufficient information regarding the situation. The enforcement officer
shall have discretion to determine if a complaint provides a sufficient basis
to investigate a situation as a public nuisance.
   (C)   Upon the request of the enforcement officer, a responsible party or
owner may disclose the name of any other responsible party or owner known to
him or her. This shall include but not be limited to the persons for whom he or
she is acting, from whom he or she is leasing the property, to whom he or she
is leasing the property, with whom he or she shares joint ownership, or with
whom he or she has any conveyancing contract.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 90.005 NOTICE AND ORDER.
   (A)   In the event that an enforcement officer observes a person creating,
maintaining or permitting a public nuisance, the officer may, after presenting
proper identification, verbally order that the person cease creating,
maintaining and/or permitting a nuisance. If after receiving a concern or
complaint and completing an investigation, the enforcement officer determines a
public nuisance exists, a notice and order shall be issued requiring the owner,
occupant and/or property agent (individually or jointly) to abate and/or
remediate the public nuisance.
   (B)   Contents of notice and order.  The city shall include the following as
part of notice and order:
      (1)   Property location by street address, property identification
number, or other property description.
      (2)   Information identifying the nature of the public nuisance on or in
the property.
      (3)   A summary of the owner's and occupant's responsibilities under
state law and/or this chapter.
      (4)   Specific orders of abatement and/or remediation of the public
nuisance.
      (5)   Completion dates for abatement and remediation, as prescribed by §
90.006(A) herein.
      (6)   Notice that unless the public nuisance is abated and/or remediated
in accordance with the terms of the order or appealed by the completion date
designated in the order, the city will have the nuisance abated and remediated
at the expense of the owner under the provisions of M.S. § 145A.08, M.S. Ch.
463, this chapter, or other applicable state or local law and assess the costs
against the real property where applicable as a special assessment to be
collected in the same manner as property taxes.
      (7)   Notice of a right to appeal the order by submitting a written
request with the City Administrator before the abatement/remediation completion
date set forth in the order.
      (8)   An order that the property may not be occupied or used until the
public health nuisance is assessed and remediated by an approved contractor
when a public health nuisance exists and where the public health nuisance
includes a chemical investigation site or a clandestine drug lab or operation
contaminated by substances, chemicals, or items used in the manufacture of
methamphetamine or any part of the manufacturing of methamphetamine or any part
of the manufacturing process, the by-products or degradants of manufacturing or
other public nuisances including hazardous waste, solid waste, rodents, vermin,
disease-carrying insects or other unsanitary conditions.
      (9)   When applicable, a copy of the chemical investigation site public
health nuisance warning sign that is posted at the site's entrance(s).
   (C)   Service.
      (1)   The notice and order for abatement and/or remediation shall be
served on the owner, occupant, or property agent, if applicable, in one of the
following ways:
         (a)   By certified mail, return receipt requested;
         (b)   By an officer authorized to serve a warrant; or
         (c)   By a person aged 18 years or older who is not reasonably
believed to be a party to any action arising from the notice.
      (2)   If the owner of real property is unknown or absent and has no known
representative upon whom notice can be served, an enforcement officer shall
post a written or printed notice on the real property, stating that, unless the
nuisance is abated or appealed within 10 days, the city will have the public
nuisance abated at the expense of the owner under M.S. § 145A.08, M.S. Ch. 463,
this chapter, or other applicable state or local law.
      (3)   Where it is determined that a child neglect, child endangerment or
vulnerable adult situation may exist as a result of a public health nuisance,
the enforcement officer shall notify the Scott County divisions responsible for
responding to potential child neglect, child endangerment or vulnerable adult
situations. The notice should include the following:
         (a)   Real property location by street address;
         (b)   Owner's and occupant's identities known to be associated with
the real property;
         (c)   Conditions found that make this home or residence a public
health nuisance; and
         (d)   Any other conditions that may be associated with the real
property that could present harmful conditions as determined by state law.
   (D)   The enforcement officer may leave a posted warning sign at a public
health nuisance site. It shall be unlawful for any person, except for
authorized city personnel, to remove this sign once posted. Any person, other
than an enforcement officer, who willfully removes a warning sign may be
charged with a misdemeanor interference with performance of duties pursuant to
M.S. § 145A.04, Subd. 10.
   (E)   Notice to public.  When an order requires, exclusively or as an
option, the demolition of a building, the public shall be put on notice as
follows:
      (1)   A copy of the order shall be placed on file in the office of the
City Administrator.
      (2)   The enforcement officer shall notify the Council of each parcel of
real property subject to a demolition order as follows: Each month the
enforcement officer shall send to the Council a list of the real properties
that have become subject to a demolition order. The list shall be in the form
of a resolution declaring that an enforcement action has been commenced and
that as a result of the public nuisance status of a building on the real
property an order has been issued detailing the violations and requiring,
exclusively or as an option, that the building be demolished and that a copy of
this order is on file in the office of the City Administrator.
   (F)   Recording. Where a public health nuisance includes a chemical
investigation site or a clandestine drug lab or operation contaminated by
substances, chemicals, or items used in the manufacture of methamphetamine or
any part of the manufacturing of methamphetamine or any part of the
manufacturing process, the by-products or degradants of manufacturing or other
public nuisances including hazardous waste, solid waste, rodents, vermin,
disease-carrying insects or other unsanitary conditions, the city shall:
      (1)   Record an affidavit with the County Recorder Office for Scott
County, Minnesota as required by M.S. § 152.0275, Subd. 2(h) if the affected
property is real property.
      (2)   Notify the registrar of motor vehicles as required by M.S. §
152.0275, Subd. 2(g) if the affected property is a motor vehicle, boat, or
trailer.
   (G)   Chemical investigation site property owner's and occupant's additional
responsibilities.
      (1)   Property owner(s) and occupant(s) provided with notice, which also
includes the posted warning sign informing them of the chemical investigation
site public health nuisance, shall promptly act to vacate occupants and animals
from those parts of a structure that are a chemical investigation site or other
public health nuisance. This includes dwellings, buildings, motor vehicles,
trailers, boat, appliances or any other affected area or location.
      (2)   Property owner(s) and occupant(s) shall contract with one or more
approved remediation, environmental hazard testing and cleaning firms on the
Minnesota Department of Health's list that will verify work is completed
according to the Minnesota Department of Health's Clandestine Drug Labs General
Cleanup Guidelines (in coordination with the Minnesota Pollution Control
Agency) and best practices, to accomplish ordered work which may include, but
is not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A detailed on-site assessment of the extent of contamination at
the site and the contamination of the personal property therein. This includes
dwellings, buildings, motor vehicles, trailers, boats, appliances or any other
affected area or location.
         (b)   Soil testing of the site and testing of all property and soil in
proximity to the site that the environmental hazard testing and cleaning firm
determines may have been affected by the conditions found at the site including
testing the well and septic system.
         (c)   A complete cleanup of the site (including, but not limited to,
the cleanup or removal of contaminated plumbing, ventilation systems, fixtures
and soil, well and septic system), or a demolition of the site and a complete
cleanup of the demolished site including abandonment of the well and septic
system if necessary.
         (d)   A complete cleanup, or disposal at an approved dumpsite, of all
personal property in the site.
         (e)   A complete cleanup of all property and soil in proximity to the
site that is found to have been affected by the conditions found at the site.
         (f)   Remediation testing and follow-up testing to determine that all
health risks are sufficiently reduced, according to Minnesota Department of
Health and Minnesota Pollution Control Agency guidelines, to allow safe human
occupancy and use of the site, and use of the personal property therein.
      (3)   Property owner(s) and occupant(s) shall provide both local law
enforcement and the Scott County Public Health Authority with the identity of
the professional remediation firm the owner, occupant or property agent has
contracted with for remediation of the structure(s) as described above.
      (4)   Property owner(s) and occupant(s) shall provide both local law
enforcement and the Scott County Public Health Authority with the selected
contractor's plan and schedule for remediation that will satisfy the abatement
and remediation order(s).
      (5)   The property owner(s) and occupant(s) may request an extension of
time for the abatement and remediation completion date(s) set forth in the
order to consider options for arranging cleanup or removal of the affected
parts of the property. The owner(s) or occupant(s) must show good cause for any
such extension. Any such extension shall be dependent on the assurances of the
owner(s) that the affected parts of the property will not be occupied pending
appropriate cleanup or demolition.
   (H)   Modification and removal.
      (1)   The city may modify conditions of an abatement and remediation
order, including timelines, and may order removal of a declaration of a public
health nuisance.
      (2)   Such modification or removal shall be only after the city has
determined the public nuisance is sufficiently reduced or abated through
remediation to warrant modification or removal of the declaration in the notice
and order. The city may rely on information from competent sources, including
those supplied by the property owner(s) and others, including but not limited
to state and local health, safety, law enforcement and pollution control
authorities, to reach such decisions.
      (3)   If notice of a public health nuisance was filed with the County
Recorder Office for Scott County, Minnesota, notice that the declaration in the
order or the order itself has been removed shall be forwarded to the County
Recorder Office for Scott County, Minnesota for addition to the property
record.
      (4)   If notice of a public health nuisance was filed with the state
registrar, notice that the declaration in the order or the order itself has
been removed shall be provided to the motor vehicle or other license records
agencies and lien holders.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 90.006 AUTHORITY TO ABATE AND REMEDIATE.
   (A)   Owner abatement and remediation. It shall be the primary
responsibility of a property owner or occupant to abate any public nuisance
that exists on or in the owner's or occupant's property. Unless an emergency
abatement or remediation occurs at the direction of the city, the owner,
occupant, and/or property agent shall abate and remediate the public nuisance
by the completion date(s) set forth in the notice and order. Completion dates
for abatement and remediation shall be set as follows unless a shorter time is
required due to the enforcement officer's determination that a quicker
abatement is necessary to protect public health and safety (in such cases, the
reasons for a shortened abatement period shall be specified):
      (1)   A date at least 30 days from service of the notice and order upon
the owner(s), occupant(s), or agent of the property where a public nuisance
exists.
      (2)   A date no longer than 10 days from service of the notice and order
upon the owner(s), occupant(s), or agents of the property where a public health
nuisance exists.
   (B)   Public health nuisance handling.  Waste generated through cleanup or
remediation of a site that is considered a public health nuisance shall be
treated, stored, transported and disposed in accordance with applicable
Minnesota Department of Health, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, Scott
County and City of Jordan guidelines, rules and regulations for remediation of
a chemical investigation site and/or clandestine drug lab or operation, for
solid waste, and for hazardous household/other hazardous wastes.
   (C)   City abatement and remediation. The city is authorized to abate and/or
remediate public nuisances in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
section upon expiration of the time provided in the notice and order.
      (1)   The city shall be authorized to contract services of a third party
to abate any public nuisance on a property when the property owner, occupant or
property agent has provided written consent.
      (2)   If written consent is not provided, the city may proceed with any
legal remedies available to cause the abatement of the declared public
nuisance.
      (3)   The City Administrator, or his/her designee, shall be fully
authorized to direct funds to assure prompt abatement and remediation of public
nuisances.
   (D)   Cost of abatement and remediation to be assessed. Abatement and
remediation costs shall include the cost of the abatement and/or remediation,
including but not limited to personnel costs and equipment costs and
depreciation; the cost of investigation and verification, such as title
searches, inspection, assessment, evaluation, and testing; the cost of
contractors, venting, detergent scrubbing, enclosure, encapsulation,
demolition, and/or removal of materials; the cost of notifications, postings,
and vacating and securing the site; filing costs; legal costs, including
attorney fees; and administrative costs, including fees for Council meetings
and expenses related to the recovery of costs, including the assessment
process. All costs incurred shall be charged against the real property as a
special assessment to be collected in the manner provided for in M.S. Chapter
429.
   (E)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to limit the rights of the
property owner(s), agent(s), occupant(s), or the enforcing government agency,
including the city, to recover costs or damages from persons contributing to
the damage or condition created by the public nuisance, such as operators of a
clandestine drug lab site.
(Prior Code, § 10.01) (Am. Ord. 2020-06, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 90.007 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR CLANDESTINE DRUG LABS AND OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Notifications.  Law enforcement officers, who identify and confirm a
clandestine drug lab or operation, shall notify the Scott County Public Health
Authority and the Scott County department responsible for child protection and
vulnerable adults within one business day of identifying and confirming the lab
or operation location.
   (B)   Disposal. Upon identification of a clandestine drug lab or operation,
law enforcement agencies may treat, store, transport or dispose of all
hazardous material or hazardous waste found at the site in a manner consistent
with Minnesota Department of Health, Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, and
Scott County rules and regulations, including but not limited to Scott County
Ordinance 12, Hazardous Waste Management.
   (C)   Securing affected areas.  The law enforcement agency responding to the
clandestine drub lab or operation shall install locks on all entry doors of the
affected area of a structure(s) after all occupants and animals have vacated
the site.
   (D)   Warning sign. When the responding law enforcement agency completes its
work and is prepared to leave such sites, the agency shall affix a warning sign
to all entrances of the affected part of the structure or in a conspicuous
place(s) on bare land.
      (1)   The warning sign shall be consistent with those deemed appropriate
by local law enforcement and Scott County law enforcement. The warning sign
shall alert visitors or returning occupants that the site is a chemical
investigation site public health nuisance, may be dangerous to enter, and must
not be entered.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person, except authorized Scott County
personnel, to remove a chemical investigation site public health nuisance
warning sign from the posted property. Any person, other than a representative
of the Scott County Public Health Authority, who willfully removes a warning
sign may be charged with misdemeanor interference with performance and duties
pursuant to M.S. § 145A.04, subd. 10.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 90.008 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Appeal. Anyone who receives a notice and order shall have the ability
to appeal the order to the City Council by filing a written request to the City
Administrator on or before the abatement/remediation completion date identified
in the order.
   (B)   Hearing date. In the event that an appeal is filed with the City
Administrator, the Council shall within 3 weeks fix a date for a public
hearing.
   (C)   Notice.  The City Administrator, or his/her designee, shall mail a
notice of the date, time, place, and subject of the hearing to the owner and
known responsible parties. The City Administrator shall also notify the
enforcement officer issuing the order.
   (D)   Hearing.  At the time of the public hearing, the Council shall hear
from the enforcement officer, and any other parties who wish to be heard. After
the hearing, the Council may confirm or modify the order of the enforcement
officer. In either case, if the Council's determination requires abatement, the
Council shall, in the resolution, fix a time within which the public nuisance
must be abated and shall provide that if corrective action is not taken within
the time specified, the city may abate the public nuisance. The City
Administrator or his/her designee shall mail a copy of this resolution to same
parties required to be notified in division (C) above.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 90.009 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Authority. When the enforcement officer determines that a public
nuisance exists on a parcel of real property and the public nuisance
constitutes an immediate danger or hazard which if not immediately abated will
endanger the health or safety of the public and there does not exist sufficient
time to follow the procedures described herein, the city may abate the public
nuisance.
   (B)   Order by City Administrator or designee. The city shall order
emergency abatement by an administrative order to be signed by the City
Administrator or their designee. A good faith effort shall be made to inform
the owner that the action is being taken.
   (C)   Notice of the abatement. Following an emergency abatement, as soon as
the costs incurred are known to the City Administrator, the City Administrator
shall serve written notice upon the property owner. The notice shall contain:
      (1)   A description of the property sufficient for identification;
      (2)   The location and description of the public nuisance;
      (3)   The remedial action taken by the city;
      (4)   The reasons for immediate action;
      (5)   The costs incurred in abating the public nuisance; and
      (6)   A statement that the property owner may request, by writing to the
City Administrator within 20 calendar days of the date of the notice, a hearing
at which the Council shall review the actions taken by the city.
   (D)   Setting hearing date. In the event that a property owner files a
request for a review of the action with the City Administrator, the Council
shall within 3 weeks fix a date for a public hearing.
   (E)   Notice. The City Administrator shall notify the enforcement officer
and the property owner of the date, time, place and subject of the public
hearing.
   (F)   Hearing. At the time of the public hearing, the Council shall hear
from the enforcement officer and any other parties who wish to be heard. After
the hearing, the Council may adopt a resolution levying an assessment for all
or a portion of the costs incurred by the city in abating the nuisance. The
City Administrator shall give a copy of the resolution to the enforcement
officer and shall mail a copy to the property owner.
(Prior Code, § 10.01) (Am. Ord. 2020-06, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 90.010 VACANT BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Order.
      (1)   If a building within the city becomes vacant or unoccupied and is
deemed hazardous due to the fact that the building is open to trespass and has
not been secured and the building could be made safe by securing the building,
pursuant to M.S. § 463.251, the Council in its discretion, may order the
building secured. SECURE may include, but is not limited to, installing locks,
repairing windows  and doors, boarding windows and doors, posting “no-
trespassing” signs, installing exterior lighting or motion-detecting lights,
fencing the real property, and installing a monitored alarm or other security
system.
      (2)   Subject to division (E) of this section, the city will only secure
a vacant building if the Council adopts a resolution (a) finding the building
is: vacant and unoccupied, hazardous due to the fact it is open to trespass and
has not been secured, and could be made safe by securing it; and (b) ordering
the building be secured. During the meeting at which the Council considers
adopting such a resolution, the individual property shall not be referred to by
its specific address to avoid encouraging vandalism of the real property.
   (B)   Notice. The Council shall cause notice of the order to be served upon
the owner of record of the premises or the owner’s agent, the taxpayer
identified in the property tax records for that parcel, the holder of the
mortgage or sheriff’s certificate, and any neighborhood association for the
neighborhood in which the building is located that has requested notice, by
delivering or mailing a copy to the owner or agent, the identified taxpayer,
the holder of the mortgage or sheriff’s certificate, and the neighborhood
association, at the last known address. Service by mail is complete upon
mailing.
      (1)   The notice shall include a statement that:
         (a)   Informs the property owner and the holder of any mortgage or
sheriff’s certificate of the requirements of M.S. § 463.251 and that costs may
be assessed against the real property if they do not secure the building or
structure;
         (b)   Informs the property owner and the holder of any mortgage or
sheriff’s certificate that the person requesting a hearing before the Council
challenging the determination that the property is vacant or unoccupied or
hazardous; and
         (c)   Notifies the holder of any sheriff’s certificate of the holder’s
duty under M.S. § 582.031 to enter the premises to protect the premises from
waste and trespass if the order is not challenged or set aside and there is
prima facie evidence of abandonment of the property.
   (C)   Right of entry. If the owner of the building fails to either comply or
provide to the city a reasonable plan and schedule to comply with an order
issued under division (A) of this section within 6 days after the order is
served, the Council shall cause the building to be properly secured. City staff
or agents may enter upon private property at reasonable hours to secure the
building after having provided the notice described in division (B) of this
section. The cost of securing the building may be assessed against the real
property pursuant to division (D) of this section.
   (D)   Lien upon property. The cost of securing the building may be charged
against the real property using the process described in M.S. § 463.21. The
city may work with neighborhood associations to develop and implement plans to
secure vacant buildings in a timely and cost-effective fashion. The city may
use rehabilitation and revitalization funds in implementing this section.
   (E)   Emergency securing. If a building becomes vacant or unoccupied and is
deemed by the City Administrator or designee to present an immediate danger to
the health and safety of persons in the community, the City Administrator or
designee may order the building be immediately secured without following the
procedure described in divisions (A) and (B) of this section. The cost of
securing the building may be assessed against the real property pursuant to
division (D) of this section.
(Ord. 2008-006, passed 11-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2020-06, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 90.011 HAZARDOUS OR SUBSTANDARD BUILDINGS.
   If the city determines that removal and disposal of a structure or part
thereof located on real property is appropriate, the City Administrator, or his
or her designee, shall notify the property owner(s), occupying tenants, and all
lienholders of record of the city's intent, and with their consent, may
proceed. If consent is not received, the city shall obtain a judgment in
accordance with M.S. Ch. 463 authorizing it to carry out the removal and
disposal of the property. The Council may adopt a resolution levying an
assessment for all or a portion of the costs incurred by the city in abating
the public nuisance. The City Administrator shall give a copy of the resolution
to the enforcement officer and shall mail a copy to the property owner(s),
occupying tenants, and all lienholders of record. Nothing in this section shall
limit the city's right to enforce a judgment obtained in accordance with M.S.
Ch. 463 in the manner prescribed by M.S. Ch. 463.
(Ord. 2020-06, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 90.012 LIMITATIONS ON DAYS AND HOURS FOR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any developer or construction company to engage in
or permit construction activities involving the use of any kind of electric,
diesel, or gas-powered machine or other power equipment except between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., on any weekday or between the hours of 8:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m., on any weekend or holiday. CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES shall
expressly include:
      (1)   Excavation, grading, or any type of earth-moving activity;
      (2)   The creation, maintenance, or repair of a structure which requires
any kind of building permit;
      (3)   The fueling, delivery, unloading or loading, relocating of
equipment of material associated with these construction activities; and
      (4)   Street, sidewalk, trail, and any utility construction.
   (B)   The City Administrator or his or her designee may permit different
hours for construction activities upon receipt of a timely application (1)
demonstrating significant, actual necessity, (2) the specific location of the
construction activities and (3) the specific requested additional hours.
   (C)   Civil penalty for violations.
      (1)   First violation in any 12-month period: written warning.
      (2)   Second violation in any 24-month period: $250.
      (3)   Third and subsequent violations in any 24-month period: $500.
(Ord. 2018-08, passed 7-18-2018)
GRASS, WEEDS AND TREES
§ 90.025 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEEDS. Useless and troublesome plants commonly known as weeds including but
not limited to noxious weeds, such as cockleburr, burdock, tumble mustard, wild
mustard, wild oats, Canadian thistle, oxeye daisy, quack grass, Frenchweed, and
Russian thistle.
(Prior Code, § 10.03) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 90.026 CITY TO CONTROL TREE PLANTING STANDARDS.
   The city shall have control and supervision of planting shrubs and trees
upon, or overhanging, all the streets or other public property. The city may
establish and enforce uniform standards relating to the kinds and types of
trees to be planted and the placement thereof. Such standards shall be kept on
file in the office of the Public Works Director and may be revised from time to
time by action of the Council upon the recommendation of the Public Works
Director.
(Prior Code, § 10.03) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 90.027 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to plant, spray, trim or remove trees or other
plants which are upon city property, including rights-of-way, without first
procuring a written permit to do so from the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.03) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007) Penalty, see §
90.999
§ 90.028 DUTY OF PROPERTY OWNERS TO CUT GRASS AND WEEDS; MAINTAIN TREES AND
SHRUBS.
   (A)   All individual residential and commercial lots and the adjacent
boulevards shall be mowed on a regular basis so that the height of grass and or
weeds does not exceed 6 inches. Property owners in violation shall be given a 7
day written notice from the date of mailing to complete the work. In addition,
property owners shall be responsible for maintaining and trimming trees and
shrubs located in the boulevards.
   (B)   All vacant lots within the city must also be maintained and are
subject to the 6 inch rule. An exemption from enforcement must be obtained in
areas where vacant lot(s) are unsafe to mow due to terrain or water erosion
control. However, the boulevards and portions of the lot (if any) that can
safely be accessed must still be maintained.
   (C)   For purposes of enforcement of this section, when any property is in
the right of recovery period of an act of foreclosure, the individual or
corporate owner against whom the foreclosure is taking place continues to be
responsible for maintenance of the property for as long as they occupy the
premises. Once vacated, maintenance responsibility is transferred to the
secured party having title to the property.
   (D)   For purposes of enforcement, city personnel need only issue an
enforcement intent notice once per calendar year, normally during the spring of
the year to the owner of any vacant lot. After issuance of the annual notice,
city enforcement personnel are authorized to conduct inspections on a monthly
basis to ensure compliance.
   (E)   For all lots within the city, noxious weeds must be treated,
eradicated or maintained before the weed is allowed to seed out, per Minnesota
state statute. (M.S. Ch. 18.00)
   (F)   Failure to comply with provisions of this section constitutes a petty
misdemeanor enforceable by written citation or summons. In addition to or in
lieu of citation, the city may elect to complete the abatement procedure as
listed in §
90.006.
(Prior Code, § 10.03) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007; Am. Ord. 2013-03,
passed 5-20-2013)
§ 90.029 CITY MAY ORDER WORK DONE.
   The city may, in cases of failure to comply with §90.028, perform the work
with employees of the city or under contract, keeping an accurate account of
the cost thereof for each lot, piece or parcel of land abutting upon the
street. After the maintenance work is completed, the Public Works Director
shall forthwith determine the cost of the work attributable to each lot or
parcel of abutting land and the city shall send the owner of the benefitted
property a bill for the costs. If the property owner fails to pay the city's
invoice within 30 days of receipt, the costs may be specially assessed against
the benefitted property pursuant to M.S. § 429.101.
(Prior Code, § 10.03) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 90.030 CITY MAY TRIM ALL BOULEVARD TREES.
   The city may trim all trees located within the city's boulevard or right-of-
way or any trees located between the line of the private property nearest to
the street and the street as necessary in order to facilitate street and
sidewalk maintenance.
(Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
SHADE TREE DISEASE
§ 90.045 POLICY AND PURPOSE.
   The city has determined that the health of oak and elm trees is threatened
by fatal diseases known as oak wilt and Dutch elm disease. It has further
determined that the loss of oak and elm trees located on public and private
property would substantially depreciate the value of property and impair the
safety, general welfare and convenience of the public. It is declared to be the
intention of the Council to control and prevent the spread of these diseases,
and provide for the removal of dead or diseased trees, as nuisances as
permitted by M.S. § 18G.13.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 90.046 SCOPE AND ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   M.S. Chapter 18G is hereby adopted by reference, together with the rules and
regulations of the Minnesota Commissioner of Agriculture relating to shade tree
diseases; provided, that this section shall govern where this code is more
restrictive.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 90.047 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INFECTED. A plant that is:
      (1)   Contaminated with pathogenic microorganisms;
      (2)   Being parasitized;
      (3)   A host or carrier of an infectious, transmissible, or contagious
pest; or
      (4)   So exposed to a plant listed in divisions (1), (2), or (3) that 1
of those conditions can reasonably be expected to exist and the plant may also
pose a risk of contamination to other plants or the environment.
   OWNER. Includes, but is not limited to, the person with the legal right of
possession, proprietorship of, or responsibility for the property or place
where any of the articles regulated in this chapter are found, or the person
who is in possession of, proprietorship of, or has responsibility for the
regulated articles.
   PERSON. An individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust,
joint stock company, or unincorporated organization; the state; a state agency;
or a political subdivision.
   PUBLIC TREE NUISANCE.
      (1)   Any living or standing tree infected to any degree with a shade
tree disease; or
      (2)   Any logs, branches, stumps or other parts of any dead or dying
tree, so infected, unless such parts have been fully burned or treated under
the direction of the Tree Inspector.
   SHADE TREE. A woody perennial grown primarily for aesthetic or environmental
purposes.
   SHADE TREE DISEASE. Dutch elm disease or oak wilt disease.
   SHADE TREE PEST. Pests or pathogens affecting the growth and life of shade
trees.
   TREE INSPECTOR. The Public Works Director shall inspect the trees of the
city on an annual basis. The timetable of inspection shall be at the discretion
of the Director.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 90.048 UNLAWFUL ACT.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep, maintain or permit any public tree
nuisance as defined in §
90.047 upon premises the person owns or upon public property where the person
has the duty of tree maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
Penalty, see § 90.999
§ 90.049 INSPECTION AND DIAGNOSIS.
   It is the power and duty of the Tree Inspector to enter upon public or
private property, at any reasonable time, for the purpose of inspecting for,
and diagnosing, shade tree disease. In cases of suspected shade tree disease,
and in performance of his or her duties, the Tree Inspector may remove
specimens or samples as may be necessary or desirable for diagnosis.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 90.050 ABATEMENT OF TREE NUISANCE.
   A public tree nuisance shall be abated by spraying, removing, burning, or
otherwise effectively treating the infected tree or wood to prevent spread of
shade tree disease. The abatement procedures shall be carried out in accordance
with current technical and expert methods and plans as may be designed by the
Commissioner of Agriculture of the State of Minnesota.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 90.051 PROCEDURE FOR REMOVAL OF INFECTED TREES AND WOOD.
   (A)   Whenever the Tree Inspector finds with reasonable certainty that the
infection, or danger of infection, exists in any tree or wood on any public or
private property, the Tree Inspector shall proceed as follows:
      (1)   The Tree Inspector or City Code Enforcement Officer shall provide a
written notice to the owner of the property upon which the infected tree is
located informing the owner that the tree must be removed within a specified
period of time through specified removal methods.
      (2)   If the owner does not remove the tree within the time period listed
in the written notice, the Director of Public Works shall order the work
performed by city staff or day labor.
      (3)   After the city removes the tree, the city shall send an invoice to
the property owner requiring payment of all city costs related to removal of
the tree, including contractor, consultant and city staff costs. The owner must
pay the city's bill within 30 days of receipt.
      (4)   If the owner fails to pay the city's invoice, the city may levy the
costs of tree removal against the property as a special assessment under M.S. §
429.101 and other pertinent statutes for certification to the County Auditor
and collection the following year along with current taxes.
   (B)   No damage shall be awarded the owner for destruction of any tree, wood
or part thereof pursuant to this section.
   (C)   Property owners removing boulevard trees that are dead or diseased may
be eligible for a 25% reimbursement from the city. Prior approval from the City
Administrator is required. The city may assess up to 50% of the city's cost of
removing a boulevard tree.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 90.052 SPRAYING TREES.
   (A)   Whenever the Tree Inspector determines that any tree or wood is
infected or threatened with infection, the Tree Inspector may spray or treat
all nearby high value trees with an effective concentrate or fungicide or both.
Activities authorized by this section shall be conducted in accordance with
technical and expert opinions and plans of the Commissioner of Agriculture and
under the supervision of the Commissioner and his or her agents whenever
possible.
   (B)   The notice and assessment provisions of §
90.051 apply to spraying and treatment operations conducted under this section.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 90.053 TRANSPORTING WOOD PROHIBITED.
   It is a petty misdemeanor for any person to transport any elm wood into or
through the city unless the same is debarked, or, in the months of April, May
or June, to transport any oak wood, without first obtaining a permit from the
City Administrator.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 90.054 INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the Tree
Inspector while he or she is engaged in the performance of duties imposed by
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
Penalty, see § 90.999
§ 90.055 ADDITIONAL DUTIES OF TREE INSPECTOR.
   It is the additional duty of the Tree Inspector to coordinate, under the
direction and control of the Council, all activities of the city relating to
the control and prevention of shade tree disease. He or she shall recommend to
the Council the details of a program for the control of the diseases, and
perform the duties incident to such a program adopted by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 90.056 DISEASED TREES IN STREETS.
   The rights, duties and responsibilities of property owners set forth in this
subchapter shall be equally applicable to, and binding upon, abutting property
owners with tree maintenance responsibilities under this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
§ 90.057 SUBSIDIES.
   The duty of any property owner to bear the cost of removing or maintaining
trees, whether by private contract or assessment, may be offset by a subsidy
policy, if any, established by the city for the treatment or removal of trees
infected with shade tree disease.
(Prior Code, § 10.20) (Am. Ord. 2007-007, passed 5-7-2007)
OPEN BURNING; AIR POLLUTION CONTROL
§ 90.070 MINNESOTA STATUTES ADOPTED.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 88 are hereby adopted by reference as though
set forth verbatim herein. It is a petty misdemeanor to violate a provision of
this subchapter or of M.S. Chapter 88, hereby adopted by reference.
(Prior Code, § 10.21)
§ 90.071 FIRE WARDEN.
   The Fire Chief shall serve as the Fire Warden.
(Prior Code, § 10.21)
§ 90.072 EXCEPTIONS.
   The following open burning shall be excepted from the regulations of this
subchapter.
   (A)   Fires in barbecue grills or other authorized containers used solely
for the preparation of food. In any structure containing three or more dwelling
units, it is a petty misdemeanor for any person to kindle, maintain or cause to
be kindled or maintained any fire or open flame on any balcony above ground
level, or on any ground floor patio within 15 feet of said structure, or to
store or use any fuel, barbecue, torch or other similar heating or lighting
chemicals or devices in the locations designated above. These prohibitions do
not apply to electric or gas-fired barbecue grills which are permanently
mounted, wired or plumbed to the building’s gas or electrical system and
maintain a minimum clearance of 18 inches on all sides (unless listed for
lesser clearances by the manufacturer) when approved by the Fire Chief.
   (B)   Fires set for the instruction and training of public and industrial
fire fighting personnel when weather conditions are such that resultant smoke
will be carried away from the neighboring residences or other affected property
owners or public roadways, and that the burning will not constitute a fire,
health or traffic hazard, and a special permit has been issued by the Fire
Chief.
   (C)   Fires set for the elimination of hazards which cannot be abated by any
other practical means and have been issued a special permit by the Fire Chief.
   (D)   RECREATIONAL FIRES is defined as the burning of materials other than
rubbish where the fuel being burned is placed in a container or at a location
other than in an incinerator, outdoor fireplace or barbecue pit, and with a
total fuel area of 3 feet or less in diameter and 2 feet in height.
Recreational fires are permitted under the following conditions: buckets,
shovels, or garden hoses are readily available, and a special permit is issued
by the Fire Chief or duly authorized agent. It is a petty misdemeanor to allow
campfires except in pits conforming to the specifics above located in
designated camp grounds.
(Prior Code, § 10.21) (Am. Ord. 2007-006, passed 4-16-2007)
§ 90.073 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   Special permits may be issued by the Fire Chief based upon the following:
   (A)   Written application;
   (B)   Evidence of need;
   (C)   Evidence of adequate precaution for public protection and safety;
   (D)   Specification of location;
   (E)   Specification of materials to be consumed;
   (F)   Limitation to day(s) with wind levels below 10 mph;
   (G)   Written permission of the owner, lessee, or agent of the owner or
lessee of the land;
   (H)   Agreement that the permittee shall keep the permit on his or her
person at all times and shall produce the permit for inspection when requested
to do so by a forest officer, Fire Chief, conservation officer, or other peace
officer;
   (I)   The permittee shall remain with the fire at all times and before
leaving the site completely extinguish the fire.
(Prior Code, § 10.21)
§ 90.074 REVOCATION OF SPECIAL PERMITS.
   The Fire Chief shall revoke permits issued under this subchapter upon
finding that:
   (A)   The permit is being used by any person other than the person to whom
it was issued;
   (B)   The conditions or limitations set forth in said permit have been
violated;
   (C)   Violations set forth in any written notice served upon a permittee by
the Fire Chief have not been corrected within the time required by the notice;
or
   (D)   The permit is being used for any premises or location other than that
for which it was issued.
(Prior Code, § 10.21)
§ 90.075 REPORTING OF FIRES.
   It is a petty misdemeanor for the occupant of any property upon which any
unauthorized fire is burning, whether the fire was started by the occupant or
otherwise, to fail to promptly report the fire to the nearest forestry office,
fire department, or other proper authority. The occupant of the premises shall
be deemed prima facie guilty of negligence if the unreported fire spreads from
the property or causes damage, loss, or injury to another person, that person’s
property, or the state.
(Prior Code, § 10.21)
OPEN AREA STORAGE
§ 90.090 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this section is to regulate the storage of property in areas
of the city visible to the general public, in a manner designed to protect and
promote the health, safety and welfare of the public and to maintain property
values. No person, firm, or corporation of any kind shall maintain or permit to
be maintained, any causes of blight or blighting factors upon any public or
private property within city limits owned, leased, rented or occupied by such
person, firm or corporation.
(Ord. 21, Second Series, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 90.091 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. A vehicle lacking working components needed for
operation.
   JUNK. Include, but not be limited to, machinery or auto parts, appliances,
household furniture and furnishings, scrap lumber, decayed or broken building
materials, used tires, barrels and scrap metal, and old or unused bicycles and
bicycle parts.
   REFUSE. Refuse shall include all garbage; any organic matter resulting from
the manufacture, preparation or serving of food or food products, and spoiled,
decayed or waste products from any source, glass, plastic, tin cans, paper,
aluminum, cardboard or other refuse not contained in a hard-surfaced, tightly
covered receptacle.
   RUBBISH. Rubbish shall include any material rejected or thrown away, which
is regarded as worthless.
   UNLICENSED VEHICLE. A vehicle with registration that has expired, is
untitled, or in the case of any motor vehicle, recreational vehicle, boat, or
snowmobile that requires current registration be displayed on the unit and that
registration has expired.
   YARD WASTE. Trash shall include, but not be limited to, parts that have
broken off or stripped including leaves, twigs, plant trimmings, weeds and
branches not to be used as compost material for gardening.
(Ord. 21, Second Series, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 90.092 OTHER STORAGE.
   In any area on public or private property, the storage or accumulation of
junk, trash, rubbish or refuse of any kind, shall not exceed a period of 7
days.
(Ord. 21, Second Series, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 90.093 VEHICLE STORAGE.
   No motor vehicles which are inoperable or unlicensed or both, shall be
stored on private property for a period of more than 30 days, unless stored in
a building or surrounded by a fence or other enclosure as approved by the City
Council constructed to keep said vehicle from public view.
(Ord. 21, Second Series, passed 6-7-1999; Am. Ord. 2012-10, passed 10-1-2012)
§ 90.094 BUILDING MATERIALS.
   During construction or repair of real property, building materials shall be
stacked and stored in a neat and orderly fashion, and in a manner so as to
avoid presenting any danger to the general public. Refuse building materials
shall be stored in a garbage disposal container. All building materials and
refuse shall be cleared from the property no later than 30 days after the
completion of the construction repair or 10 days after the building permit has
expired, whichever comes first.
(Ord. 21, Second Series, passed 6-7-1999)
§ 90.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
90.001 et seq. or fails to comply with a lawful order issued pursuant to this
section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.  A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day that a violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 10.01)
   (C)   It is a petty misdemeanor for any person to burn or permit the burning
of any grass, weeds, leaves, rubbish or other substance upon premises owned or
occupied by the person, except as otherwise provided by the City Code.
(Prior Code, § 10.21)
   (D)   (1)   If the city determines the real property owner is violation of
any section of §§
90.002 et seq., the property owner and/or the person believed to be responsible
for the nuisance shall be notified, by writing, by the Zoning Administrator to
correct the violations within 15 days after the notice has been served. The
notice may be served personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested,
to the most recent address on file of the property owner. The Zoning
Administrator may grant in writing additional time or an exemption when bona
fide efforts to correct the violations are in progress. If the correction has
not been made in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator within the time period
granted by the Zoning Administrator, and in the Zoning Administrator's opinion
sufficient time has been given to correct the violation, the City Administrator
shall notify the owner and/or the person believed to be responsible for the
nuisance of the Zoning Administrator's determination of a continued violation
and the imposition of an administrative penalty in the amount set by Council
for each day thereafter that the nuisance remains, as a separate offense shall
be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
The written notice shall inform the recipient of his or her right to appeal an
administrative penalty under division (D)(2). The notice of administrative
penalty may be served personally or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the most recent address on file of the property owner and/or
person believed to be responsible for the violation.
      (2)   A person notified of the imposition of an administrative penalty
pursuant to division (D)(1) may request a hearing before the City Council by
submitting a notice of appeal to the City Administrator within 20 days of
receipt of written notice of administrative penalty. Following a timely receipt
of a written notice of appeal, the person shall be afforded an opportunity for
a hearing before the City Council. The City Council may affirm, adjust, or
waive the administrative penalty. The administrative penalty shall be effective
beginning on the date the property owner and/or person believed to be
responsible for the violation receipt of the written notification from the City
Administrator and continuing until violation is eliminated/resolved to the
city's satisfaction, unless adjusted or waived by City Council at the
conclusion of an appeal.
      (3)   In addition to the city's authority under division (D)(1), if the
violator has not corrected the condition to the satisfaction of the city within
15 days after receiving the notice to correct from the Zoning Administrator
pursuant to division (D)(1), the city may remove or cause to be removed the
cause of the violation, including any vehicle or other personal property which
constitutes the violation, and charge the vehicle owner or vehicle operator,
landowner and/or building contractor responsible for the cause of the violation
the cost of the removal, plus the cost of storage or disposal of the items or
times which constituted the violation. If the assessed costs set out in this
division are not paid within 30 days after billing by the city, the city
reserves the right to assess the costs against the real property on which the
violation occurred, including any incurred administrative penalties, on the
next real estate tax assessment roll following the violation.
      (4)   Any violator who is served a warning notice from the Zoning
Administrator under division (D)(1) above who responds to the notice by moving
the item which is in violation to a new location within city limits which is
also in violation of §§
90.002 et seq., shall be considered to be in continued violation, and the
original 15-day warning notice grace period shall continue to run in the same
manner as if the violator has not moved the item from the original location.
      (5)   If after the City Administrator has provided written notice of the
imposition of an administrative penalty and the appeal period has expired or
the administrative penalty was either affirmed or adjusted by the City Council
at the conclusion of a timely appeal, and the administrative penalty remains
unpaid or the situation creating the alleged violation remains uncorrected the
later of 30 days after the expiration of the time to request an appeal hearing
or after the date of the appeal hearing, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this Code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation. Any
person violating any provision of §§
90.002 et seq. may be charged with a misdemeanor. A separate misdemeanor shall
be deemed to have been committed upon each day during which a violation of the
Code occurs or continues.
(Ord. 21, Second Series, passed 6-7-1999; Am. Ord. 2020-06, passed 10-19-2020;
Am. Ord. 2021-12, passed 9-20-2021)
CHAPTER 91: ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES; UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
Section
Abandoned Motor Vehicles; Disposal
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Custody
   
91.03   Sale; waiting periods
   
91.04   Notice
   
91.05   Right to reclaim
   
91.06   Auction or sale
   
91.07   Disposal of vehicles
   
91.08   Contract and disposal
Unclaimed Property; Disposal
   
91.20   Definition
   
91.21   Preliminary notice
   
91.22   Notice and sale
   
91.23   Funds and claims thereon
ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLES; DISPOSAL
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle as defined in M.S. Chapter 169,
that has remained for a period of more than 48 hours on public property
illegally or lacking vital component parts, or in an inoperable condition such
that it has no substantial potential further use consistent with its usual
function unless it is kept in an enclosed garage or storage building. It shall
also mean a motor vehicle voluntarily surrendered by its owner to and accepted
by the city. A classic car or pioneer car, as defined in M.S. Chapter 168,
shall not be considered an abandoned motor vehicle within the meaning of this
section. Vehicles on the premises of junk yards or automobile graveyards, which
are licensed and maintained in accordance with the City Code, shall not be
considered abandoned motor vehicles within the meaning of this section.
   JUNK VEHICLE. A vehicle that is 3 years old or older; is extensively
damaged, with the damage including such things as broken or missing wheels,
motor, drive train, or transmission, is apparently inoperable; does not have a
valid, current registration plate; and has an approximate fair market value
equal only to the approximate value of the scrap in it.
   UNAUTHORIZED VEHICLE. A vehicle that is subject to removal and impoundment
pursuant to Minnesota Statutes but is not a junk vehicle or abandoned vehicle.
   VITAL COMPONENT PARTS. Those parts of a motor vehicle that are essential to
the mechanical functioning of the vehicle, including, but not limited to, the
motor, drive train and wheels.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 91.02 CUSTODY.
   The city may take into custody and impound any abandoned or junk motor
vehicle, or any unauthorized vehicle as provided by statute. Nothing in this
chapter shall prohibit the owner of any private property upon which an
unauthorized vehicle is parked to have the vehicle towed at the owner’s
expense.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 91.03 SALE; WAITING PERIODS.
   (A)   An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or sale 15 days after
notice to the owner if the vehicle is determined to be a junk vehicle, except
that it may have a valid, current registration plate and still be eligible for
disposal or sale; or an abandoned motor vehicle.
   (B)   An impounded vehicle is eligible for disposal or sale 45 days after
notice to the owner if the vehicle is determined to be an unauthorized vehicle.
   (C)   When vehicles, real estate, or other real property has been seized by
the Police Department in conjunction with the commission of a state statute
designated crime, the Police Department may sel the vehicles, real estate, or
other real property by auction, bid, or to a dealer, that have been awarded to
the city through the vehicle forfeiture process as outlined in state statutes.
proceeds from these sales will be deposited into the Police Forfeiture Fund and
distributed in accordance with state law governing same.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 91.04 NOTICE.
   (A)   When an impounded vehicle is taken into custody, the city or impound
lot operator shall give notice of the taking within 10 days. The notice shall
set forth the date and place of the taking, the year, make, model and serial
number of the abandoned motor vehicle, if such information can be reasonably
obtained, and the place where the vehicle is being held, shall inform the owner
and any lien holders of their right to reclaim the vehicle under §
91.05, and shall state that failure of the owner or lien holder to exercise
their right to reclaim the vehicle and contents within the appropriate time
allowed under statute shall be deemed a waiver by them of all rights, title and
interest in the vehicle and a consent to the transfer of title to and disposal
or sale of the vehicle and contents pursuant to §
91.06.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent by mail to the registered owner, if any, of
the impounded motor vehicle and to all readily identifiable lien holders of
record. This information shall be made available to impound lot operators for
notification purposes. If it is impossible to determine with reasonable
certainty the identity and address of the registered owner and all lien
holders, the notice shall be published once in the official newspaper.
Published notices may be grouped together for convenience and economy. If an
unauthorized vehicle remains unclaimed after 30 days from the date the notice
was sent, a second notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the registered owner, if any, of the unauthorized vehicle and to
all readily identifiable lien holders of record.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 91.05 RIGHT TO RECLAIM.
   (A)   The owner or any lien holder of an impounded motor vehicle shall have
the right to reclaim the vehicle from the city or impound lot upon payment of
all towing and storage charges resulting from taking the vehicle into custody
within 15 or 45 days as applicable under this chapter after the date of the
notice required by this chapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to impair any lien of a
garage keeper under the laws of this state, or the right of the lien holder to
foreclose. For the purposes of this section, GARAGE KEEPER is an operator of a
parking place or establishment, an operator of a motor vehicle storage
facility, or an operator of an establishment for the servicing, repair or
maintenance of motor vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 91.06 AUCTION OR SALE.
   (A)   An abandoned or unauthorized motor vehicle and contents taken into
custody by the city or any impound lot and not reclaimed under §
91.05 may be disposed of or sold at auction or sale when eligible pursuant to §
91.05. The purchaser shall be given a receipt in a form prescribed by the
Registrar of Motor Vehicles which shall be sufficient title to dispose of the
vehicle. The receipt shall also entitle the purchaser to register the vehicle
and receive a certificate of title, free and clear of all liens and claims of
ownership. Before such a vehicle is issued a new certificate of title, it must
receive a motor vehicle safety check.
   (B)   From the proceeds of the sale of an abandoned or unauthorized motor
vehicle by the city or public impound lot, the city shall reimburse itself for
the cost of towing, preserving and storing the vehicle, and all administrative,
notice and publication costs incurred pursuant to this subchapter. Any
remainder from the proceeds of a sale shall be held for the owner of the
vehicle or entitled lien holder for 90 days and then shall be deposited in the
General Fund of the city.
   (C)   The operator of a nonpublic impound lot may retain any proceeds from a
sale derived from a sale conducted under the authority of this chapter. The
operator may retain all proceeds from the sale of any personal belongings and
contents in the vehicle that were not claimed by the owner or the owner’s agent
before the sale; except that any suspected contraband or other items that
likely would be subject to forfeiture in a criminal trial must be turned over
to the appropriate law enforcement agency.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 91.07 DISPOSAL OF VEHICLES.
   Where no bid has been received for an abandoned or junk motor vehicle, the
city may dispose of it in accordance with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 91.08 CONTRACTS AND DISPOSAL.
   (A)   The city may contract with any qualified person for collection,
storage, incineration, volume reduction, transportation or other services
necessary to prepare abandoned motor vehicles and other scrap metal for
recycling or other methods of disposal.
   (B)   (1)   Where the city enters into a contract with a person duly
licensed by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, the Agency shall review the
contract to determine whether it conforms to the Agency’s plan for solid waste
disposal.
      (2)   A contract that does so conform may be approved by the Agency.
Where a contract has been approved, the Agency may reimburse the city for the
costs incurred under the contract which have not been reimbursed.
   (C)   If the city utilizes its own equipment and personnel for disposal of
the abandoned motor vehicle, it shall be entitled to reimbursement for the cost
thereof along with its other costs as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
UNCLAIMED PROPERTY; DISPOSAL
§ 91.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED PROPERTY. Tangible or intangible property that has lawfully come
into the possession of the city in the course of municipal operations, remains
unclaimed by the owner, and has been in the possession of the city for at least
60 days and has been declared such by a resolution of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 91.21 PRELIMINARY NOTICE.
   The city shall send written notice to the owner of the abandoned property at
least 30 days prior to a declaration of abandonment by the Council. If the city
acquired possession from a prior owner, the city shall also send written notice
to the prior owner. The notice shall describe the property and state that
unless it is claimed and proof of ownership, or entitlement to possession is
established, the City Council may declare the property abandoned 30 days from
the date of the notice. Property seized by the Police Department in accordance
with state forfeiture law is exempt from this section.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 91.22 NOTICE AND SALE.
   Upon adoption of a resolution declaring certain property to be abandoned
property, the City Administrator shall publish a notice thereof describing the
same, together with the known names of prior owners and holders thereof, and
including a brief description of the property. The text of the notice shall
also state the time, place and manner of sale of all such property, except cash
and negotiables. The notice shall be published once in a legal newspaper at
least 10 days prior to the sale. The city shall sell the abandoned property to
the highest bidder at public auction or sale or by a nonprofit organization
with a significant mission of community service in a private sale in the manner
authorized by statute.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
§ 91.23 FUNDS AND CLAIMS THEREON.
   If the abandoned property was sold at public auction or sale, proceeds from
the sale shall first pay expenses of the sale, then be placed into the General
Fund of the city; or, in the case of a private sale, to the nonprofit
organization authorized to conduct the sale. If the former owner claims the
abandoned property within 6 months from the date of publication of the notice
herein provided, and provides application and satisfactory proof of ownership,
the former owner may be paid the amount at sale, less the cost of storage,
publication of notice, and sale expenses, but without interest. Property seized
by the Police Department in accordance with state forfeiture law is exempt from
this section.
(Prior Code, § 10.02)
CHAPTER 92: ANIMALS
Section
Dogs and Cats
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Running at large prohibited
   
92.03   License required
   
92.04   License issuance, term and renewal
   
92.05   Adoption of fees
   
92.06   Tag required
   
92.07   Impounding
   
92.08   Redemption
   
92.09   Disposition of unclaimed animals
   
92.10   Pound master
   
92.11   Immobilization of animals
   
92.12   Other unlawful acts
   
92.13   Rabies control
   
92.14   Police dogs; seeing-eye dogs
   
92.15   Animals in heat
   
92.16   Number of animals restricted
   
92.17   Dangerous dogs
Keeping, Transporting and Treatment of All Animals
   
92.30   Definitions
   
92.31   Keeping
   
92.32   Animals in transit
   
92.33   Treatment
   
92.34   Housing
   
92.35   Trespassing
Other Regulations
   
92.50   Animal waste
   
92.51   Wild animal regulation
 
   
92.99   Penalty
DOGS AND CATS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. A dog, cat, or ferret.
   CAT. Both male and female and includes any animal of the feline kind.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. An animal which has caused damage to property or injury to
a person, or which animal, by its actions, exhibits a propensity for causing
imminent danger to persons.
   DOG. Both male and female and includes any animal of the canine kind.
   FARM ANIMAL. An animal traditionally found on farms in rural areas including
but not limited to: cows, pigs, horses, rabbits, geese, and ducks.
   OWN. To have a property interest in, or to harbor, feed, board, keep or
possess.
   OWNER. A person who owns an animal hereby regulated.
   PET BIRDS. Birds that are traditionally kept as pets including but not
limited to: parakeets, cockatoos, caiques, and exotic birds.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 92.02 RUNNING AT LARGE PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for the owner of any animal to permit the animal to run at
large. Any animal shall be deemed to be running at large with the permission of
the owner unless it is on a durable leash secured to an object which it cannot
move and on the premises of the owner, or on a leash or under the control of an
accompanying person of suitable age and discretion, or effectively confined
within a motor vehicle, building, or enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 10.10) (Am. Ord. 6, Second Series, passed - -1999) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 92.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   The owner of any animal, which is 6 months of age or more, must obtain a
license therefor from the city.
(Prior Code, § 10.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 LICENSE ISSUANCE, TERM AND RENEWAL.
   All animal licenses shall be issued only upon presentation of a certificate
issued by a veterinarian, licensed to practice veterinary medicine in the State
of Minnesota, showing rabies immunization of the animal for at least the term
of the license. Only vaccinations recognized by the state animal board of
health shall fulfill this requirement. All animal licenses shall expire on
December 31. Application for license renewal, accompanied by a veterinarian’s
certificate, shall be made at least 30 days prior to expiration of the license.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 92.05 ADOPTION OF FEES.
   All fees for the licensing of animals, including penalties for late
application, may be fixed and determined by the Council, adopted by ordinance,
and uniformly enforced. The fees may from time to time be amended by the
Council by ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 92.06 TAG REQUIRED.
   All licensed animals shall wear a collar and have a tag firmly affixed
thereto evidencing a current license. A duplicate for a lost tag may be issued
by the city upon presentation of the receipt showing the payment of the
duplicate license fee. Tags shall not be transferable, and no refund shall be
made on any license fee because of leaving the city or death of the animal
before the expiration of the license.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 92.07 IMPOUNDING.
   Any animal found unlicensed or any dog running at large, or committing any
act which constitutes a nuisance, contrary to the provisions of the City Code
may be impounded by the pound master or any police officer or designated public
officer, who shall give notice of the impounding to the owner of the animal, if
known. If the owner is unknown and if the animal is not claimed within 5 days
of the posting of the notice, the animal will be disposed of.
(Prior Code, § 10.10) (Am. Ord. 6, Second Series, passed - -1999; Am. Ord. 88,
Second Series, passed 7-18-2005)
§ 92.08 REDEMPTION.
   (A)   Any animal may be redeemed from the pound by the owner within the time
stated in the notice by the payment to the City Administrator of the license
fee for the current year, if unpaid, together with an impounding fee set by the
Council on the first impounding and $50 on the second or subsequent impounding
within the same calendar year, and the payment of a reasonable care and feeding
charge.
   (B)   If the owner of the animal is not a resident of the city, the animal
may not be redeemed until the owner provides proof of immunization of the
animal for rabies, and payment of the impounding fee and maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 10.10) (Am. Ord. 6, Second Series, passed - -1999)
§ 92.09 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED ANIMALS.
   (A)   Any animal which is not redeemed within the time specified in the
notice provided by §
92.08 may be sold for not less than the amount required by §
92.08 for redemption to anyone desiring to purchase the animal if it is not
requested by a licensed, educational or scientific institution under M.S. §
35.71.
   (B)   All sums received in addition to the fees fixed by §
92.08 shall be paid to the owner if he or she makes a claim within 1 year of
the sale and furnishes satisfactory proof of ownership.
   (C)   Any animal which is not claimed by the owner or sold shall be
painlessly disposed of by the pound master.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 92.10 POUND MASTER.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or his or her designated agent shall be pound
master.
   (B)   He or she shall maintain the City Pound and shall perform other duties
imposed on him or her by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 92.11 IMMOBILIZATION OF ANIMALS.
   For the purpose of enforcement of this chapter any peace officer, or person
whose duty is animal control, may use a so-called tranquilizer gun or other
instrument for the purpose of immobilizing and catching an animal.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 92.12 OTHER UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is unlawful for the owner of any animal to:
   (A)   Fail to have the license tag issued by the city firmly attached to a
collar worn at all times by the licensed animal;
   (B)   Own a dangerous animal;
   (C)   Interfere with any police officer, or other city employee, in the
performance of his or her duty to enforce this subchapter;
   (D)   Fail to keep his or her dog from barking, howling or whining; or
   (E)   Fail to keep his or her cat from emitting loud or unusual noise.
(Prior Code, § 10.10) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.13 RABIES CONTROL.
   (A)   If an animal is diseased, vicious, dangerous, rabid or exposed to
rabies and the animal cannot be impounded after a reasonable effort or cannot
be impounded without serious risk to the person attempting to impound, the
animal may be destroyed in a humane manner.
   (B)   (1)   Every animal which bites a person shall be promptly reported to
the Chief of Police or Pound master and shall thereupon be securely quarantined
at the direction of the Chief of Police or Pound master for a period of 14
days, and shall not be released from the quarantine except by written
permission of the city. In the discretion of the Chief of Police, the
quarantine may be on the premises of the owner or at the veterinary hospital of
his or her choice. If the animal is quarantined on the premises of the owner,
the city shall have access to the animal at any reasonable time for study and
observation of rabies symptoms. In the case of a stray animal or in the case of
an animal whose ownership is not known, the quarantine shall be at the animal
pound, or at the discretion of the Chief of Police the animal may be confined
in a veterinary hospital designated by him or her.
      (2)   The owners, upon demand made by the Pound master or by any other
city employee empowered by the Council to enforce this chapter, shall forthwith
surrender any animal which has bitten a human, or which is suspected as having
been exposed to rabies, for the purpose of supervised quarantine. The expenses
of the quarantine shall be borne by the owner and the animal may be reclaimed
by the owner if adjudged free of rabies upon payment of fees set forth in this
chapter and upon compliance with licensing provisions set forth in this
subchapter.
      (3)   When an animal under quarantine and diagnosed as being rabid or
suspected by a licensed veterinarian as being rabid dies or is killed, the city
shall immediately send the head of the animal and rabies data report to the
state’s Health Department for pathological examination and shall notify all
persons concerned of the results of the examination.
      (4)   The city shall issue the proclamation and take such action when
rabies is suspected or exists as is required by Minnesota Statutes.
   (C)   It is the duty of every physician, or other practitioner, to report to
the Chief of Police the names and addresses of persons treated for bites
inflicted by animals, together with such other information as will be helpful
in rabies control.
   (D)   It is the duty of every licensed veterinarian to report to the Chief
of Police his or her diagnosis of an animal observed by him or her as a rabies
suspect.
(Prior Code, § 10.10) (Am. Ord. 6, Second Series, passed - -1999) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 92.14 POLICE DOGS; SEEING-EYE DOGS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the ownership or use of
seeing-eye dogs by blind persons, dogs used in police activities of the city,
such as canine corps or tracking dogs used by or with the permission of the
Police Department, and guide dogs or trained assistance dogs.
(Prior Code, § 10.10) (Am. Ord. 6, Second Series, passed - -1999)
§ 92.15 ANIMALS IN HEAT.
   Except for controlled breeding purposes, every female animal in heat shall
be kept confined in a building or secure enclosure, or in a veterinary hospital
or boarding kennel, in such manner that the female animal cannot come in
contact with other animals.
(Prior Code, § 10.10)
§ 92.16 NUMBER OF ANIMALS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   A resident may not keep more animals or birds than a combination
equaling a total of 3 to a dwelling.
   (B)   Application of this section applies only to animals that have reached
the age of 6 months.
(Prior Code, § 10.10) (Am. Ord. 6, Second Series, passed - -1999; Am. Ord.
2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 92.17 DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Purpose. M.S. § 347.50, Subd. 8 and M.S. § 347.53 authorize cities to
establish a procedure by which a dog may be declared dangerous or potentially
dangerous, including the right to appeal that designation. Pursuant to the
authority granted by Minnesota Statutes, the Jordan City Council prescribes the
following procedures and enforcement regulations governing dangerous dog
declarations.
   (B)   Scope. The provisions of this section apply to the incorporated city
limits of the City of Jordan, Minnesota.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER. The agency or person under contract with
the city to provide animal control services. It shall also include any licensed
police officer or trained support personnel designated as an Animal Control
Officer by the Chief of Police.
      (2)   DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that has:
         (a)   Without provocation, inflicted substantial bodily harm on a
human being on public or private property;
         (b)   Killed a domestic animal without provocation while off the
owner’s property; or
         (c)   Been found to be potentially dangerous, and after the owner has
notice that the dog is potentially dangerous, the dog aggressively bites,
attacks, or endangers the safety of humans or domestic animals.
      (3)   GREAT BODILY HARM. Has the meaning given it under M.S. § 609.02,
Subd. 8.
      (4)   OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, organization, or department
possessing, harboring, keeping, having an interest in, or having care, custody,
or control of a dog.
      (5)   POTENTIALLY DANGEROUS DOG. Any dog that:
         (a)   When unprovoked, inflicts bites on a human or domestic animal on
public or private property;
         (b)   When unprovoked, chases or approaches a person, including a
person on a bicycle, upon the streets, sidewalks, or any public or private
property, other than the dog owner’s property, in an apparent attitude of
attack; or
         (c)   Has a known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
unprovoked, causing injury or otherwise threatening the safety of humans or
domestic animals.
      (6)   PROPER ENCLOSURE. Securely confined indoors or in a securely
enclosed and locked pen or structure suitable to prevent the dog from escaping
and providing protection from the elements for the dog. A PROPER ENCLOSURE does
not include a porch, patio, or any part of a house, garage, or other structure
that would allow the dog to exit of its own volition, or any house or structure
in which windows are open or in which door or window screens are the only
obstacles that prevent the dog from exiting.
      (7)   SUBSTANTIAL BODILY HARM. Has the meaning given it under M.S. §
609.02, Subd.7a.
      (8)   UNPROVOKED. The condition in which the dog is not purposely
excited, stimulated, agitated or disturbed. It is a rebuttable presumption that
any attack on a child 14 years of age or younger for which a reasonable person
connotes an intent to inflict bodily harm will be considered to be UNPROVOKED
unless the child is engaged in the commission of a crime or illegal activity,
including activities classified under M.S. § 343 as cruelty to animals.
   (D)   Designation of a potentially dangerous dog.
      (1)   The Animal Control Officer shall designate any dog as a potentially
dangerous dog upon receiving evidence that the dog, when unprovoked, has
bitten, attacked, or threatened the safety of a person or a domestic animal as
stated in division (C)(5) above.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer will cause one owner of the potentially
dangerous dog to be notified in writing that the dog is potentially dangerous.
The written notice will include dates, times and places of parties bitten or
chased in an attitude of attack.
      (3)   The Animal Control Officer may impound any dog determined to pose
an immediate threat to public safety pending a final potentially dangerous /
dangerous dog designation.
      (4)   The Animal Control Officer shall quarantine any dog without proof
of current rabies vaccination upon receiving evidence that the dog has bitten
any person or domestic animal.
      (5)   The owner of a potentially dangerous dog shall have a microchip
implanted in the dog for identification. The owner shall provide the name of
the microchip manufacturer and identification number of the microchip to the
Animal Control Officer within ten days of the designation.
      (6)   If the owner of a potentially dangerous dog fails to implant a
microchip in the dog within ten days, the Animal Control Officer may implant
the microchip and assess all related costs to the dog’s owner.
   (E)   Appeal of a potentially dangerous dog designation.
      (1)   Within five business days after receiving notice of a potentially
dangerous dog designation by the Animal Control Officer, the owner or custodian
of the dog may request a review of the designation by requesting review in
writing on a form provided by the Animal Control Officer and submitting written
evidence that disputes the declaration to the Animal Control Officer. The
Animal Control Officer shall make a final decision within seven days following
the receipt of the written request, based upon the written submissions only.
      (2)   After a dog is finally declared potentially dangerous, the owner or
custodian of the dog may request that the Animal Control Officer review the
designation annually. An administrative hearing fee of $50 shall be required
prior to such a review. At the review, the owner or custodian must provide
evidence that the dog’s behavior has changed. If the Animal Control Officer
finds sufficient evidence that the dog’s behavior has changed, the Animal
Control Officer may rescind the potentially dangerous dog designation.
   (F)   Designation of a dangerous dog.
      (1)   The Animal Control Officer shall designate any dog a dangerous dog
upon receiving evidence that the dog has, when unprovoked, inflicted
substantial harm on a person or killed a domestic animal as stated in division
(C)(2) above.
      (2)   The Animal Control Officer shall designate any dog a dangerous dog
upon receiving evidence that a dog, which has previously been declared a
potentially dangerous dog, has again bitten, attacked or threatened the safety
of a person or domestic animal as stated in division (C)(2) above.
      (3)   The Animal Control Officer may impound any dog determined to pose a
threat to public safety pending a final dangerous dog designation order.
      (4)   The Animal Control Officer shall quarantine any dog without proof
of current rabies vaccination upon receiving evidence that the dog has bitten
any person or domestic animal.
      (5)   The Animal Control Officer will cause one owner of the dog to be
notified in writing that the dog is dangerous. The written notice will include
dates, times and places of parties bitten.
      (6)   The Animal Control Officer will also provide one owner of the dog
with a dangerous dog registration form.
      (7)   Within ten days of a declaration that a dog has been deemed a
dangerous dog, the owner or custodian of the dog shall complete the dangerous
dog registration form and file it with the City Clerk’s Office with evidence
showing that:
         (a)   A proper enclosure exists for the dangerous dog and the premises
are posted with a clearly visible warning sign, including a warning symbol as
described in Minn. Rule 7417.0400, to inform children that there is a dangerous
dog on the property;
         (b)   A surety bond has been issued by a surety company authorized to
conduct business in this state in the sum of at least $300,000, payable to any
person injured by the dangerous dog, or a policy of liability insurance issued
by an insurance company authorized to conduct business in this state in the
amount of at least $300,000, insuring the owner for any personal injuries
inflicted by the dangerous dog and payable to the injured person(s);
         (c)   The owner has paid an annual fee of $50, in addition to any
regular dog licensing fees, to obtain a certificate of registration;
         (d)   The dog has had a microchip identification implanted;
         (e)   The dog has an easily identifiable tag with the uniform
dangerous animal symbol affixed to its collar at all times; and
         (f)   The dog is current in all vaccinations.
   (G)   Appeal of dangerous dog designation.
      (1)   Within five business days after a dangerous dog designation is made
by the Animal Control Officer, the owner or custodian of the dog may request a
hearing to contest the designation. The request for a hearing shall be made in
writing on a form provided by the Animal Control Officer.
      (2)   The hearing shall be held before the City Administrator and/or the
Chief of Police or by an independent hearing examiner selected by the City
Administrator, not more than 15 days after receipt of the request for hearing.
The hearing shall be open for public attendance. The proceedings shall be audio
recorded. A copy of the recording shall be made available to interested parties
no later than seven days upon completion of the hearing. A list of witnesses
and evidence such as statements, photographs, and the like, shall be exchanged
no latter than three days prior to the hearing date in order to be admissible
at the hearing. The hearing officer will make findings of fact and will either
affirm or reject the Animal Control Officer’s dangerous dog designation or may
impose other sanctions as warranted. The hearing officer shall make a final
decision within seven days of the hearing.
      (3)   If the hearing officer confirms the dangerous dog designation, the
owner or custodian of the dog shall complete the dangerous dog registration
form and file it with the City Clerk’s Office with evidence as set forth in
division (F)(7) above within ten days of final decision.
      (4)   After a dog is finally declared dangerous, the owner or custodian
of the dog may request that the Animal Control Officer review the designation
annually. An administrative hearing fee of $50 shall be required prior to such
a review. At the review, the owner or custodian must provide evidence that the
dog’s behavior has changed. If the Animal Control Officer finds sufficient
evidence that the dog’s behavior has changed, the Animal Control Officer may
rescind the dangerous dog designation.
   (H)   Destruction of dog. If no appeal is filed, the dangerous dog
designation will stand and the Animal Control Officer may order the animal
destroyed.
   (I)   Violation of dangerous dog registration.
      (1)   The Animal Control Officer shall immediately seize a dangerous dog
if:
         (a)   The dog is not maintained in a proper enclosure;
         (b)   The dog is outside the proper enclosure and not under the
physical restraint of a responsible person;
         (c)   The dog is not validly registered within ten days after the
owner has notice that the dog is dangerous; or
         (d)   The owner does not secure the proper liability insurance or
surety coverage within ten days after the owner has notice that the dog is
dangerous.
      (2)   The owner or custodian may reclaim the dog upon payment of
impounding and boarding fees, and presenting proof to the Animal Control
Officer that the requirements of M.S. §§ 347.515, 347.51, and 347.52 have been
met.
      (3)   A dangerous dog not reclaimed under this section within ten days
may be disposed of as provided by law and the owner is liable to the Animal
Control Authority for costs incurred in confining and disposing of the dog.
   (J)   Exemptions.
      (1)   The provisions of this section do not apply to police K-9 dogs used
by law enforcement officials for police work.
      (2)   Dogs may not be declared dangerous if the threat, injury, or damage
was sustained by a person:
         (a)   Who was committing, at the time, a willful trespass or other
tort upon the premises occupied by the owner of the dog;
         (b)   Who was provoking, tormenting, abusing, or assaulting the dog or
who can be shown to have repeatedly, in the past, provoked, tormented, abused,
or assaulted the dog; or
         (c)   Who was committing or attempting to commit a crime.
   (K)   Rabies quarantine.
      (1)   Whenever any dog without proof of current rabies vaccination has
bitten any person or domestic animal, the owner or custodian of the dog, upon
being notified by the Animal Control Officer or local law enforcement, will
immediately cause the dog to be quarantined with the Animal Control Authority
or by a veterinarian licensed to practice in the State of Minnesota, for a
period of ten days after the person has been bitten. In the event that the dog
owner chooses a veterinarian facility as the location for the quarantine, the
Animal Control Officer shall transport the dog to the chosen location and shall
instruct the veterinarian not to release the dog to anyone without the
permission of the Animal Control Officer.
      (2)   Within 24 hours of impoundment, a veterinarian will observe the
animal and examine the animal if necessary to ascertain whether symptoms of
rabies exist. If at the end of 14 days the veterinarian diagnoses the dog to be
free of the signs of rabies, the dog will be released from quarantine after the
dog owner has provided the Animal Control Officer with written documentation
from the veterinarian that the dog is free of signs of rabies. If the dog dies,
the dog’s head will be sent to the State Department of Health for examination
for rabies. The owner of the dog is responsible for the cost of quarantine and
examination by the veterinarian.
      (3)   Whenever any dog with proof of current rabies vaccination has
bitten any person or domestic animal, the owner or custodian of the dog, upon
being notified by the Animal Control Officer or local law enforcement, will
immediately cause the dog to be quarantined in their home for a period of ten
days after the person has been bitten. If at the end of ten days, the dog
appears to be free of rabies, the home quarantine shall end. If the dog becomes
ill or dies during the period of home quarantine, the owner shall immediately
notify the Animal Control Officer for examination.
(Ord. 2008-002, passed 7-21-2008)
KEEPING, TRANSPORTING AND TREATMENT OF ALL ANIMALS
§ 92.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL, FARM. Shall mean those animals commonly associated with a farm or
performing work in an agricultural setting. Unless otherwise defined, such
animals shall include members of the equestrian family (horses, ponies, and
mules), bovine family (cows, bulls), sheep, poultry (chickens, turkeys), fowl
(ducks, geese), swine (including Vietnamese pot-bellied pigs), goats, and other
animals associated with a farm, ranch, or stable. BACKYARD CHICKENS and HONEY
BEES as defined in this chapter are exempt from this definition.
   ANIMALS. Includes farm animals and all other animals, reptiles and feathered
birds or fowl except dogs, cats, gerbils, hamsters and caged household birds.
   APIARY. Any place or location where one or more colonies or nuclei of honey
bees are kept.
   BACKYARD CHICKEN. Shall mean a female chicken that serves as a source of
eggs or meat.
   BEEKEEPER. A person who owns or has charge of one or more colonies of honey
bees.
   BEEKEEPING EQUIPMENT. Anything used in the operation of an apiary, such as
hive bodies, supers, frames, top and bottom boards and extractors.
   COLONY. An aggregate of honey bees consisting principally of workers but
having, when perfect one queen and at times drones, brood, combs, and honey.
   COOP. Shall mean the structure for the keeping or housing of backyard
chickens as permitted by this chapter.
   FARM ANIMALS. Cattle, horses, mules, donkeys, sheep, goats, swine, ponies,
ducks, geese, turkeys, chickens, roosters, rabbits, guinea hens and honey bees.
   HIVE. A structure manufactured to house a colony, including a hive stand, a
bottom board, the hive body, frames/combs, queen excluder (optional), inner
cover, and outer cover. One HIVE houses one swarm consisting of one queen and
worker honey bees.
   HONEY BEE. Any stage of the common honey bee, apis mellifera species of
European origin.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
building development or for transfer of.
   NUCLEUS COLONY. A small quantity of honey bees with a queen housed in a
smaller than usual hive box designed for a particular purpose.
   ROOSTER. Shall mean a male chicken.
   RUN. Shall mean an area attached to a coop where backyard chickens can roam
unsupervised.
(Prior Code, § 10.11) (Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 7-6-2015; Am. Ord. 2017-03,
passed 11-16-2017)
§ 92.31 KEEPING.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep or harbor any animal, not in transit,
except:
   (A)   Farm animals kept under a stable license;
   (B)   Animals kept as part of a show licensed under the city code;
   (C)   Animals used in a parade for which a permit has been issued;
   (D)   Animals kept in a laboratory for scientific or experimental purposes;
or
   (E)   Animals kept in an animal hospital or clinic for treatment by a
licensed veterinarian.
   (F)   Keeping of backyard chickens.
      (1)   Purpose. It is recognized that the ability to cultivate one’s own
food is a sustainable activity that can also be a rewarding past time. It is
further recognized that the keeping of backyard chickens, if left unregulated,
may interfere with the residential character of certain neighborhoods.
Therefore, it is the purpose and intent of this section to permit, but strictly
limit, the keeping of backyard chickens for egg and meat sources in a clean and
sanitary manner that is not a nuisance to or detrimental to the public health,
safety, and welfare of the community.
      (2)   Keeping of backyard chickens allowed. A person may keep up to 6
backyard chickens on a residential property in the city as provided for in
Chapter 154 of this code, provided:
         (a)   The keeper of the backyard chickens resides in a detached
dwelling at the parcel at which the backyard chickens are kept;
         (b)   The subject parcel is a minimum of 10,000 square feet; and
         (c)   The owner of the subject parcel obtains a backyard chicken
permit from the city, issued in compliance with division (F)(3) of this
section.
      (3)   Permit required. A permit is required for the keeping of backyard
chickens.
         (a)   Those desiring to keep backyard chickens shall file a written
application with the City Administrator on a form provided by the city and pay
an application fee. Fees to be charged for the permit to keep backyard chickens
shall be set by City Council on the fee schedule.
         (b)   The application shall include:
            1.   The breed and number of chickens to be maintained on the
premises;
            2.   Written statements that the applicant will at all times keep
the backyard chickens in accordance with all of the conditions prescribed by
the City Administrator, or modifications thereof, and that failure to obey such
conditions will constitute a violation of the provisions of this chapter and
will be grounds for cancellation of the permit;
            3.   Such other and further information as may be required by the
City Administrator; and
            4.   The required flat fee of $20.
         (c)   The City Administrator and/or designee shall process the
application.
         (d)   All initial permits will expire on December 31 of the following
year after their issuance unless sooner revoked. Renewal permits shall expire
on December 31 of the second year following their issuance unless sooner
revoked.
         (e)   The city, upon written notice, may revoke a permit for failure
to comply with provisions of this section or any of the permit’s conditions.
         (f)   The city may inspect the premises for which a permit has been
granted in order to ensure compliance with this section. If the city is not
able to obtain the occupant’s consent to enter the property, it may seek an
administrative search warrant or revoke the permit.
      (4)   General standards and limitations for the keeping of backyard
chickens.
         (a)   The keeping of roosters as a backyard chicken is prohibited.
         (b)   Backyard chickens shall not be raised or kept for the purpose of
fighting.
         (c)   Backyard chickens shall not be kept in a dwelling, garage, or
accessory structure other than those meeting the requirements of an enclosed
coop.
         (d)   All backyard chickens must have access to an enclosed coop
meeting the following minimum standards:
            1.   The enclosed coop may not occupy a front or side yard.
            2.   The enclosed coop must have a minimum size of 4 square feet
per animal and shall not exceed a maximum of 40 square feet in total area.
            3.   The enclosed coop shall be setback a minimum of 25 feet from
any principal structure on the subject parcel and any property line. The
enclosed coop shall not exceed 10 feet in height.
            4.   The enclosed coop shall have a roof type and pitch that is
similar to the principal structure on the lot.
            5.   The enclosed coop shall be similar in color to the principal
structure on the lot.
            6.   The enclosed coop shall employ exterior building materials
that are similar in type and quality to those employed on the principal
structure.
            7.   The enclosed coop shall be constructed of permanent
residential dwelling building materials. Coop components that are not designed
or intended for use as permanent residential dwelling building materials,
including but not limited to, garage doors, tires, pallets, employment of
interior residential structural components on the exterior (drywall, particle
board, plywood), sheet metal, fiberglass panels, plastics, corrosive metal,
household items (appliance, fixtures, furniture), canvas, flimsy materials,
tarps, non-permanent items (cages, portable kennels), wire panels, and the like
are prohibited.
            8.   The floor of the enclosed coop shall be comprised of
impervious surface such as vinyl, tile, concrete, or treated wood.
            9.   The enclosed coop must be built to protect the backyard
chickens from extreme heat or cold.
            10.   The enclosed coop shall be at all times maintained in a good
condition.
            11.   The enclosed coop shall meet all applicable building,
electrical, HVAC, plumbing, and fire code requirements.
         (e)   All backyard chickens shall have access to a run meeting the
following minimum standards:
            1.   The run shall be a fully-enclosed and covered area attached to
a coop where backyard chickens can roam unsupervised.
            2.   The run shall adhere to setbacks required for enclosed coops
to which they are attached.
            3.   The enclosed run shall be well drained so there is no
accumulation of moisture.
            4.   Run components shall feature fencing materials approved for
use in residential districts as provided for in
Chapter 154 of the city code.
            5.   Run components not designed or intended for use as fence
material, including, but not limited to, garage doors, tires, pallets, sheet
metal, ribbed steel, metal siding, corrosive metal, solid (i.e. more than 90%
opaque) metal, galvanized ribbed steel, household items (appliances, fixtures,
furniture), makeshift or flimsy materials (plastic, paper, twine, rope, tin,
webbing), farm animal fencing (barbed wire, chicken wire, high tensile,
electric wire, woven wire, or other livestock fencing), canvas, tarps, non-
exterior grade residential construction materials, and the like are prohibited.
            6.   Landscaping shall be employed on the perimeter of the run to
shield view of the run from adjacent properties.
            7.   The run shall be at all times maintained in a good condition.
         (f)   The following minimum sanitation standards shall be observed at
all times:
            1.   Slaughtering of backyard chickens on the property is
prohibited.
            2.   Leg banding of all backyard chickens is required. The band
must identify the owner, the owner’s address, and the owner’s telephone number.
            3.   No chicken or chicken byproducts shall be sold in residential
districts.
            4.   All premises on which backyard chickens are kept or maintained
shall be kept clean from filth, garbage, and any substances which attract
rodents. The coop and its surrounding area must be cleaned frequently enough to
control odor. Manure shall not be allowed to accumulate in a way that causes an
unsanitary condition or causes odors detectible on another property. Failure to
comply with these conditions may result in the City Administrator and/or
enforcement officer removing backyard chickens from the premises or revoking
the backyard chicken permit.
            5.   All grain and food stored for backyard chickens shall be kept
indoors in a rodent proof container.
            6.   Backyard chickens shall not be kept in such a manner as to
constitute a nuisance as provided for under
Chapter 90 of this code.
            7.   Persons no longer intending to keep backyard chickens on the
subject property shall notify the city in writing and remove the enclosed coop
and run.
            8.   The enclosed coop and run shall be removed from the property
upon permit expiration and/or permit revocation.
   (G)   Keeping of honey bees.
      (1)   Purpose. Honey bees provide substantial benefits to people and the
environment, including but not limited to, pollination of crops and production
of honey and wax. It shall be unlawful for any person to place, establish, or
maintain any hive, stand, box, apiary, or keep any honey bees in or upon
premises within the corporate limits of the city unless the honey bees are kept
in accordance with the provisions of this subdivision.
      (2)   Keeping of honey bees.
         (a)   Permit required.
            1.   Prior to installing, altering or establishing a colony of
honey bees within a hive, the beekeeper must obtain a permit from the city.
Application for said permit shall be made to the city upon forms furnished by
the city.
            2.   The permit application shall include the following data:
               a.   Name and address of applicant and property owner;
               b.   Street address and legal description of the lot upon which
the honey bees would be kept;
               c.   A registered land survey as required by the city's fence
design standards and site plan illustrating the dimensions of the property,
location and distances of neighboring residences, and the location of the hive
in relation to any property lines, sidewalk, alleys, and right-of-ways; and
               d.   Location of any schools or licensed child day care center
located within 200 feet of property.
            3.   All applications shall be accompanied by an application fee,
as required by the city.
         (b)   The completed application must be filed with the City
Administrator and/or designee together with the permit fee 30 days prior to the
scheduled City Council meeting date. The City Administrator and/or designee
shall review the application and refer the application to the City Council. The
city shall send written notice of the Council meeting to residents within 350
feet from the applicant's property. The City Council shall hold a public
comment period and make the final decision on the application at a regularly
scheduled meeting.
         (c)   All initial permits will expire on the December 31 of the
following year after their issuance unless sooner revoked. Renewal permits
shall automatically expire on December 31 of the second year following issuance
unless sooner revoked.
         (d)   The city, upon written notice, may revoke a permit for failure
to comply with provisions of this section or any condition(s) set forth in the
permit.
      (3)   Beekeeping standards.
         (a)   Honey bee colonies meeting the requirements of this subdivision
may be kept only upon a lot containing a single dwelling unit, and within the
R-1 Single Family Residence District and the R-2 Multiple Family Residence
District.
         (b)   Only honey bee species which are viable in northern climates
according to the Department of Entomology at the University of Minnesota shall
be allowed.
         (c)   Beekeepers shall own and reside at the property upon which said
honey bees are kept.
         (d)   Colony density. The number of colonies on any lot or parcel is
limited to colony per 10,000 square feet of lot area. At no time shall a person
be permitted to keep or maintain more than 3 colonies on any lot or parcel.
         (e)   Placement of hives.
            1.   No colony or hive shall be kept or maintained within any front
yard. In the case of a corner lot, no colony or hive shall be kept or
maintained within the yard abutting an existing or dedicated public street.
            2.   No person shall establish or maintain any hive or colony
within 50 feet of any occupied dwelling, except the dwelling of the owner of
the subject property.
            3.   Hives shall be at least 25 feet from any property line,
sidewalk, alley or other public way as measured from the nearest point on the
hive to the property line, sidewalk, alley or other public right of way.
            4.   No hive shall be kept or maintained within 200 feet of a
school or licensed child day care center.
         (f)   Hive standards.
            1.   Honey bee colonies shall be kept in hives with removable
frames, which shall be kept in sound and usable condition.
            2.   Hives shall be placed on a hive stand manufactured for that
purpose and shall not be placed on cinder blocks, pallets, logs, bricks,
blocks, railroad ties, or similar materials.
            3.   Hives shall not contain hive bodies with more than a standard
10 frame design and shall not exceed 9 5/8 inches in height.
         (g)   The beekeeper shall ensure that a convenient, continuous, open
source of water is available within 25 feet of the hive, stand boxes, or
apiaries and within the required fence by the following standard.
         (h)   Fence requirement. Each Beekeeper shall enclose their property
and/or the apiary with a fence. All hives located on a lot or parcels/apiary
shall be surrounded by a solid perimeter fence measuring 6 feet in height. The
hives shall be arranged so as to ensure the hive entrance is no less than 5
feet from the fence. The perimeter fence shall include a gate which shall be
locked with a key or combination lock at all times. All fences must comply with
fence standards, §§
154.086(B) and
154.096(B) of the City Code.
         (i)   A conspicuous, weather-resistant sign identifying the site as
housing honey bees and warning of danger shall be posted at each fence entrance
and/or exit point.
         (j)   The beekeeper shall ensure that no wax comb or other material
that might encourage robbing by other honey bees are left upon the grounds of
the subject lot or parcel. Such materials once removed from the site shall be
handled and stored in sealed containers, or placed within a building or other
insect-proof container.
         (k)   The beekeeper shall maintain beekeeping equipment in good
condition and shall secure unused equipment occupancy by swarms.
         (l)   Violation/penalty. Violation of this subdivision shall be
subject to violation and penalty as prescribed in § 19 of the Zoning Ordinance
(Violations and Penalty).
      (4)   Removal.
         (a)   Honey bees shall not be kept in such a manner as to constitute a
nuisance as provided for under
Chapter 90 of the Jordan City Code, or in violation of any other subdivision of
the Jordan City Code.
         (b)   Persons no longer intending to keep honey bees on the subject
property shall notify the city in writing and remove the operation.
         (c)   The operation shall be removed from the property upon permit
expiration and/or permit revocation. Failure to remove the operation shall be
considered a nuisance under Chapter 90 of the Jordan City Code.
(Prior Code, § 10.11) (Am. Ord. 2015-08, passed 7-6-2015; Am. Ord. 2017-03,
passed 11-16-2017) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.32 ANIMALS IN TRANSIT.
   It is unlawful for any person to transport animals unless they are:
   (A)   Confined within a vehicle, cage or other means of conveyance;
   (B)   Farm animals being transported in a portion of the city zoned for
agricultural purposes; or
   (C)   Restrained by means of bridles, halters, ropes or other means of
individual restraint.
(Prior Code, § 10.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.33 TREATMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person to treat any animal herein defined, or any
other animal, in a cruel or inhumane manner.
(Prior Code, § 10.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.34 HOUSING.
   It is unlawful for any person to keep any animal herein defined, or any
other animal, in any structure infested by rodents, vermin, flies or insects,
or inadequate for protection against the elements.
(Prior Code, § 10.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.35 TRESPASSING.
   It is unlawful for any person to herd, drive or ride any animal over and
upon any grass, turf, boulevard, city park, cemetery, garden or lot without
specific permission therefor from the owner.
(Prior Code, § 10.11) Penalty, see §
10.99
OTHER REGULATIONS
§ 92.50 ANIMAL WASTE.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ANIMAL. A dog, cat or other animal.
   OWNER. Any person who harbors, feeds, boards, possesses, keeps or has
custody of an animal.
   (B)   Owner’s responsibility. The owner of any dog or any person having the
custody or control of any dog shall be responsible for cleaning up any feces of
the animal and disposing of the feces in a sanitary manner.
   (C)   Unlawful acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog to
cause or permit the dog to be on property, public or private, not owned or
possessed by the person without having in his or her immediate possession a
device for the removal of feces and the depository for the transmission of
excrement to a proper receptacle located on the property owned or possessed by
the person.
      (2)   It is unlawful for any person in control of, causing or permitting
any dog to be on any property, public or private, not owned or possession by
the person, to fail to remove feces left by the dog to a proper receptacle
located on property owned or possessed by the person.
      (3)   It is unlawful for the owner or any person having control of any
animal to allow excess accumulation of animal excrement on the property where
the animal is being housed either permanently or temporarily. Animal excrement
shall be removed in a timely manner so that it does not create an unsanitary
condition or so that the odor creates an annoyance to neighbors or the public.
   (D)   Exception. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
ownership or use of dogs certified by the State of Minnesota as service dogs,
seeing-eye dogs by blind persons, dogs when used in police activities by the
city, or tracking dogs when used by or with the permission of the city.
   (E)   Persons authorized to issue citations. Any peace officer, animal
control officer, park ranger, duly authorized assistant, duly authorized agent,
or person authorized by the health officer may issue citations for violation of
this section.
   (F)   Penalty. Any person violating this section shall be punished by a fine
in an amount set by resolution of the Council or 5 hours of public lands fecal
cleanup. Any person who is found guilty of subsequent violations of this
section shall be punished by a fine in an amount set by resolution of the
Council.
(Prior Code, § 10.12) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.51 WILD ANIMAL REGULATION.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is adopted for the purpose of protecting the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the city.
   (B)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      WILD ANIMAL. Any animal, fowl, or reptile not of the traditional
domesticated species, which is inherently dangerous by nature, and is
traditionally found in the wild. This term includes, but is not limited to,
animals such as: deer, skunk, opossum, raccoon, mink, bear, armadillo, coyote,
squirrel, fox, wolf, cougar, lion, tiger, or hybrids thereof.
   (C)   Wild animal restrictions. It is unlawful for any person to keep,
shelter or harbor any wild animal within the city limits.
(Prior Code, § 10.13) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   The owner of a dog declared dangerous or potentially dangerous who fails to
comply with the requirements of §
92.17 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, with penalties as provided under
Minnesota law.
(Ord. 2008-002, passed 7-21-2008)
CHAPTER 93: FIRE PREVENTION; FIRE CODE
Section
   
93.01   Adoption of International Fire Code
   
93.02   Storage of flammable and explosive materials
   
93.03   Listing of flammable materials
§ 93.01 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   (A)   The International Fire Code is hereby adopted as the code of the City
of Jordan for regulating and governing the safeguarding of life and property
from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of
hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to
life or property in the occupancy of buildings and premises in the City of
Jordan. One copy will be on file in the office of City Hall of the City of
Jordan, marked and designated as the International Fire Code, including all
amendments by the State of Minnesota, as published by the International Code
Council. The document will provide for the issuance of permits for hazardous
uses or operations; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions
and terms of such International Fire Code, 2000 edition, published by the
International Code Council, on file in the office of the City of Jordan are
hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof as if fully set out in this
section.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
   Section 101.1 Insert: City of Jordan
   Section 109.3 As amended by the State of Minnesota Section 111.4
   (C)   The limits referred to in certain sections of the 2000 International
Fire Code are hereby established as follows:
   Section 3204.3.1.1 (limits in which the storage of flammable cryogenic
fluids in stationary containers is prohibited): As adopted by the State of
Minnesota
   Section 3404.2.9.5.2 (limits in which the storage of Class I and Class II
liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is prohibited): As adopted
by the State of Minnesota
   Section 3406.2.4.4 (limits in which the storage of Class I and Class II
liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited): As adopted by the State of
Minnesota
   Section 3804.2 (limits in which the storage of liquified petroleum gas is
restricted for the protection of heavily populated or congested areas): As
adopted by the State of Minnesota
(Prior Code, § 10.22) (Am. Ord. 71, Second Series, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 93.02 STORAGE OF FLAMMABLE AND EXPLOSIVE MATERIALS.
   Present installations for the purpose of storage of flammable liquid,
liquified petroleum gas and explosives and blasting agents may continue in the
Agricultural District. Provided, however, that the installations shall not be
expanded and no new installations for such purpose are allowed without a
special permit from the Council. The Chief of Police and the Chief of the Fire
Department, shall investigate an application for a new installation and the
City Council shall hold on the application to determine whether to approve the
application.
(Prior Code, § 10.22)
§ 93.03 LISTING OF FLAMMABLE MATERIALS.
   All businesses shall have a list of all flammable materials on their
premises on file with the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 10.22)
CHAPTER 94: PARK REGULATIONS
Section
   
94.01   Traffic prohibited
   
94.02   General rules
   
94.03   Hours and conduct
   
94.04   Animals in the park
   
94.05   Weapons and fireworks
   
94.06   Equipment
   
94.07   Rules and regulations
   
94.08   City employees
   
94.09   A veterans park
§ 94.01 TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any person to drive a self-propelled or motorized
vehicle, except an electrically propelled wheelchair, in any park, playground,
recreational area or athletic field owned or maintained by the city except upon
a street or other public thoroughfare therein; provided, that this section
shall not apply to construction or maintenance equipment operated by, or under
a contract with, the city and within the scope of such operation or contract.
(Prior Code, § 10.50) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.02 GENERAL RULES.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any park or recreation area, to:
   (A)   Deface, destroy, tamper with, injure, or remove any city property,
including, but not limited to, furniture, structures, vegetation, signs or
soils;
   (B)   Scatter or litter the grounds or any lake, pond, or watercourse within
or draining into a park with any form of trash, but shall place such material
in the proper receptacles where these are provided; where receptacles are not
provided, all such trash shall be carried away from the area by the person
responsible for its presence;
   (C)   Start a fire, except a small fire for cooking purposes in a designated
area, and then only in a fire ring, grill or portable stove, or fail to fully
extinguish such a fire;
   (D)   Powered model aircraft may only be flown in areas which will not
interfere with sport games or any other park activities;
   (E)   Sell, solicit or conduct any commercial enterprise unless authorized
by written permit from the City Council;
   (F)   Play games which interfere with appropriate use of the rinks, sledding
or tobogganing areas or use hockey sticks or pucks in areas not designated for
hockey play or loiter on the ice or in park buildings;
   (G)   Paste, affix or inscribe any handbill, poster or sign or distribute
handbills, circulars or announcements of any kind for a commercial purpose;
and/or
   (H)   Possess liquids in containers made of glass.
(Ord. 2007-012, passed 9-4-2007) Penalty, see §  
10.99
§ 94.03 HOURS AND CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any park or recreation area, to:
   (A)   Remain between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. without a written permit from
the City Council. No privately-owned vehicle shall remain during these same
hours without a written permit. Any vehicle remaining after 10:00 p.m. without
authorization shall be towed at the owner's expense;
   (B)   Behave in an unruly manner disrupting others' enjoyment of the park or
recreation area;
   (C)   Bring wine or intoxicating liquor into a park unless otherwise
authorized by written permit from the Council. Park users may bring beer and
malt liquor into a park or recreational areas in non-glass containers provided
it is not sold or distributed for any type of remuneration except as permitted
by a special permit from the city (see §
111.05(A));
   (D)   Use, possess or sell any controlled substance;
   (E)   Appear nude, seminude, commit any nuisance or use threatening,
abusing, insulting, obscene or indecent language or act in an indecent,
lascivious, or improper manner or do any act which constitutes a breach of the
public peace;
   (F)   Harass any visitor or behave in a reckless manner which would endanger
any visitor or visitor's property;
   (G)   Swim or wade except in designated areas;
   (H)   Park a bike in such a manner as to create a hazard or interfere with
other visitors or activities;
   (I)   Engage in any form of gambling;
   (J)   Strike or otherwise propel a regulation golf ball; and/or
   (K)   Disobey any reasonable order or direction of any city employee, law
enforcement officer, or other person designated by the City Council to give
such orders or directions.
   (L)   Permit any pets of any kind in the Lagoon Park swimming area or
designated beach area.
   (M)   Smoke on the sand beach or in the designated swimming areas of Lagoon
Park.
   (N)   Enter the waters or swim in the Mill Pond in Lagoon Park after dusk.
   (O)   Possess or consume any alcoholic beverages in the beach area of the
Lagoon Park Mill Pond swimming beach.
(Ord. 2007-012, passed 9-4-2007; Am. Ord. 2009-006, passed 6-15-2009) Penalty,
see §  
10.99
§ 94.04 ANIMALS IN THE PARK.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any park or recreation area, to:
   (A)   Kill, trap, hunt, pursue or in any manner disturb or cause to be
disturbed any wildlife, except that fishing is permitted. City staff are
permitted to remove wildlife as necessary to promote the health and safety of
park users;
   (B)   Bring any dog, cat or other creature unless caged or kept on a rope or
leash that is shortened to bring the animal within 6 feet of the handler when a
dog or a person is within 20 feet of the animal;
   (C)   Permit a creature to disturb, harass, or interfere with or endanger
any visitor or visitor's property, or tether any creature to a tree, plant,
building or park equipment;
   (D)   Ride, lead or permit a horse, except in designated riding areas;
   (E)   Permit a creature to enter unauthorized areas. Unauthorized areas are
active play areas, picnic areas and park buildings;
   (F)   Release any insect, fish, animal or other wildlife or introduce any
plant, chemical or other agent potentially harmful to the vegetation, water
supply or wildlife of the area; and/or
   (G)   Fail to clean up feces deposited on park grounds by any animal brought
into the park.
(Ord. 2007-012, passed 9-4-2007) Penalty, see §  
10.99
§ 94.05 WEAPONS AND FIREWORKS.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any park or recreation area, to:
   (A)   Possess, carry, fire or discharge any firearm within or into any park
or recreation area from beyond its boundaries, except that authorized bows and
arrows may be permitted in designated archery areas; and/or
   (B)   Discharge any fireworks without a permit from the City Council.
(Ord. 2007-012, passed 9-4-2007) Penalty, see §  
10.99
§ 94.06 EQUIPMENT.
   It is unlawful for any person, in any park or recreation area, to operate a
motor boat or other self-propelled watercraft unless permitted by the city or
for maintenance purposes. Non-motorized watercraft are permitted.
(Ord. 2007-012, passed 9-4-2007) Penalty, see §  
10.99
§ 94.07 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Council or City Administrator shall have the right to issue
additional administrative rules and regulations relative to but not conflicting
with this chapter. No person shall violate such rules or regulations, and any
such violation may be subject to penalties of this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-012, passed 9-4-2007)
§ 94.08 CITY EMPLOYEES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent city employees including law
enforcement officers from performing their assigned duties.
(Ord. 2007-012, passed 9-4-2007)
§ 94.09 A VETERANS PARK.
   The city hereby provides for the erection, equipment, and maintenance of a
park in recognition of the services provided by members of the military as
allowed by Minnesota Statutes. The real property constituting the park and any
equipment placed within the park shall remain the sole property of the city.
However, pursuant to Minnesota Statutes, the city may enter into a joint powers
agreement with incorporated veterans groups allocating maintenance
responsibilities, avenues of funding, and record-keeping responsibilities. The
park use regulations described above in this chapter shall apply to the
veterans park.
(Ord. 2014-10, passed 8-4-2014)
CHAPTER 95: CLANDESTINE DRUG LAB SITES
Section
   
95.01   County ordinance adopted by reference
§ 95.01 COUNTY ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city hereby adopts Scott County Ordinance No. 25 Cleanup of Clandestine
Drug Lab Sites Ordinance in its entirety and any future amendments or
modifications made to the ordinance as voted on by the Scott County Board of
Commissioners. A copy of Scott County Ordinance No. 25 shall be kept on file
with the City of Jordan’s Clerk’s Office and shall be available for public
inspection.
(Ord. 63, passed 3-6-2006)
CHAPTER 96: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
96.01   Ice and snow on public sidewalks
   
96.02   Construction and reconstruction of roadway surfacing, curb and gutter
   
96.03   Sidewalk maintenance and repair
   
96.04   Obstructions in streets
   
96.05   Street openings or excavations
   
96.06   Vacation of streets
   
96.07   Limiting speed and time of railway-street crossing obstruction
   
96.08   Requirement of sewer and water main service lateral installation
   
96.09   Fishing from bridges
   
96.10   Targeted residential picketing
   
96.11   Street maintenance equipment fees required
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 ICE AND SNOW ON PUBLIC SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Ice and snow a nuisance. All snow and ice remaining upon public
sidewalks is hereby declared to constitute a public nuisance and shall be
abated by the owner or tenant of the abutting private property within 12 hours
after the snow or ice has ceased to be deposited thereon in commercial areas
and 24 hours after its deposit thereon in residential areas.
   (B)   City to remove snow and ice. The city may cause to be removed from all
commercial public sidewalks, beginning 24 hours after snow or ice has ceased to
fall, and beginning 48 hours in residential areas, all snow or ice which may be
discovered thereon, and it shall keep a record of the cost of the removal and
the private property adjacent to which such accumulations were found and
removed.
   (C)   Cost of removal to be assessed. The City Administrator shall, upon
direction of the Council, and on receipt of the information provided for in the
preceding subdivision, extend the cost of the removal of snow or ice as a
special assessment against the lots or parcel of ground abutting on walks which
were cleared, and such special assessments shall at the time of certifying
taxes to the County Auditor be certified for collection as other special
assessments are certified and collected.
(Prior Code, § 7.05)
§ 96.02 CONSTRUCTION AND RECONSTRUCTION OF ROADWAY SURFACING, CURB AND GUTTER.
   (A)   Methods of procedure.
      (1)   Abutting or affected property owners may contract for, construct or
reconstruct roadway surfacing or curb and gutter in accordance with this
section if advance payment is made therefor or arrangements for payment
considered adequate by the city are completed in advance.
      (2)   With or without petition by the methods set forth in the Local
Improvement Code of Minnesota Statutes, presently beginning with M.S. Chapter
429, as the same may from time to time be amended.
   (B)   Permit required. It is a misdemeanor to construct or reconstruct a
curb and gutter, curb cut, driveway, or roadway surfacing in any street or
other public property in the city without a permit. Application for the permit
shall be made on forms approved and provided by the city and shall sufficiently
describe the contemplated improvements, the contemplated date of beginning of
work, and the length of time required to complete the same, provided, that no
permit shall be required for any such improvement ordered installed by the
Council. No permit shall be issued without approval by the City Administrator.
Permits denied can be appealed to the Council. All such applications shall
contain an agreement by the applicant to be bound by this chapter and plans and
specifications consistent with the provisions of this chapter and good
engineering practices shall also accompany the application. A permit from the
city shall not relieve the holder from damages to the person or property of
another caused by the work.
   (C)   Specifications and standards. All construction and reconstruction of
roadway surfacing and curb and gutter improvements, including curb cuts, shall
be strictly in accordance with specifications and standards on file in the
office of the City Administrator and open to inspection and copying there. The
specifications and standards may be amended from time to time by the city, but
shall be uniformly enforced.
   (D)   Inspection. The Public Works Director shall inspect the improvements
as deemed necessary or advisable. Any work not done according to the applicable
specifications and standards shall be removed and corrected at the expense of
the permit holder. Any work done hereunder may be stopped by the Public Works
Director if found to be unsatisfactory or not in accordance with the
specifications and standards, but this shall not place a continuing burden upon
the city to inspect or supervise the work.
(Prior Code, § 7.06)
§ 96.03 SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   (A)   Construction, reconstruction and repair specifications. All
construction, reconstruction or repair of sidewalks shall be done in strict
accordance with specifications on file in the office of the City Administrator.
   (B)   Notice; no emergency. Where, in the opinion of the Public Works
Director, no emergency exists, notice of the required repair or reconstruction
shall be given to the owner of the abutting property. The notice shall require
completion of the work within 90 days, and shall be mailed to the owner or
owners shown to be such on the records of the county officer who mails tax
statements.
   (C)   Notice; emergency. Where, in the opinion of the Public Works Director,
an emergency exists, notice of the required repair or reconstruction shall be
given to the owner of the abutting property. The notice shall require
completion of the work within 10 days, and shall be mailed to the owner or
owners shown to be such on the records of the County Officer who mails tax
statements.
   (D)   Failure of owner to reconstruct or make repairs. If the owner of the
abutting property fails to make repairs or accomplish reconstruction as herein
required, the Public Works Director shall report the failure to the Council and
the Council may order the work to be done under its direction and the cost
thereof assessed to the abutting property owner as any other special
assessment.
(Prior Code, § 7.07)
§ 96.04 OBSTRUCTIONS IN STREETS.
   (A)   Obstructions. It is a misdemeanor for any person to place, deposit,
display or offer for sale, any fence, goods or other obstructions upon, over,
across or under any street without first having obtained a written permit from
the Council, and then only in compliance in all respects with the terms and
conditions of the permit, and taking precautionary measures for the protection
of the public. An electrical cord or device of any kind is hereby included, but
not by way of limitation, within the definition of an obstruction.
   (B)   Fires. It is a misdemeanor for any person to build or maintain a fire
upon a street.
   (C)   Dumping in streets. It is a misdemeanor for any person to throw or
deposit in any street any nails, dirt, glass or glassware, cans, discarded
cloth or clothing, metal scraps, garbage, leaves, grass or tree limbs, paper or
paper products, shreds or rubbish, oil, grease or other petroleum products, or
to empty any water containing salt or other injurious chemical thereon. It is a
violation of this section to haul any such material, inadequately enclosed or
covered, thereby permitting the same to fall upon streets. It is also a
violation of this section to place or store any building materials or waste
resulting from building construction or demolition on any street without first
having obtained a written permit from the Council.
   (D)   Signs and other structures. It is a misdemeanor for any person to
place or maintain a sign, advertisement, or other structure in any street
without first having obtained a written permit from the Council. In a district
zoned for commercial or industrial enterprises special permission allowing an
applicant to erect and maintain signs overhanging the street may be granted
upon such terms and conditions as may be set forth in the zoning or
construction provisions of the City Code.
   (E)   Placing snow or ice in a roadway or on a sidewalk.
      (1)   It is a misdemeanor for any person, not acting under a specific
contract with the city or without special permission from the city, to remove
snow or ice from private property and place the same in any roadway or on a
sidewalk.
      (2)   Where permission is granted by the city the person to whom the
permission is granted shall be initially responsible for payment of all direct
or indirect costs of removing the snow or ice from the street or sidewalk. If
not paid, collection shall be by assessment against the benefitted property as
any other special assessment.
   (F)   Continuing violation. Each day that any person continues in violation
of this section shall be a separate offense and punishable as such.
   (G)   Condition. Before granting any permit under any of the provisions of
this section, the Council may impose such insurance or bonding conditions
thereon as it, considering the projected danger to public or private property
or to persons, deems proper for safeguarding the persons and property. The
insurance or bond shall also protect the city from any suit, action or cause of
action arising by reason of the obstruction.
   (H)   Civil administrative fee. The city, at its discretion, may impose a
civil administrative fee in lieu of a criminal citation for violation of this
section. The civil administrative fee for violation of this section will be set
by the City Council in the city’s fee schedule, and reviewed on a yearly basis.
(Prior Code, § 7.08) (Am. Ord. 2007-005, passed 3-19-2007 )
§ 96.05 STREET OPENINGS OR EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful act. It is a misdemeanor for any person, except (1) a city
employee acting within the course and scope of his or her employment, (2) a
contractor acting within the course and scope of a contract with the city, or
(3) a franchisee acting within the course and scope of its franchise from the
city, to make any excavation, opening or tunnel in, over, across or under a
street or other public property without first having obtained a written permit
from the city as herein provided.
   (B)   Application and investigation.
      (1)   Application for a permit to make a street opening or excavation
shall describe with reasonable particularity the name and address of the
applicant, the place of the proposed excavation, its purpose and size, the name
and address of all owners and the legal description of the premises to be
served by the excavation, and such other information as may be necessary or
desirable to facilitate the investigation, estimate costs, and prepare an
agreement. Applications shall be accepted from, and permits issued to, all of
the owners of the premises to be served by the excavation. Provided, that if
the owners will not actually perform the work, their contractor or other person
must join in the application as their agent.
      (2)   The City Administrator shall refer the application to the Public
Works Director who shall cause the investigation to be made as he or she may
deem necessary to determine the estimated cost of repair, including back-
filling, compacting, resurfacing and replacement, and the time and manner of
procedure and the time limitation upon the excavation. The Public Works
Director shall estimate the cost, including temporary and permanent repairs due
to weather and other conditions, and the cost of the investigation shall be
included in the estimate.
   (C)   Manner of performance. All temporary and permanent repairs, including
back-filling, compacting, and resurfacing, shall be made, or contracted for, by
the permittee strictly in accordance with specifications for street opening
repairs as promulgated by the city and under the direction of the Public Works
Director. If the Public Works Director finds that those specifications are not
being strictly adhered to he or she shall stop the work immediately and it
shall be treated as abandoned. The Public Works Director shall endorse the
permit as satisfactorily completed or abandoned. The specifications for street
opening repairs and the duties of the Public Works Director shall apply equally
to all excavations by permittees, city employees, contractors with the city,
and franchisees.
   (D)   Abandonment. Work shall progress expeditiously to completion in
accordance with any time limitation placed thereon so as to avoid unnecessary
inconvenience to the public. In the event that work is not performed in
accordance with the permit, or shall cease or be abandoned, the City
Administrator may give notice in writing to the permittee(s) to complete the
work within 14 days or the city will perform the work in which case the cost
thereof shall be a continuing obligation, jointly and severally, of the
permittee and owners of the premises to be served.
   (E)   Insurance and indemnification. No permit shall be issued until:
      (1)   The applicant has furnished the city satisfactory evidence in
writing that the applicant will keep in effect public liability insurance in an
amount to be determined by the Council following review of the application,
issued by an insurance company authorized to do business in the State of
Minnesota and on which the city is named as a co-insured; and
      (2)   The applicant and all owners have agreed in writing to indemnify
and hold the city harmless from any liability for injury or damage arising out
of the action of the applicant in performance of the work, or any expense
whatsoever incurred by the city incident to a claim or action brought or
commenced by any person arising therefrom.
   (F)   Issuance of permit. The City Administrator shall issue the permit only
after:
      (1)   Completion of the investigation;
      (2)   Payment by the applicant in advance of all estimated costs to be
incurred by the city;
      (3)   Agreement by the applicant and owners to the conditions of time and
manner of performance;
      (4)   Agreement by the applicant and owners to pay all actual costs of
repairs over and above the estimate;
      (5)   Agreement in writing by the applicant and owners to be bound by all
of the provisions of this section and the specifications hereinbefore referred
to; and
      (6)   Agreement by the applicant(s) to such other and additional
conditions as the Council may deem necessary.
   (G)   Cost adjustment and warranty. Within 60 days following completion of
permanent repairs, the City Administrator shall determine actual costs of
repairs, including cost of investigation, and prepare and furnish to the
permittee(s) an itemized statement thereof and claim additional payment from,
or make refund (without interest) to, the permittee(s), as the case may be. The
permittee(s) shall be responsible for any damages by way of settlement or
defect in the resurfacing for a period of 1 year following the completion of
the work.
   (H)   Assessment. Any uncollected costs to the city may, at the option of
the city, be collected in a civil action, or certified as a special assessment.
   (I)   Map of subsurface installations. The Public Works Director shall
maintain a map showing the location of all utility and other installations made
beneath the surface of any public street, grounds or right-of-way. The
information on the map shall be sufficiently complete and accurate to permit
anyone making an excavation in a public place having any underground
installation and to properly locate any new underground facilities shall be
recorded on the map as soon as practicable upon the issuance of an excavation
permit or the completion of a contract for the installation of city underground
installations.
(Prior Code, § 7.09)
§ 96.06 VACATION OF STREETS.
   (A)   No public grounds or streets shall be vacated except upon the
Council’s own motion or upon the petition directed to the Council of a majority
of the owners of property on the line of the public grounds or streets residing
within the city, and completion of the procedure hereinafter specified. The
petition shall set forth the reasons for the desired vacation, accompanied by a
plat of the public grounds or streets proposed to be vacated, and the petition
shall be verified by the oath of a majority of the petitioners residing within
the city.
   (B)   If, in the discretion of the Council, it is expedient that the matter
be proceeded with, it may order the petition filed for record with the City
Administrator, order a hearing on the petition and fix the time and place of
the hearing.
   (C)   The City Administrator shall give notice of the hearing by publication
once at least 15 days in advance of the hearing, and by mail to the last known
address of all of the owners of property on the line of the public grounds or
streets proposed to be vacated at least 10 days in advance of the hearing, the
last known addresses to be obtained from the office of the County Auditor. The
notice shall in brief state the object of the hearing, the time, place and
purpose thereof, and the fact that the Council, or a Board or Commission
designated by them shall hear the testimony and examine the evidence of the
parties interested.
   (D)   The Council, after hearing the same, or upon the report of the Board
or Commission designated to hold the hearings, may by resolution passed by
majority vote of all members, declare the public grounds or streets vacated, or
deny the petition. The resolution, if granting the petition, shall be certified
by the City Administrator and shall be filed for record and duly recorded in
the office of the County Recorder in and for Scott County, Minnesota.
(Prior Code, § 7.10)
§ 96.07 LIMITING SPEED AND TIME OF RAILWAY-STREET CROSSING OBSTRUCTION.
   It is a misdemeanor for any person operating or in charge of a railroad
train, car, engine, locomotive, or other railroad equipment, or combination
thereof, to so operate, park or leave the same standing upon the railroad at
its intersection with a street, so as to prevent unobstructed vehicular traffic
on the street for a period longer than 10 minutes, or to so operate it without
a bell of the usual size as may be attached to the equipment, and as
circumstances warrant, whistles, with which to provide a sufficient warning.
(Prior Code, § 7.12)
§ 96.08 REQUIREMENT OF SEWER AND WATER MAIN SERVICE LATERAL INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Requirement of sewer and water laterals. No petition for the
improvement of a street shall be considered by the Council if the petition
contemplates constructing therein any part of a pavement or stabilized base, or
curb and gutter, unless all sewer and water main installations shall have been
made therein, including the installation of service laterals to the curb, if
the area along the street will be served by the utilities installed in the
street.
   (B)   Sewer system service and water main service laterals. No sewer system
shall be hereafter constructed or extended unless service laterals to platted
lots and frontage facing thereon shall be extended simultaneously with
construction of mains.
   (C)   Waiver. The Council may waive the requirements of this section only if
it finds the effects thereof are burdensome and upon such notice and hearing as
the Council may deem necessary or proper.
(Prior Code, § 7.13)
§ 96.09 FISHING FROM BRIDGES.
   It is unlawful for any person to catch, or attempt to catch, fish from any
bridge where the prohibition is clearly sign-posted.
(Prior Code, § 7.17) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 96.10 TARGETED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING.
   The city has an interest in the protection of residential privacy, safety,
well-being and tranquility of a person's private residence, and in protecting
citizens from unwanted speech when they are a captive audience within their
private residence. The City Council finds that without resorting to targeted
residential picketing, ample opportunities exist for those otherwise engaged in
targeted residential picketing to exercise constitutionally protected freedoms
of speech and expression.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OCCUPANT. Any person who has some legal right to possess or control the
residential building.
      PICKETING. The act of exercising constitutionally protected freedom of
speech and expression by 1 or more persons on a public street, pathway or on
other public property.
      TARGETED RESIDENTIAL PICKETING.
         (a)   Marching, standing, patrolling, or picketing by one or more
persons in front of or adjacent to particular residential building that is
directed solely at a particular residential building in a manner that adversely
affects the safety, security, privacy, or tranquility of an occupant of the
building without the consent of the occupants; or
         (b)   Marching, standing, patrolling, or picketing by one or more
persons in front of or adjacent to particular residential building which
prevents an occupant of a residential building from gaining access to or
exiting from the property on which the residential building is located without
the consent of the occupants.
   (B)   Targeted residential picketing unlawful. It is unlawful for any person
to conduct targeted residential picketing within the city. It is not unlawful
for otherwise permissible picketing to occur on public streets and sidewalks
that run through a residential area.
   (C)   Penalty. Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7.18) (Am. 2021-05, passed 3-15-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 96.11 STREET MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT FEES REQUIRED.
   (A)   A subdivision contract shall require the subdivider to pay a Street
Maintenance Equipment Fund fee at the time the City Council approves the
subdivision contract.
   (B)   The fee will be set by ordinance of the City Council on an annual
basis to reflect the cost of equipment acquisition.
   (C)   Funds collected for this purpose shall be dedicated to street
maintenance equipment acquisition.
(Ord. 28, Second Series, passed 3-20-2000)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any person whose actions are not in compliance with this title shall, upon
conviction, be punished as follows:
   (A)   Where the particular section or provision specifically makes violation
a misdemeanor, the offender shall be punished as for a misdemeanor; where a
violation is committed in a manner or under circumstances so as to endanger or
be likely to endanger any person or property, the offender shall be punished as
for a misdemeanor; where the offender has been convicted of 3 or more
violations of this title within a 12-month period, exclusive of violations
relating to the standing or parking of an unattended vehicle, the offender
shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
   (B)   As to any violation not constituting a misdemeanor under the
provisions of division (A) above, the offender shall be punished as for a petty
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7.99)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
112.   AMUSEMENTS AND FUNCTIONS
      
113.   TOBACCO AND ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE REGULATIONS
      
114.   REGULATIONS FOR CHARITABLE GAMBLING
      
115.   PEDDLING AND SOLICITING
      
116.   GARBAGE HAULERS
      
117.   ANIMAL BUSINESSES
      
118.   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE
      
119.   RESERVED
      
120.   PAWNBROKERS, PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
      
121.   FIREARM AND/OR WEAPONS SALES
      
122.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
123.   TAXICAB COMPANIES AND DRIVERS
      
124.   RESIDENTIAL RENTAL LICENSING AND INSPECTIONS
      
125.   MOBILE FOOD UNITS
      
126.   SALE OF THC AND CANNABIS PRODUCTS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Applications
   
110.03   Action on application, transfer, termination and duplicate license
   
110.04   Fixing license fees
   
110.05   Carrying or posting
   
110.06   Penalty for property owner
   
110.07   Responsibility of licensee
   
110.08   Conditional licenses
   
110.09   Renewal of licenses
   
110.10   Insurance requirements
   
110.11   License denial and fixing rates; hearing
   
110.12   Workers’ compensation
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person making an application for a license under this
chapter.
   APPLICATION. A form with blanks or spaces thereon, to be filled in and
completed by the applicant as his or her request for a license, furnished by
the city and uniformly required as a prerequisite to the consideration of the
issuance of a license for a business.
   BOND. A corporate surety document in the form and with the provisions
acceptable and specifically approved by the City Attorney.
   BUSINESS. Any activity, occupation, sale of goods or services, or
transaction that is either licensed or regulated, or both licensed and
regulated, by the terms and conditions of this chapter.
   LICENSE. A document issued by the city to an applicant permitting him or her
to carry on and transact a business.
   LICENSEE. An applicant who, pursuant to his or her application, holds a
valid, current, unexpired and unrevoked license from the city for carrying on a
business.
   LICENSE FEE. The money paid to the city pursuant to an application and prior
to issuance of a license to transact and carry on a business.
   SALE, SELL and SOLD. All forms of barter and all manner or means of
furnishing merchandise to persons.
(Prior Code, § 6.01)
§ 110.02 APPLICATIONS.
   Businesses in general are not regulated or licensed by the city, with the
exception of the following: Street dancing; large assemblies or shows; liquor
sales; tobacco sales; gambling; solicitation; garbage, refuse and recycling
haulers; kennels; sauna and massage parlors; stables; tattooing; pawnbrokers,
precious metal dealers and secondhand dealers. Businesses requiring licensing
shall make application, as follows:
   (A)   All applications shall be made at the office of the City Administrator
upon forms that have been furnished by the city for such purposes.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided for in this title, all such applications
must be subscribed, sworn to, and include such information as the Council deems
necessary considering the nature of the business for which license application
is made.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any applicant to intentionally make a false
statement or omission upon any application form. Any false statement in the
application, or any willful failure to state any information called for on the
application form, shall, upon discovery of such falsehood result in denial of a
license, or if already issued, shall void the license or permit.
   (D)   Upon receipt of each completed application, the City Administrator or
designee shall investigate, as deemed necessary, the statements made in the
application and the moral character and business reputation of each applicant.
The Council shall not consider an application before the investigation has been
completed.
   (E)   Applications for renewal licenses may be made in such abbreviated form
as the Council may by resolution adopt.
(Prior Code, § 6.02)
§ 110.03 ACTION ON APPLICATION, TRANSFER, TERMINATION AND DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   (A)   Approval. The Council may approve any application for the period of
the remainder of the then current calendar year or for the entire upcoming
license year. All applications, including proposed license periods, must be
consistent with this chapter.
   (B)   Issuing. If an application is approved, the City Administrator shall
issue a license in the form prescribed by the Council, upon payment of the
appropriate license fee, and receipt of an acceptable bond or insurance, if
required. All licenses shall be issued on a calendar year basis unless
otherwise specified herein. If issued for less than a calendar year, license
fees shall be pro-rated on the basis of 1/12 for each calendar month or part
thereof remaining in the license calendar year with a minimum license fee equal
to ½ of the annual license fee regardless of the length of the license period.
Except as to licenses which are specifically city-wide, licenses shall be valid
only at one location and on the premises therein described.
   (C)   Transfer. Unless otherwise provided herein, no license shall be
transferable between persons or to a different location without City Council
approval. It is unlawful to make any transfer in violation of this division.
   (D)   Termination. Licenses shall terminate by expiration, failure to renew
or revocation.
   (E)   Refusal and revocation. The Council may, for any reasonable cause,
refuse to grant any application, renew an application, or revoke any license.
No license shall be granted to a person of questionable moral character or
business reputation. Before revocation of any license, the Council, at a public
hearing, shall grant the licensee, and other interested persons, the
opportunity to be heard. The city shall provide written notice via certified
mail of the date and time of hearing. Grounds for revocation may be, but are
not limited to, any of the following:
      (1)   That the licensee permitted illegal acts upon licensed premises;
      (2)   That the licensee had knowledge of the illegal acts but failed to
report the same to police;
      (3)   That the licensee failed or refused to cooperate fully with police
in investigating the alleged illegal acts; or
      (4)   That the activities of the licensee created a serious danger to
public health, safety or welfare.
   (F)   Duplicate license. Duplicates of all original licenses may be issued
by the City Administrator, without action by the Council, upon licensee’s
affidavit that the original has been lost, and upon payment of a fee in an
amount adopted by resolution of the Council for issuance of the duplicate. All
duplicate licenses shall be clearly marked “DUPLICATE”.
(Prior Code, § 6.03)
§ 110.04 FIXING LICENSE FEES.
   Except as otherwise herein provided, all fees for licenses (late fee
penalties, and investigation of applicants) under this chapter shall be fixed
and determined by the Council, adopted by ordinance, and uniformly enforced.
The license fees may, from time-to-time, be amended by the Council by
ordinance. A copy of the ordinance setting forth currently effective license
fees shall be kept on file in the office of the City Administrator, and open to
inspection during regular business hours. For the purpose of fixing such fees,
the Council may subdivide and categorize licenses under a specific license
requirement, provided, that any such subdivision or categorization shall be
included in the resolution authorized by this section.
(Prior Code, § 6.04)
§ 110.05 CARRYING OR POSTING.
   All solicitors shall at all times when so engaged, carry their license on
their person. All other licensees shall post their licenses in their place of
business near the licensed activity. In the case of machine or other device
licensing, the city may provide a sticker for the current license year which
shall be affixed to each machine or device requiring the sticker. All licensees
shall display their licenses upon demand by any officer or citizen.
(Prior Code, § 6.05)
§ 110.06 PENALTY FOR PROPERTY OWNER.
   It is unlawful for any person to knowingly permit any real property owned or
controlled by him or her to be used, without a license, for any business for
which a license is required by this title.
(Prior Code, § 6.06) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 RESPONSIBILITY OF LICENSEE.
   The conduct of agents or employees of a licensee, while engaged in
performance of their duties for their principal or employer under the license,
except as to criminal liability therefor, shall be deemed the conduct of the
licensee.
(Prior Code, § 6.07)
§ 110.08 CONDITIONAL LICENSES.
   Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the Council may, upon
a finding of the necessity therefor, place such conditions and restrictions
upon a license as it, in its discretion, may deem reasonable and justified.
(Prior Code, § 6.08)
§ 110.09 RENEWAL OF LICENSES.
   Applications for renewal of an existing license shall be made at least 30
days prior to the date of expiration of the license, and shall contain such
information as is required by the city. This time requirement may be waived by
the Council for good and sufficient cause.
(Prior Code, § 6.09)
§ 110.10 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Whenever insurance is required by a section of this title, after
approval by the Council, but before the license shall issue, the applicant
shall file with the City Administrator a policy or certificate of public
liability insurance showing:
      (1)   That the limits are at least as high as required by the relevant
statute;
      (2)   That coverage is effective for at least the license term approved;
and
      (3)   That the insurance will not be cancelled or terminated without 30
days’ written notice served upon the City Administrator.
   (B)   Cancellation or termination of the coverage shall be grounds for
license revocation.
(Prior Code, § 6.10)
§ 110.11 LICENSE DENIAL AND FIXING RATES; HEARING.
   (A)   Right to deny. The Council reserves to itself the right to deny any
application for a license to operate any business licensed or regulated under
this chapter where the business involves service to the public, rates charged
for service, use of public streets or other public property by the applicant or
the public, or the public health, safety and convenience. The Council may also
consider the location of the business in making the determination. Provided,
however, that before making the determination, the Council shall hold a public
hearing thereon pursuant to the notice to interested parties and the public as
it may deem necessary or proper in action calling for the hearing.
   (B)   Rates. Where, under specific provisions of this title, the Council has
reserved to itself the right to fix or approve fees, rates or charges of a
licensed or regulated business, the rates shall be uniform for each category or
class of service, and no licensee or proprietor of a regulated business shall
claim or demand payment in excess thereof.
   (C)   Hearing. Any applicant or licensee under this chapter who challenges
denial of a license or rates fixed or approved by the Council shall have a
right to a hearing before the Council upon written request therefor. Written
notice of time, place and purpose of the hearing shall be provided to the
applicant.
(Prior Code, § 6.11)
§ 110.12 WORKERS’ COMPENSATION.
   No license to operate a business shall be issued by the city until the
applicant presents acceptable evidence of compliance with the workers’
compensation insurance coverage requirement of Minnesota Statutes by providing
the name of the insurance company, the policy number and dates of coverage, or
the permit to self-insure.
(Prior Code, § 6.12)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Every person violates a section, division or provision of this title when he
or she performs an act herein prohibited or declared unlawful, or fails to act
when such failure is herein prohibited or declared unlawful, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as otherwise
stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 6.99)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
111.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Nudity on the premises of licensed establishments prohibited
   
111.05   Consumption in public places
   
111.06   General prohibitions
   
111.07   Minors
   
111.08   Gambling prohibited
Licensing
   
111.20   Number of licenses which may be issued
   
111.21   Term and expiration of licenses
   
111.22   Kinds of liquor licenses
   
111.23   License fees; pro rata
   
111.24   Council discretion to grant or deny a license
   
111.25   Application for license
   
111.26   Description of premises
   
111.27   Applications for renewal
   
111.28   Transfer of license
   
111.29   Investigation
   
111.30   Hearing and issuance
   
111.31   Restrictions on issuance
   
111.32   Conditions of license
   
111.33   Hours and days of sale
   
111.34   Minors on premises
   
111.35   Restrictions on purchase and consumption
   
111.36   Suspension and revocation
   
111.37   (Reserved)
   
111.38   Removal of bottle of wine
   
111.39   Consumption and display; 1-day license
   
111.99   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Ch. 340A, as they may be amended from time to time,
with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
restrictions on consumption, provisions relating to sales, hours of sale, and
all other matters pertaining to the retail sale, distribution, and consumption
of intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor are hereby adopted by
reference and are made a part of this Chapter as if set out in full. It is the
intention of the City Council that all future amendments to M.S. Ch. 340A are
hereby adopted by reference or referenced as if they had been in existence at
the time this chapter is adopted.
§ 111.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 340A.509, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on the sale and possession of alcoholic beverages
within its limits beyond those contained in M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended
from time to time.
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 340A.101, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   LIQUOR. As used in this chapter, without modification by the words
"intoxicating" or "3.2 percent malt," includes both intoxicating liquor and 3.2
percent malt liquor.
   RESTAURANT. An eating facility, other than a hotel, under the control of a
single proprietor or manager, where meals are regularly prepared on the
premises, where full waitress/waiter table service is provided, where a
customer orders food from printed menus and where the main food course is
served and consumed while seated at a single location. To be a "restaurant" as
defined by this section, an establishment shall have a license from the state
as required by M.S. § 157.16, as it may be amended from time to time, and meet
the definition of either a "small establishment," "medium establishment" or
"large establishment" as defined in M.S. § 157.16, Subd. 3d, as it may be
amended from time to time. An establishment which serves prepackaged food that
receives heat treatment and is served in the package or frozen pizza that is
heated and served, shall not be considered to be a restaurant for purposes of
this chapter unless it meets the definitions of "small establishment", "medium
establishment" or "large establishment."
§ 111.04 NUDITY ON THE PREMISES OF LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that it is in the best interests of the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the people of the city that nudity is
prohibited as provided in this section on the premises of any establishment
licensed under this chapter. This is to protect and assist the owners,
operators, and employees of the establishment, as well as patrons and the
public in general, from harm stemming from the physical immediacy and
combination of alcohol, nudity, and sex. The Council especially intends to
prevent any subliminal endorsement of sexual harassment or activities likely to
lead to the possibility of various criminal conduct, including prostitution,
sexual assault, and disorderly conduct. The Council also finds that the
prohibition of nudity on the premises of any establishment licensed under this
chapter, as set forth in this section, reflects the prevailing community
standards of the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any licensee to permit or allow any person or
persons on the licensed premises when the person does not have his or her
buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a non-transparent material.
It is unlawful for any person to be on the licensed premises when the person
does not have his or her buttocks, anus, breasts, and genitals covered with a
non-transparent material.
   (C) A violation of this section is a misdemeanor punishable as provided by
law, and is justification for revocation or suspension of any liquor, wine, or
3.2 percent malt liquor license or the imposition of a civil penalty under the
provisions of §
111.99(B).
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.05 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to consume or possess in an unsealed
container any alcoholic beverage, except as provided herein, on any (1) city
park, (2) street, (3) public property, or (4) private parking lot to which the
public has access, except on such premises when and where permission has been
specifically granted or licensed by the Council. Beer and malt liquor in non-
glass containers are allowed in park or recreational areas provided it is not
sold or distributed for any type of remuneration except as permitted by a
special permit from the city. This section shall not apply to the possession of
an unsealed container in a motor vehicle when the container is kept in the
trunk of such vehicle, if it is equipped with a trunk, or kept in some other
area of the vehicle not normally occupied by the driver or passengers, if the
motor vehicle is not equipped with a trunk. For the purpose of this section, a
utility or glove compartment shall be deemed to be within the area occupied by
the driver or passengers.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to introduce upon, or have in his or her
possession upon, or in, any public elementary or secondary school ground, or
any public elementary or secondary school building, any alcoholic beverage,
except for experiments in laboratories and except for those organizations who
have been issued temporary licenses to sell alcoholic beverages, and for any
person to possess alcoholic beverages as a result of a purchase from those
organizations holding temporary licenses.
(Prior Code, §5.18) (Am. Ord. 2007-006, passed 4-16-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   It is unlawful for any:
   (A)   Person to knowingly induce another to make an illegal sale or purchase
of an alcoholic beverage;
   (B)   Licensee to sell or serve an alcoholic beverage to any person who is
obviously intoxicated;
   (C)   Licensee to fail, where doubt could exist, to require adequate proof
of age of a person upon licensed premises;
   (D)   Licensee to sell an alcoholic beverage on any day, or during any hour,
when the sales are not permitted by law;
   (E)   Licensee to allow consumption of an alcoholic beverage on licensed
premises on any day, or during any hour, when the consumption is not permitted
by law; and/or
   (F)   Person to purchase an alcoholic beverage on any day, or during any
hour, when the sales are not permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 5.19) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 MINORS.
   (A)   Consumption. It is unlawful for any:
      (1)   Licensee to permit any minor to consume alcoholic beverages on
licensed premises.
      (2)   Minor to consume alcoholic beverages except in the household of the
minor’s parent or guardian, and then only with the consent of the parent or
guardian.
   (B)   Purchasing. It is unlawful for any:
      (1)   Person to sell, barter, furnish, or give alcoholic beverages to a
minor unless the person is the parent or guardian of the minor, and then only
for consumption in the household of the parent or guardian.
      (2)   Minor to purchase or attempt to purchase any alcoholic beverage.
      (3)   Person to induce a minor to purchase or procure any alcoholic
beverage.
   (C)   Possession. It is unlawful for a minor to possess any alcoholic
beverage with the intent to consume it at a place other than the household of
the minor’s parent or guardian. Possession of an alcoholic beverage by a minor
at a place other than the household of the parent or guardian is prima facie
evidence of intent to consume it at a place other than the household of his or
her parent or guardian.
   (D)   Misrepresentation of age. It is unlawful for a minor to misrepresent
his or her age for the purpose of purchasing an alcoholic beverage.
   (E)   Proof of age. Proof of age for purchasing or consuming alcoholic
beverages may be established only by a valid driver’s license or identification
card issued by Minnesota, another State, or a province of Canada, and including
the photograph and date of birth of the licensed person; or by a valid military
identification card issued by the United States Department of Defense; or, in
the case of a foreign national, from a nation other than Canada, by a valid
passport.
(Prior Code, § 5.15) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08 GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any licensee to keep, possess or operate, or permit the
keeping, possession or operation on licensed premises of dice or any other
gambling device, or permit raffles to be conducted, except such as are
authorized by statute or the city code.
(Prior Code, § 5.16) Penalty, see §
111.99
LICENSING
§ 111.20 NUMBER OF LICENSES WHICH MAY BE ISSUED.
   State law establishes the number of liquor licenses that a city may issue.
The Council in its sound discretion has determined and provided by ordinance
that the maximum number of licenses that may be issued shall be the number of
licenses authorized by M.S. Ch. 340A.413, as it may be amended from time to
time. The Council is not required to issue the full number of licenses that it
has available.
(Ord. 2013-08, passed 10-21-2013)
§ 111.21 TERM AND EXPIRATION OF LICENSES.
   Each license shall be issued for a maximum period of one year. All licenses,
except temporary licenses, shall expire on December 31 of each year unless
another date is provided by ordinance. All licenses shall expire on the same
date. Temporary licenses expire according to their terms. Consumption and
display permits issued by the Commissioner of Public Safety, and the
accompanying city consent to the permit, shall expire on March 31 of each year.
§ 111.22 KINDS OF LIQUOR LICENSES.
   The Council is authorized to issue the following licenses and permits, up to
the number specified in §
111.20.
   (A)   3.2 percent malt liquor on-sale licenses. 3.2 percent malt liquor on-
sale licenses may be issued only to golf courses, restaurants, hotels, clubs,
bowling centers, and establishments used exclusively for the sale of 3.2
percent malt liquor with the incidental sale of tobacco and soft drinks.
   (B)   3.2 percent malt liquor off-sale license.
   (C)   Temporary 3.2 percent malt liquor licenses. Temporary 3.2 percent malt
liquor licenses may be issued only to a club, charitable, religious, or
nonprofit organization.
   (D)   Off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses. Off-sale intoxicating liquor
licenses may be issued only to exclusive liquor stores. The fee for an off-sale
intoxicating liquor license established by the Council under §
111.23 shall not exceed $150 or a greater amount which may be permitted by M.S.
§ 340A.408, Subd. 3, as it may be amended from time to time.
   (E)   On-sale intoxicating liquor licenses. On-sale intoxicating liquor
licenses (1) may be issued to the following establishments as defined by M.S. §
340A.101, as it may be amended from time to time, and this chapter: hotels,
restaurants, bowling centers, theaters, clubs or congressionally chartered
veterans organizations, and exclusive liquor stores. (2) Club licenses may be
issued only with the approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety. The fee for
club licenses established by the Council under §
111.23 shall not exceed the amounts provided for in M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 2b,
as it may be amended from time to time. (3) The Council may in its sound
discretion authorize a retail on-sale licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor
off the licensed premises at a community festival held within the city under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4b, as it may be amended from time to
time. (4) The Council may in its sound discretion authorize a retail on-sale
licensee to dispense intoxicating liquor off the licensed premises at any
convention, banquet, conference, meeting, or social affair conducted on the
premises of a sports, convention, or cultural facility owned by the city, under
the provisions of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 4a, as it may be amended from time to
time; however, the licensee is prohibited from dispensing intoxicating liquor
to any person attending or participating in an amateur athletic event being
held on the premises.
   (F)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses.
      (1)   Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses were authorized by
voter approval. Sunday on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued only
to a restaurant as defined in §
111.03, club, bowling center, or hotel which has a seating capacity of at least
30 persons, which holds an on-sale intoxicating liquor license, and which
serves liquor only in conjunction with the service of food. The maximum fee for
this license, which shall be established by the Council under the provisions of
§
111.23, shall not exceed $200, or the maximum amount provided by M.S. §
340A.504, Subd. 3c, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Establishments that serve alcohol on Sundays must submit a copy of
the state certificate that certifies them as a restaurant establishment at the
time the application is made for the Sunday liquor license.
   (G)   Combination on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses. Combination
on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued as long as the city
has a population less than 10,000.
   (H)   Temporary on-sale intoxicating liquor licenses. Temporary on-sale
intoxicating liquor licenses may be issued with the approval of the
Commissioner of Public Safety and may be issued only in connection with a
social event sponsored by a club, charitable, religious, or other nonprofit
corporation that has existed for at least 3 years. No license shall be for
longer than 4 consecutive days, and the city shall issue no more than 12 days
worth of temporary licenses to any one organization in 1 calendar year.
      (1)   No temporary license shall issue until the city is furnished with
written proof that the licensee has dram shop coverage in the amount provided
for in this chapter, and that the coverage is in force on the premises where
liquor is to be served.
      (2)   Licenses may authorize sales on premises other than those owned or
permanently occupied by the licensee.
      (3)   No more than 1 temporary license may be issued to any 1
organization or registered political committee or for any 1 location within any
30-day period.
   (I)   On-sale wine licenses. On-sale wine licenses may be issued with the
approval of the Commissioner of Public Safety to: theaters, restaurants that
have facilities for seating at least 25 guests at 1 time and meet the criteria
of M.S. § 340A.404, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to time, and which
meet the definition of restaurant in §
111.03; and to licensed bed and breakfast facilities which meet the criteria in
M.S. § 340A.4011, Subd. 1, as it may be amended from time to time. The fee for
an on-sale wine license established by the Council under the provisions of §
111.23 shall not exceed one-half of the license fee charged for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license. The holder of an on-sale wine license who also
holds an on-sale 3.2 percent malt liquor license is authorized to sell malt
liquor with a content over 3.2 percent (strong beer) without an additional
license. An on-sale wine license is not required of an establishment licensed
by the State of Minnesota as a manufacturer of wines of not more than 25
percent alcohol pursuant to M.S. Ch. 340A.
   (J)   One day consumption and display permits. One day consumption and
display permits may be issued with the approval of the Commissioner of Public
Safety to a nonprofit organization in conjunction with a social activity in the
city sponsored by the organization. The maximum amount of the additional fee
which may be imposed by the Council on a person who has been issued a
consumption and display permit under the provisions of §
111.23 shall not exceed $300, or the maximum amount permitted by M.S. §
340A.14, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to time. Consumption and
display permits shall expire on March 31 of each year.
   (K)   Brewer taproom on-sale license. The city may issue to a holder of a
brewer’s license issued under M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 6, clauses (c)[more than
3,500 barrels produced annually], (i)[less than 2,000 barrels produced
annually] or (j)[between 2,000 and 3,500 barrels produced annually], a brewer
taproom license. A brewer taproom license authorizes on-sale of malt liquor
produced by the brewer for consumption on the premises of or adjacent to 1
brewery location owned by the brewer. The holder of a brewer taproom license
may also apply for a license to operate a restaurant at the brewery. (1) All
provisions of this chapter that apply to a retail license also apply to the
brewer taproom license. (2) A brewer may only have 1 taproom license under this
subdivision and may not have an ownership interest in a brewery licensed under
M.S. § 340A.301, Subd. 6(d). (3) This license may not be issued to a brewer or
a person having an economic interest in the brewer who is also a brewer that
brews more than 250,000 barrels of malt liquor annually or a winery that
produces more than 250,000 gallons of wine annually. (4) The city shall require
a licensing fee from the brewer subject to the limitations applicable to
license fees pursuant to M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 2(a). (5) Within 10 days of the
issuance of a brewer taproom license, the city shall inform the Commissioner of
Public Safety of the licensee’s name and address and trade name plus the
effective date and expiration date of the license.
   (L)   Small brewer off-sale license. (1) A brewer licensed under M.S. §
340A.301, Subd. 6, clause (c)[more than 3,500 barrels produced annually], (i)
[less than 2,000 barrels produced annually] or (j)[between 2,000 and 3,500
barrels produced annually], may be issued a license for off-sale of malt liquor
at its licensed premises that has been produced and packaged by the brewer. The
license must be approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety. The amount of
malt liquor sold at off-sale may not exceed 500 barrels annually. Off-sale of
malt liquor shall be limited to the legal hours for off-sale at exclusive
liquor stores in the jurisdiction in which the brewer is located, and the malt
liquor sold off-sale must be removed from the premises before the applicable
off-sale closing time at exclusive liquor stores. (2) The malt liquor shall be
packed in 64-ounce containers commonly known as “growlers” or in 750 milliliter
bottles. The containers or bottles shall bear a twist-type closure, cork,
stopper or plug. At the time of the sale, a paper or plastic adhesive band,
strip or sleeve shall be applied to the container or bottle and extended over
the top of the twist-type closure, cork, stopper or plug forming a seal that
must be broken upon opening of the container or bottle. The adhesive band,
strip or sleeve shall bear the name and address of the brewer. The containers
or bottles shall be identified as malt liquor, contain the name of the malt
liquor, bear the name and address of the brewer selling the malt liquor and
shall be considered intoxicating liquor unless the alcoholic content is labeled
as otherwise in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota Rules, part
7515.1100. (3) The city may not issue a license under this subdivision to a
brewer if the brewer seeking the license, or any person having an economic
interest in the brewer seeking the license or exercising control over the
brewer seeking the license, is a brewer that brews more than 20,000 barrels of
its own brands of malt liquor annually or a winery that produces more than
250,000 gallons of wine annually. (4) The city shall impose a licensing fee on
a brewer holding a license under this subdivision, subject to limitations
applicable to license fees under M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 3a.
   (M)   On-sale microdistillery cocktail room license. On-sale microdistillery
cocktail room licenses may be issued only to the holder of a microdistillery
license issued by the state and in accordance with M.S. § 340A.22.
   (N)   Off-sale microdistillery license. Off-sale microdistillery licenses
may be issued only to a microdistillery in accordance with M.S. § 340A.22. The
license authorizes the microdistillery to sell, at off-sale, subject to the
requirements of M.S. § 340A.22.
(Ord. 2013-08, passed 10-21-2013; Am. Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019; Am. Ord.
2025-04, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 111.23 LICENSE FEES; PRO RATA.
   (A)   No license or other fee established by the city shall exceed any limit
established by M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, for a
liquor license.
   (B)   The Council may establish from time to time in the Ordinance
Establishing Fees and Charges the fee for any of the liquor licenses it is
authorized to issue. The license fee may not exceed the cost of issuing the
license and other costs directly related to the enforcement of the liquor laws
and this chapter. No liquor license fee shall be increased without providing
mailed notice of a hearing on the proposed increase to all affected licensees
at least 30 days before the hearing.
   (C)   The fee for all licenses, except temporary licenses, granted after the
commencement of the license year shall be prorated on a quarterly basis.
   (D)   All license fees shall be paid in full at the time the application is
filed with the city. If the application is denied, the license fee shall be
returned to the applicant.
   (E)   A refund of a pro rata share of an annual license fee may occur only
if authorized by M.S. § 340A.408, Subd. 5, as it may be amended from time to
time.
§ 111.24 COUNCIL DISCRETION TO GRANT OR DENY A LICENSE.
   The Council in its sound discretion may either grant or deny the application
for any license or for the transfer or renewal of any license. No applicant has
a right to a license under this chapter.
§ 111.25 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Form. Every application for a license issued under this chapter shall
be on a form provided by the city. Every application shall state the name of
the applicant, the applicant's age, representations as to the applicant's
character, with references as the Council may require, the type of license
applied for, the business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate and its location, a description of the premises, whether the applicant
is owner and operator of the business, how long the applicant has been in that
business at that place, and other information as the Council may require from
time to time. An application for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license shall
be in the form prescribed by the Commissioner of Public Safety and shall also
contain the information required in this section. The form shall be verified
and filed with the city. No person shall make a false statement in an
application. any false statement in the application, including a willful
omission of information shall result in denial of the application or revocation
of an issued license.
   (B)   Financial responsibility.  Prior to the issuance of any license under
this chapter, the applicant shall demonstrate proof of financial responsibility
as defined in M.S. § 340A.409, as it may be amended from time to time, with
regard to liability under M.S. § 340A.801, as it may be amended from time to
time. This proof will be filed with the city and the Commissioner of Public
Safety. Any liability insurance policy filed as proof of financial
responsibility under this section shall conform to M.S. § 340A.409, as it may
be amended from time to time. Operation of a business which is required to be
licensed by this chapter without having on file with the city at all times
effective proof of financial responsibility is a cause for revocation of the
license.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.26 DESCRIPTION OF PREMISES.
   The application shall specifically describe the compact and contiguous
premises within which liquor may be dispensed and consumed. The description may
not include any parking lot or sidewalk.
§ 111.27 APPLICATIONS FOR RENEWAL.
   At least 45 days before a license issued under this chapter is to be
renewed, an application for renewal shall be filed with the city. The decision
whether or not to renew a license rests within the sound discretion of the
Council. No licensee has a right to have the license renewed.
§ 111.28 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this chapter may be transferred without the approval
of the Council. Any transfer of stock of a corporate licensee is deemed to be a
transfer of the license, and a transfer of stock without prior Council approval
is a ground for revocation of the license. An application to transfer a license
shall be treated the same as an application for a new license, and all of the
provisions of this code applying to applications for a license shall apply.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.29 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Preliminary background and financial investigation. On an initial
application for a license, on an application for transfer of a license and, in
the sound discretion of the Council that it is in the public interest to do so,
on an application for renewal of a license, the Chief of Police shall conduct a
preliminary background and financial investigation of the applicant or it may
contract with the Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The
applicant shall pay with the application an investigation fee as set by Council
which shall be in addition to any license fee. If the cost of the preliminary
investigation is less than the investigation fee paid, the unused balance shall
be returned to the applicant. The results of the preliminary investigation
shall be sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety as necessary if the
application is for an on-sale intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine
license.
   (B)   Comprehensive background and financial investigation.  If the results
of a preliminary investigation warrant, in the sound discretion of the Council,
a comprehensive background and financial investigation, the Council may direct
the Chief of Police to conduct the investigation or contract with the
Commissioner of Public Safety for the investigation. The investigation fee for
this comprehensive background and financial investigation to be paid by the
applicant shall be as set by Council, less any amount paid for the initial
investigation if the investigation is to be conducted within the state, and
$10,000, less any amount paid for the initial investigation, if the
investigation is required outside the state. The unused balance of the fee
shall be returned to the applicant whether or not the application is denied.
The fee shall be paid in advance of any investigation and the amount actually
expended on the investigation shall not be refundable in the event the
application is denied. The results of the comprehensive investigation shall be
sent to the Commissioner of Public Safety if the application is for an on-sale
intoxicating liquor license or an on-sale wine license.
§ 111.30 HEARING AND ISSUANCE.
   The Council or designee shall investigate all facts set out in the
application and not investigated in the preliminary or comprehensive background
and financial investigations. Opportunity shall be given to any person to be
heard for or against the granting of the license. After the investigation and
hearing, the Council shall in its sound discretion grant or deny the
application. No license shall become effective until the proof of financial
security has been approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
§ 111.31 RESTRICTIONS ON ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Each license shall be issued only to the applicant for the premises
described in the application.
   (B)   Not more than 1 license shall be directly or indirectly issued within
the city to any 1 person.
   (C)   No license shall be granted or renewed for operation on any premises
on which taxes, assessments, utility charges, service charges, or other
financial claims of the city are delinquent and unpaid.
   (D)   No license shall be issued for any place or any business ineligible
for a license under state law.
   (E)   No license shall be issued to any person who is not a resident of the
state. If the applicant is a corporation, all of the shareholders shall be
residents of the state. The provisions of this division (E) shall not apply to
any license existing on the effective date of this chapter or to the renewal of
an existing license.
   (F)   No license shall be granted within 500 feet of any school or church.
The distance is to be measured from the closest side of the church to the
closest side of the structure on the premises within which liquor is to be
sold.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.32 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   The failure of a licensee to meet any one of the conditions of the license
specified below shall result in a suspension of the license until the condition
is met.
   (A)   (1)   Every person selling or serving liquor in an establishment which
has an "on-sale" or "off-sale" license shall receive State of Minnesota
approved training regarding the selling or serving of liquor to customers. The
initial training shall be provided by the Minnesota State Alcohol and Gambling
Division. Each employee or owner who wishes to sell or serve alcoholic
beverages in the city must obtain a certificate of completion of the course and
submit a copy to the City Clerk's Office.
      (2)   Before being allowed to sell or serve an alcoholic beverage at a
local liquor establishment, each subsequent new employee shall attend the state
approved course which shall be given by a member of the Police Department who
has been trained by the Minnesota State Alcohol and Gambling Division to
present the training. Upon completion of the course, a copy of the certificate
of course completion shall be submitted to the City Clerk's Office.
   (B)   Every licensee is responsible for the conduct of the place of business
and the conditions of sobriety and order in it. The act of any employee on the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
shall be liable to all penalties provided by this chapter and the law equally
with the employee.
   (C)   Every licensee shall allow any peace officer, health officer, city
employee, or any other person designated by the Council to conduct compliance
checks and to otherwise enter, inspect, and search the premises of the licensee
during business hours and after business hours during the time when customers
remain on the premises without a warrant.
   (D)   No on-sale establishment shall display liquor to the public during
hours when the sale of liquor is prohibited.
   (E)   Compliance with financial responsibility requirements of state law and
of this chapter is a continuing condition of any license.
(Am. Ord. 2007-015, passed 12-17-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.33 HOURS AND DAYS OF SALE.
   (A)   The hours of operation and days of sale shall be those set by M.S. §
340A.504, as it may be amended from time to time, except that the City Council
may, by resolution or ordinance, provide for more restrictive hours than state
law allows.
   (B)   No person shall consume nor shall any on-sale licensee permit any
consumption of intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor in an on-sale
licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale can legally
occur.
   (C)   No on-sale licensee shall permit any glass, bottle, or other container
containing intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor to remain upon any
table, bar, stool, or other place where customers are served, more than 30
minutes after the time when a sale can legally occur.
   (D)   No person, other than the licensee and any employee, shall remain on
the on-sale licensed premises more than 30 minutes after the time when a sale
can legally occur.
   (E)   The electorate of the city having heretofore authorized the same at a
general or special election, a Sunday on-sale liquor license may be issued to
hotels, restaurants, clubs or bowling centers, in conjunction with the sale of
food, which have on-sale liquor licenses and which also have seating capacity
for not less than 30 guests at one time. Prior to issuance of the license, the
applicant shall provide the city with proof of financial responsibility for
Sunday sales. The hours of Sunday on-sale liquor sales shall be from 12:00 p.m.
to 1:00 a.m. Monday morning when New Year’s Eve falls on a Sunday; provided
that the licensee is in conformance with the Minnesota Clean Air Act.
   (F)   Sales after 1:00 a.m.; permit fee.
      (1)   No licensee may sell intoxicating liquor or 3.2 percent malt liquor
on-sale between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 2:00 a.m., except on Saturdays and
Sundays unless the licensee has obtained a permit from the commissioner and the
City Council. Intoxicating liquor and 3.2 percent malt liquor on-sale shall be
allowed on Saturdays, Sundays, and on New Year's Eve until 2:00 a.m. provided
the establishment has obtained a 2:00 a.m. license from the State of Minnesota
and provided a current copy of same to the city. The city reserves the right to
modify the allowed times of sales at any time.
      (2)   The city may issue permits for sales between 1:00 a.m. and 2:00
a.m. for special events only held on Monday through Friday. A licensee must
complete an application for a special event sales permit provided by the city.
The City Council will consider each application individually at a public
hearing. A special event sales permit shall only be valid for the specific
dates for which the permit is issued. Each event requires a special event and
hearing.
(Ord. 74, Second Series, passed 5-3-2004)
   (G)   Any violation of any condition of this section may be grounds for
revocation or suspension of the license.
(Am. Ord. 2007-014, passed 9-17-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.34 MINORS ON PREMISES.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be employed in any rooms
constituting the place in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent malt liquor
are sold at retail on sale, except that persons under the age of 18 may be
employed as musicians or to perform the duties of a bus person or dishwashing
services in places defined as a restaurant, hotel, motel or other multi-purpose
building serving food in rooms in which intoxicating liquors or 3.2 percent
malt liquor are sold at retail on sale.
   (B)   A person 18 years of age or older may enter a licensed establishment
to work, consume meals on premises that qualify as a restaurant, or attend
social functions that are held in a portion of the premises where liquor is not
sold.
   (C)    It is unlawful for a licensee to permit a person under the age of 18
years to enter licensed premises unless attending a social event at which
alcoholic beverages are not served, or in the company of a parent or guardian,
or to consume meals or pick up a take out order.
(Am. Ord. 2007-006, passed 4-16-2007) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.35 RESTRICTIONS ON PURCHASE AND CONSUMPTION.
   No person shall mix or prepare liquor for consumption in any public place of
business unless it has a license to sell on-sale, or a permit from the
Commissioner of Public Safety under the provisions of M.S. § 340A.414, as it
may be amended from time to time, which has been approved by the Council, and
no person shall consume liquor in any such place.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.36 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Council shall either suspend for a period not to exceed 60 days or
revoke any liquor license upon finding that the licensee has failed to comply
with any applicable statute, regulation, or provision of this chapter relating
to liquor.
      (1)   Revocation or suspension. The Council shall revoke or suspend, for
a period not to exceed 60 days, a license granted under the provisions of this
chapter, or impose a civil fine not to exceed $2,000, for each violation on a
finding that the licensee has failed to comply with a statute, regulation or
provision of the city code relating to alcoholic beverages. The Council shall
revoke the license upon conviction of any licensee or agent or employee of a
licensee for violating any law relating to the sale or possession of 3.2% malt
liquor, wine or liquor upon premises of the licensee, or if the revocation is
mandatory by statute. If it shall be made to appear at the hearing thereon that
the violation was not willful, the Council may order suspension; provided that
revocation shall be ordered upon the third violation or offense. No suspension
or revocation shall take effect until the licensee has been afforded an
opportunity for a hearing before the Council, a committee of the Council, or a
hearing under the Administrative Procedures Act, as may be determined by the
Council in action calling the hearing. The hearing shall be called by the
Council upon written notice to the licensee served in person or by certified
mail not less than 15 nor more than 30 days prior to the hearing date, stating
the time, place and purpose thereof. As additional restrictions or regulations
on licensees under this chapter, and in addition to grounds for revocation or
suspension stated in the city code or statute, the following shall also be
grounds for the action:
         (a)   That the licensee suffered or permitted illegal acts upon
licensed premises unrelated to the sale of 3.2% malt liquor, wine or liquor;
         (b)   That the licensee had knowledge of illegal acts upon licensed
premises, but failed to report the same to police;
         (c)   That the licensee failed or refused to cooperate fully with
police in investigating the alleged illegal acts upon licensed premises; or
         (d)   That the activities of the licensee created a serious danger to
public health, safety or welfare.
      (2)   Hearing. Except in cases of lapse of proof of financial
responsibility, no suspension or revocation shall take effect until the
licensee has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to the
Administrative Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended
from time to time. The Council may act as the hearing body under that act, or
it may contract with the Office of Hearing Examiners for a hearing officer.
   (B)   The following are the minimum periods of suspension or revocation
which shall be imposed by the Council for violations of the provisions of this
chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time or any rules
promulgated under that chapter as they may be amended from time to time:
      (1)   For commission of a felony related to the licensed activity, sale
of alcoholic beverages while the license is under suspension, sale of
intoxicating liquor where the only license is for 3.2 percent malt liquor, or
violation of §
111.04, the license shall be revoked.
      (2)   The license shall be suspended by the Council after a finding under
division (A) that the licensee has failed to comply with any applicable
statute, rule, or provision of this chapter for at least the minimum periods as
follows:
         (a)   For the first violation within any 3-year period, at least 1 day
suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties which may be imposed.
         (b)   For a second violation within any 3-year period, at least 3
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (c)   For the third violation within any 3-year period, at least 7
consecutive days suspension in addition to any criminal or civil penalties
which may be imposed.
         (d)   For a fourth violation within any 3-year period, the license
shall be revoked.
      (3)   The Council shall select the day or days during which the license
will be suspended.
   (C)   Lapse of required proof of financial responsibility shall effect an
immediate suspension of any license issued pursuant to this chapter or state
law without further action of the Council. Notice of cancellation or lapse of a
current liquor liability policy shall also constitute notice to the licensee of
the impending suspension of the license. The holder of a license who has
received notice of lapse of required insurance or of suspension or revocation
of a license may request a hearing thereon and, if a request is made in writing
to the Clerk, a hearing before the Council shall be granted within 10 days. Any
suspension under this division (B) shall continue until the Council determines
that the financial responsibility requirements of state law and this chapter
have again been met.   
   (D)   The provisions of §
111.99 pertaining to administrative penalty may be imposed in addition to or in
lieu of any suspension or revocation under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.37 (RESERVED)
§ 111.38 REMOVAL OF BOTTLE OF WINE.
   (A)    An establishment licensed by the State of Minnesota as a manufacturer
of wines of not more than 25 percent alcohol pursuant to M.S. Ch. 340A may sell
on-sale and off-sale wine on the manufacturer's licensed premises without
further license. The licensed wine manufacturer shall comply with the
restrictions and regulations set forth at City Code §§
111.32 through
111.36, and shall be subject to
Chapter 111.
   (B)   All other establishments licensed to sell liquor or wine at on-sale
under this chapter may permit a person purchasing a full bottle of wine in
conjunction with the purchase of a meal to remove the bottle on leaving the
licensed premises provided that the bottle has been opened and the contents
partially consumed. A removal of a bottle under the conditions described in
this provision is not an off-sale of liquor and may be permitted without
additional license.
(Prior Code, § 5.72) (Am. Ord. 2019-03, passed 4-15-2019)
§ 111.39 CONSUMPTION AND DISPLAY; 1-DAY LICENSE.
   (A)   (1)   License required. Any non-profit organization desiring to serve
liquids for the purpose of mixing with liquor and permitting the consumption
and display of liquor in conjunction with a social activity sponsored by it,
shall first obtain a license therefor from the city. It is unlawful for any
such organization to fail to obtain the license.
      (2)   Term. The term of the license shall be 1 day only.
      (3)   Limitation on number. The city shall issue no more than 10 licenses
in any calendar year.
      (4)   License fee. The fee for the 1-day license is $25.
      (5)   Approval. In addition to Council approval, the license must be
approved by the Commissioner of Public Safety.
(Prior Code, § 5.82)
   (B)   (1)   Definition. For purposes of this section, the term BOTTLE CLUB
is a club, as defined in this chapter, or an unincorporated society which,
except for its lack of incorporation, otherwise meets the requirements of a
club, and which is not otherwise licensed for the sale of liquor.
      (2)   Unlawful act. Except upon premises duly licensed under the
provisions of this chapter for on-sale or off-sale of liquor, it is unlawful
for any bottle club or for any business establishment to allow the consumption
or display of liquor or the serving of any liquid for the purpose of mixing
liquor therewith.
(Prior Code, § 5.83)
Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter or M.S. Ch. 340A
as it may be amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that
chapter as they may be amended from time to time is guilty of a misdemeanor and
upon conviction shall be punished as provided by law.
   (B)   The Council shall impose a civil penalty of up to $2,000 for each
violation of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be amended from time to time, and of this
chapter. Conviction of a violation in a court of law is not required in order
for the Council to impose the civil penalty. A hearing under the Administrative
Procedures Act, M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70, as it may be amended from time to time,
is not required before the penalty is imposed, but the Council shall hold a
hearing on the proposed violation and the proposed penalty and hear any person
who wishes to speak. Non-payment of the penalty is grounds for suspension or
revocation of the license. The following is the minimum schedule of presumptive
civil penalties that apply to the owner of the establishment, to the person who
sold the alcohol illegally, or both. These penalties may be imposed in addition
to any suspension unless the licenses is revoked:
      (1)   For the first violation within any 3-year period, $250.
      (2)   For the second violation within any 3-year period, $1,000.
      (3)   For the third and subsequent violations within any 3-year period,
$2,000.
   (C)   The term "violation" as used in this section includes any and all
violations of the provisions of this chapter, or of M.S. Ch. 340A, as it may be
amended from time to time or any rules promulgated under that chapter as they
may be amended from time to time. The number of violations shall be determined
on the basis of the history of violations for the preceding 3-year period.
Revocation shall occur within 60 days following a violation for which
revocation is imposed.
(Am. Ord. 2007-017, passed 1-7-2008)
CHAPTER 112: AMUSEMENTS AND FUNCTIONS
Section
Dances
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   License fee
Shows and Large Assemblies
   
112.20   Permit required
   
112.21   Regulations
   
112.22   Overnight camping
   
112.23   Permitted area
DANCES
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance wherein the public may participate by payment,
directly or indirectly, of an admission fee or price for dancing, which fee may
be in the form of a club membership, or payment of money, directly or
indirectly.
   PUBLIC DANCING PLACE. Any room, place, or space open to public patronage in
which dancing, wherein the public may participate, is carried on and to which
admission may be had by the public by payment, directly or indirectly, of an
admission fee or price for dancing.
(Prior Code, § 6.30)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a street dance without a license
therefor from the city, which license shall be conditioned upon hiring police
officers to attend the street dance.
(Prior Code, § 6.30) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 112.03 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee shall include the cost of providing attendance of a police
officer or officers.
(Prior Code, § 6.30)
SHOWS AND LARGE ASSEMBLIES
§ 112.20 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to present any large assembly such as a
public show, movie, caravan, circus, carnival, festival, theatrical or other
performance or exhibition without first having obtained a special event permit
therefor from the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, LARGE ASSEMBLY means a gathering, or
projected gathering, of more than 100 persons at 1 time and at a single
location.
(Prior Code, § 6.31) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 112.21 REGULATIONS.
   Unless waived or modified by the Council upon good cause being shown, all
applicants for a permit where a large assembly is to be held shall show ability
to provide, and during the term of the permit (if issued) shall be conditioned
upon providing the following at the applicant’s expense:
   (A)   If fully or partially out-of-doors, a fence of sufficient height and
strength to prevent people in excess of the maximum permissible number from
gaining access to the grounds, shall completely enclose the location, but shall
have a sufficient number of gates to allow safe passage to and from the
gathering.
   (B)   Enclosed toilets for men and women, meeting all state and local
specifications, conveniently located throughout the grounds, sufficient to
provide facilities for the maximum number of people to be assembled in
accordance with the Minnesota State Board of Health Regulations and Standards,
which toilets shall be kept clean, operable and free of refuse.
   (C)   A sanitary method of adequately disposing of the anticipated amount of
solid waste in compliance with state and local laws and regulations, including
sufficient trash containers and personnel necessary for efficient disposal, and
a plan to return the area to its original condition.
   (D)   Illumination sufficient to light the entire area of the assembly if
the assembly is scheduled to continue during the hours of darkness.
   (E)   Traffic controls meeting the requirements of local authorities and the
Minnesota Department of Public Safety and regularly employed security officers
or contracted Police officers ro police reserve officers licensed by the State
of Minnesota if applicable, sufficient to provide adequate security for the
maximum number of people to be assembled.
   (F)   An administrative control center with telephones where local
authorities can contact the Minnesota applicant and law enforcement personnel
inside the area of the assembly.
   (G)   A policy or certificate of insurance, on which the city, its agents
and employees are additional insureds, providing public liability insurance in
the amount of at least $300,000 for the injury of 1 person, $500,000 for the
injury of 2 or more persons in the same accident, and $50,000 for property
damages.
   (H)   All reasonably necessary precautions to insure that the sound of the
assembly will not carry unreasonably beyond the enclosed boundaries of the
location of the assembly.
   (I)   Written permission from the owner of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 6.31)
§ 112.22 OVERNIGHT CAMPING.
   (A)   Unless approved in the special event permit application, it is
unlawful for any permit holder to allow, or for any participant, spectator, or
customer, to camp or sleep overnight at the location of a large assembly.
   (B)   It is also unlawful for any permit holder to allow, or any
participant, spectator or customer, to prepare food on the premises, unless the
person is a licensed concessionaire.
   (C)   This section does not apply to security officers performing their
duties.
(Prior Code, § 6.31) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 112.23 PERMITTED AREA.
   Large assemblies shall be permitted only after a finding by the Council that
the character of the proposed assembly is compatible with the character of the
surrounding neighborhood considering the problems of noise, lighting, traffic,
sanitation, congestion, and other factors affecting the public health, safety
and welfare of the entire area, and compliance with the city code.
(Prior Code, § 6.31)
CHAPTER 113: TOBACCO AND ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE REGULATIONS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   License required
   
113.04   License fee
   
113.05   Prohibited sales
   
113.06   Mobile sales
   
113.07   Compliance checks
   
113.08   Prohibited actions
   
113.09   Clean indoor air act
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city recognizes that many persons under the age of 21 years
purchase or otherwise obtain, possess and use tobacco, tobacco products,
tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia
delivery products and such sales, possession and use are violations of either
state or federal laws or both.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to protect the health, safety and
general welfare of the people of the city pursuant to powers granted under M.S.
§ 144.414(b) and M.S. § 461.19 and subsequent recodifications and/or
amendments, as amended and other applicable legislation, as may be adopted from
time to time. Further, the purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Regulate the sale of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related
devices, electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery products
for the purpose of enforcing and furthering existing laws;
      (2)   Prevent and protect underage individuals against the health harms
from the use of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco related devices,
electronic delivery devices, and nicotine or lobelia delivery products;
      (3)   Further the official public policy of the State of Minnesota, as
stated in M.S. § 144.391, in regard to preventing underage individuals from
starting to smoke;
      (4)   Prevent second hand tobacco exposure and its adverse health effects
on employees, patrons and the general public while in public indoor areas and
places of employment;
      (5)   Protect, in particular, the health of vulnerable populations
including children and those with chronic health conditions;
      (6)   Maintain consistency in enforcement of clean air in public indoor
areas, and in the use of products that simulate combustible tobacco products.
(Prior Code, § 6.32) (Am. Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 2-12-1998; Am. Ord.
2015-09, passed 7-6-2015; Am. Ord. 2020-05, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person as defined herein, who completes or signs an application
for a license to sell tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-related devices
individually or on behalf of a business.
   BUSINESS. The business of selling tobacco, tobacco products or tobacco-
related devices.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as electronic cigarettes, electronic cigars,
electronic pipe, vape pens, modes, tank systems, or under any other name or
descriptor. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes any component part of a
product, whether or not marketed or sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE
excludes drugs, devices, or combination products, as those terms are defined in
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, that are authorized for sale by the
United States Food and Drug Administration.
   INDOOR AREA. Shall have the same meaning as set forth in M.S. § 144.413,
subd.1a, as may be amended from time to time.
   LICENSE HOLDER. The owner of the business licensed to sell tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco-related devices.
   LICENSED PRODUCT. The term that collectively refers to any tobacco, tobacco
product, tobacco-related devices, electronic delivery device, and nicotine or
lobelia delivery product.
   LOOSIES. Common term used to refer to a single or individually wrapped
cigarette, cigar and any other licensed product that have been removed from
their original retail packaging and offered for sale. LOOSIES do not include
premium cigars that are hand-constructed, have a wrapper made entirely from
whole tobacco leaf, and have a filler and binder made entirely of tobacco,
except for adhesives or other materials used to maintain size, texture, or
flavor.
   MOVABLE PLACE OF BUSINESS. A business whose physical location is not
permanent or is capable of being moved or changed.
   NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT. Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of such a
product, that is not tobacco or an electronic delivery device as defined
herein. It does not include any nicotine cessation product that has been
authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to be marketed and for sale
as “drugs,” “devices,” or “combination products,” as defined in the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   PERSON. One or more natural persons; a partnership, limited liability
company; corporation, including a foreign, domestic or nonprofit corporation; a
trust; a political subdivision of the state; or any other business
organization.
   PUBLIC MEETING. Shall have the same meaning as set forth in M.S. § 13D.01,
as may be amended from time to time.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Shall have the same meaning as set forth in M.S. § 144.413,
subd. 2, as may be amended from time to time.
   PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION. Shall have the same meaning as set forth in M.S. §
144.413, subd. 5, as may be amended from time to time.
   SELF-SERVICE MERCHANDISING. A method of displaying tobacco, tobacco products
or tobacco-related devices so that they are accessible to the public without
the intervention of an applicant, license holder or their agents or employees.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any substance, item, or product containing, made
or derived from tobacco that is intended for human consumption whether chewed,
smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed or ingested by any other
means or any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product, including but
not limited to: cigarettes, cigars, cheroots, stogies, perique, granulated,
plug cut, crimp cut, ready, rubbed and other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff
flower, cavendish, plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and other chewing tobaccos;
shorts, refuse scripts, clippings, cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; and
other kinds and forms of tobacco, prepared in such manner as to be suitable for
chewing, sniffing, or smoking in a pipe, rolling paper or other tobacco-related
devices. TOBACCO and TOBACCO PRODUCT excludes drugs, devices, or combination
products, as those terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act, that are authorized for sale by the United States Food and Drug
Administration.
   TOBACCO RELATED DEVICES. Cigarette papers or pipes for smoking or other
devices intentionally designed or intended to be used in a manner which enables
the chewing, sniffing, smoking, or inhalation of aerosol or vapor of tobacco or
tobacco products. The term TOBACCO- RELATED DEVICE(S) includes electronic
delivery devices and components of tobacco-related devices, which may be
marketed and sold separately.
   VENDING MACHINE. Any mechanical, electric or electronic, self-service device
which, upon insertion of money, tokens or any other form of payment, dispenses
licensed products and including vending machines equipped with manual, electric
or electronic locking devices.
(Prior Code, § 6.32) (Am. Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 2-12-1998; Am. Ord.
2015-09, passed 7-6-2015; Am. Ord. 2020-05, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 113.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall, directly or indirectly, keep for retail sale, sell or offer
to sell at retail or otherwise dispense any licensed product at any place in
the city without first obtaining a license from the city and paying a license
fee.
   (A)   Application. An application for a license to sell licensed products
shall be made on a form provided by the city. The application shall include,
but is not limited to requiring the full legal name of the applicant, the
applicant’s residential and business address and telephone numbers, the name of
the proposed license holder, the business location for which the license is
sought, and a copy of the materials the applicant intends to use to educate
employees about unlawful sales in violation of the City Code. The completed
application along with the license fee shall be submitted to the City
Administrator or his or her designee for approval. If the City Administrator
determines that an application is incomplete, he or she shall return the
application to the applicant with notice of the deficiencies.
   (B)   Action. The City Administrator may either approve or deny the license,
or may delay action for such reasonable period of time to permit the city to
complete any investigation of the application or the applicant as deemed
necessary. If the Administrator approves the license, a license shall be issued
to the applicant. If the City Administrator denies the application for any
reason, including the reasons set forth in § 113.03(I) herein, a notice of
denial shall be sent to the applicant at the business address provided on the
application along with the reasons for the denial. The notice shall also inform
the applicant of the right to appeal the City Administrator’s decision to the
Council. If a license is mistakenly issued or renewed to an applicant or
license holder, it shall be revoked by the City Administrator upon the
discovery that the person, applicant or license holder was ineligible for the
license under this section.
   (C)   Term. All licenses are issued for a period of 1 year. The license
period is from January 1 to December 31. The initial license term will expire
at the end of the calendar year during which the license was issued.
   (D)   Revocation or suspension. Any license issued under this section may be
revoked or suspended as provided in §
113.99, pursuant to the process set forth.
   (E)   Transfers. All licenses issued under this section shall be valid only
on the business premises for which the license was issued and only for the
person to whom the license was issued. No transfer of any license to another
location or person shall be valid without the prior approval of the City
Administrator.
   (F)   Display. Every license shall be conspicuously posted at the place of
business for which the license is issued and shall be exhibited to any person
upon request. At each location where licensed products are sold, the licensee
shall display a sign in plain view to provide public notice that selling any of
these products to any person under the age of 21 is illegal and subject to
penalties. The notice shall be placed in a conspicuous location in the licensed
establishment and shall be readily visible to any person who is purchasing or
attempting to purchase licensed products. The sign shall provide notice that
all persons responsible for selling licensed products must verify, by means of
photographic identification containing the bearer’s date of birth, the age of
any person under 30 years of age.
   (G)   Renewals. The renewal of a license under this section shall be handled
in the same manner as the original application. The request for renewal shall
be made at least 30 days but no more than 60 days before the expiration of the
current license. The issuance of a license under this chapter shall be
considered a privilege and not an absolute right of the applicant and shall not
entitle the holder to an automatic renewal of the license.
   (H)   Instructional program. No person shall be issued a license or renewal
license to sell tobacco-related products unless an applicant or license holder
has an approved program for instructing all employees at the business premises
for which the license was issued, in the legal requirements pertaining to the
sale of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco-related devices, including, but
not limited to, reviewing the law on the sale of tobacco, tobacco products and
tobacco-related devices, providing information on the health risks of using
tobacco or tobacco products, and requiring employees to request identification
from every customer who appears to be under 30 years of age. No license shall
be issued unless the applicant or license holder has received training and
instruction on the sale of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco-related
devices and the date the training occurred. The training shall include
information that the sale of tobacco, tobacco products and tobacco-related
devices to minors is illegal, explains what proof of age is legally acceptable,
and that a sale to a minor can subject the applicant or license holder and
their employees to criminal and/or civil liability.
   (I)   Denials. The following shall be grounds for denying the issuance or
renewal of a license under this section. The following list is not exhaustive
or exclusive:
      (1)   The applicant is under the age of 21 years;
      (2)   That applicant has been convicted within the past 5 years of a
violation of any provisions of this chapter or a violation of a federal, state
or local law, ordinance provision or other regulation relating to tobacco or
tobacco products or tobacco-related devices;
      (3)   The applicant or license holder has had a license to sell tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco-related devices revoked within the preceding 12
months of the date of application;
      (4)   The applicant fails to provide any information required on the city
license application, or provides false or misleading information; and
      (5)   The applicant or license holder has outstanding fines, penalties or
property taxes owed to the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.32) (Am. Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 2-12-1998; Am. Ord.
2015-09, passed 7-6-2015; Am. Ord. 2020-05, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 113.04 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee shall be determined by the City Council and shall be paid at
the time of application. License fees are not pro-rated.
(Prior Code, § 6.32) (Am. Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 2-12-1998)
§ 113.05 PROHIBITED SALES.
   (A)   No person shall sell, offer to sell, give away, furnish or otherwise
deliver any licensed product:
      (1)   To any person under the age of 21 years (this does not apply to a
parent or legal guardian of a person under the age of 21 who obtained or
provided to the person under the age of 21 such licensed product if the
licensed product has been approved or otherwise certified for legal sale by the
United States Food and Drug Administration for cessation, harm reduction or for
other medical purposes, and is being marketed and sold solely for the approved
purpose);
      (2)   By means of any type of vending machine;
      (3)   By means of loosies;
      (4)   By means of self-service merchandising or any means whereby the
customer may have access to such items without having to request the item from
the license holder, their agents or employees. All licensed products shall be
stored behind a counter or other area not freely accessible to customers;
      (5)   By means of delivery sales. All sales of licensed products must be
conducted in person, in a licensed retail establishment, in over-the-counter
sales transactions; and
      (6)   By any other means, or to any other person, prohibited by federal,
state or other local law, ordinance provisions, or other regulation.
   (B)   Exception. A license holder who operates an establishment that sells
only licensed products is exempt from the self-service merchandising provision
if the license holder prohibits anyone under 21 years of age from entering the
establishment, unless accompanied by a parent, and the license holder
conspicuously displays a notice prohibiting persons under 21 years of age from
entering the establishment, unless accompanied by a parent.
   (C)   At each location where licensed products are sold, the licensee shall
verify, by means of government-issued photographic identification containing
the bearer’s date of birth, that the purchaser or person attempting to make the
purchase is at least 21 years of age. Verification is not required if the
purchaser or person attempting to make the purchase is 30 years of age or
older. It shall not constitute a defense to a violation of this chapter that
the person appeared to be 30 years of age or older.
(Prior Code, § 6.32) (Am. Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 2-12-1998; Am. Ord.
2020-05, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 113.06 MOBILE SALES.
   No license shall be issued for the sale of a licensed product at a movable
place of business, including but not limited to motorized vehicles, mobile
sales kiosks or trailers.
(Prior Code, § 6.32) (Am. Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 2-12-1998; Am. Ord.
2020-05, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 113.07 COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   (A)   All premises where licensed products are sold shall be open to
inspection by the city police or other authorized city official during regular
business hours. From time to time, but at least once per calendar year, the
city shall conduct compliance checks by engaging a person at least 17 years of
age, but under the age of 21, who, with prior written consent of a parent or
guardian if the person is under the age of 18, to enter the premise to attempt
to purchase one or more licensed products.Persons used for the purpose of
compliance checks shall be supervised by city designated law enforcement
officers or other designated city personnel. Persons used for compliance checks
shall not be guilty of an unlawful attempt to purchase a licensed product or
use a false identification misrepresenting the person’s age, and all persons
lawfully engaged in a compliance check shall answer all questions about the
person’s age asked by the licensee, business owner or his or her employee and
shall produce an identification if any exists, for which he or she is asked.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit compliance checks authorized by
state or federal laws for educational, research or training purposes, or
required for the enforcement of a particular state or federal law.
   (C)   Results of compliance checks will be provided in writing to each
license holder.
(Prior Code, § 6.32) (Am. Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 2-12-1998; Am. Ord.
2020-05, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 113.08 PROHIBITED ACTIONS.
   (A)   In addition to violations specified elsewhere in this chapter, the
following acts are prohibited and shall be a violation of this chapter.
      (1)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person under the
age of 21 to purchase or attempt to purchase or otherwise obtain any licensed
product. This subdivision shall not apply to persons lawfully involved in a
compliance check.
      (2)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to purchase
or otherwise obtain licensed products on behalf of a person under the age of
21.
      (3)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to coerce or
attempt to coerce a person to illegally purchase or otherwise obtain or use any
licensed product. This subdivision shall not apply to persons lawfully involved
in a compliance check.
      (4)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to disguise
his or her true age by the use of a false form of identification, whether the
identification is that of another person or one on which the age of the person
has been modified or tampered with to represent an age older than the actual
age of the person presenting the identification.
      (5)   It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person to sell or
offer to sell any liquid, whether or not such liquid contains nicotine, which
is intended for human consumption and use in an electronic delivery device,
that is not contained in “child-resistant packaging” as the term is defined and
is required in M.S. § 461.20.
   (B)   The use of electronic cigarettes including the inhaling or exhaling of
vapor from any electronic delivery device and any other use of electronic
delivery devices are prohibited in:
      (1)   All public meetings and public places except a retail establishment
with an entrance door opening directly to the outside that derives more than
90% of its gross revenue from the sale of loose tobacco, plants, or herbs and
cigars, cigarettes, e-cigarettes, pipes, and related smoking or vaping devices
and accessories and in which the sale of other products is merely incidental.
      (2)   All health care facilities and clinics, except as provided in M.S.
§ 246.0141, relating to smoking by patients in locked psychiatric units.
      (3)   All public transportation vehicles. Nothing in this section shall
prevent the proprietor or other person in charge of any place including,
without limitation, any residence, motor vehicle or outdoor space, from
prohibiting use of electronic cigarettes or electronic delivery devices in any
such place.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 7-6-2015; Am. Ord. 2020-05, passed 9-21-2020)
§ 113.09 CLEAN INDOOR AIR ACT.
   Sections
113.08 and
113.09 are intended to complement and go beyond the Minnesota Clean Indoor Air
Act, M.S. §§ 144.411 to 144.417, and other applicable laws, as amended from
time to time. Nothing in this chapter authorizes smoking in any location where
smoking is prohibited or restricted by other laws.
(Ord. 2015-09, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   In addition to the administrative penalties applicable under this
chapter, any person 21 years of age or older who sells, gives, or otherwise
furnishes a licensed product to a person under the age of 21 is guilty of a
petty misdemeanor for the first violation and is guilty of a misdemeanor for
each violation occurring within 5 years of the previous conviction.
   Upon discovery of a suspected violation of this chapter the police may issue
a citation to the suspected violator.
   (B)   The license holder shall be responsible for the conduct of its agents
or employees while on the licensed premises. Any violation of this chapter
shall be considered an act of the license holder for purposes of imposing an
administrative penalty, license suspension or revocation. Each violation, and
everyday in which a violation occurs or continues, shall constitute a separate
offense.
      (1)   Notice of violation. Upon the occurrence of a suspected violation,
the Police Department shall inform the City Administrator of the suspected
violation. The City Administrator shall then send to the license holder or
violator a written notice of the civil violation. The notice shall advise the
license holder of the penalty and the license holder’s right to request a
hearing regarding the violation of this chapter pursuant to the section on the
hearing on denial or violation.
      (2)   Administrative penalties. 
         (a)   Each license issued hereunder shall be subject to administrative
penalty, and/or license suspension or revocation for violation of any
provisions of this chapter or the laws of the State of Minnesota as follows:
            1.   The first violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a
civil penalty of $300.
            2.   A second violation of this chapter at the same location within
36 months shall be punishable by a civil penalty of $600.
            3.   A third or subsequent violation of this chapter at the same
location within 36 months after the initial violation shall be punishable by an
administrative penalty of $1,000 and suspension of the license for not less
than 7 days and may be revoked.
            4.   No suspension, revocation, or other penalty may take effect
until the licensee has received notice, served personally or by mail, of the
alleged violation and an opportunity for hearing pursuant to §
113.99(C)(1) herein.
         (b)   Any individual who sells, gives, or otherwise furnishes tobacco,
tobacco products or tobacco-related devices to any person under the age of 21
years may be charged an administrative penalty of $50. No penalty may be
imposed until the individual has received notice, served personally or by mail,
of the alleged violation and an opportunity for a hearing pursuant to §
113.99(C)(1) herein.
      (3)   Any administrative penalty under § 113.99(B)(2) herein, license
suspension or revocation or combination thereof does not preclude criminal
prosecution under this chapter or M.S. § 609.685. If criminal prosecution under
this chapter is sought, a civil penalty shall not be imposed.
      (4)   Any person who purchases or attempts to purchase tobacco, tobacco
products or tobacco-related devices and is under the age of 21 years may be
charged an administrative penalty of $50. The Council may also send notice of
such violation to the violator’s parents or school or order the violator to
attend tobacco free education programs or other court diversion programs or to
perform appropriate community service.
   (C)   Penalties for use of false identification and/or purchase or attempts
to purchase a licensed product by a person under the age of 21 shall be subject
to a civil penalty determined by law enforcement and court system
representatives from time-to-time pursuant to M.S. §§ 609.685 through 609.6855
and 461.12, subd. 4.
   (D)   Following receipt of a notice of denial issued under notice of a
violation and penalty, an applicant or license holder may request a hearing
before the Council.
      (1)   Hearing. A request for a hearing shall be made by the applicant or
license holder in writing and filed with the City Administrator within 20 days
of the mailing of the notice of denial or alleged violation. Following receipt
of a written request for hearing, the applicant or license holder shall be
afforded an opportunity for a hearing before the Council. If a committee of the
Council conducts the hearing, it shall report its findings and make a
recommendation to the full Council.
      (2)   Findings. If after the hearing the applicant or license holder is
found ineligible for a license, or in violation of this chapter, the Council
may affirm the denial, impose a fine, issue a suspension or revocation, or
impose any combination thereof as set forth in the section on violations and
penalties. The findings shall be set forth in writing and provided to the
individual, applicant or license holder.
      (3)   Default. If the applicant or license holder has been provided
written notice of the denial or violation and if no request for a hearing is
filed within the 20 day period, then the denial, penalty, suspension or
revocation shall take immediate effect by default. The City Administrator shall
mail notice of the denial, fine, suspension or revocation to the applicant or
license holder. The City Police shall investigate compliance with the
suspension or revocation.
   (E)   It is an affirmative defense to a charge under this chapter if the
license holder proves by a preponderance of the evidence that the license
holder reasonably and in good faith relied on proof of age as described in M.S.
Chapter 340A.503, subd. 6, in making the sale.
(Prior Code, § 6.32) (Am. Ord. 2, Second Series, passed 2-12-1998; Am. Ord.
2020-05, passed 9-21-2020)
CHAPTER 114: REGULATIONS FOR CHARITABLE GAMBLING
Section
   
114.01   Adoption of state law by reference
   
114.02   City may be more restrictive than state law
   
114.03   Purpose
   
114.04   Definitions
   
114.05   Applicability
   
114.06   Lawful gambling permitted
   
114.07   Council approval required
   
114.08   Application and local approval of premises permits
   
114.09   Recommendation for revocation or suspension of premises permit
   
114.10   License and permit display
   
114.11   Notification of material changes to application
   
114.12   Contribution of net profits to Public Safety Fund administered by city
   
114.13   Required charitable contribution
   
114.14   Records and reporting
   
114.15   Hours of operation
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   The provisions of M.S. Chapter 349, as they may be amended from time to
time, with reference to the definition of terms, conditions of operation,
provisions relating to sales, and all other matters pertaining to lawful
gambling are hereby adopted by reference and are made a part of this chapter as
if set out in full. It is the intention of the Council that all future
amendments of M.S. Chapter 349, are hereby adopted by reference or referenced
as if they had been in existence at the time this chapter was adopted.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.02 CITY MAY BE MORE RESTRICTIVE THAN STATE LAW.
   The Council is authorized by the provisions of M.S. § 349.213, as it may be
amended from time to time, to impose, and has imposed in this chapter,
additional restrictions on gambling within its limits beyond those contained in
M.S. Chapter 349.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate lawful gambling within the city,
to insure the integrity of operations, to provide for the use of net profits
only for lawful purposes permitted by law, and to aid the city public safety.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.04 DEFINITIONS.
   In addition to the definitions contained in M.S. § 349.12, as it may be
amended from time to time, the following terms are defined for purposes of this
chapter:
   BOARD. The State of Minnesota Gambling Control Board.
   CITY. The City of Jordan.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Jordan.
   LICENSED ORGANIZATION. An organization licensed by the Board.
   TRADE AREA. The municipal corporate boundaries of the Jordan Independent
School District.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.05 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall be construed to regulate all forms of lawful gambling
within the city except bingo conducted within a nursing home or a senior
citizen housing project or by a senior citizen organization if the prizes for a
single bingo game do not exceed $10, total prizes awarded at a single bingo
occasion do not exceed $200, no more than 2 bingo occasions are held by the
organization or at the facility each week, only members of the organization or
residents of the nursing home or housing project are allowed to play in a bingo
game, no compensation is paid for any persons who conduct the bingo, and a
manager is appointed to supervise the bingo.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.06 LAWFUL GAMBLING PERMITTED.
   Lawful gambling is permitted within the city provided it is conducted in
accordance with M.S. §§ 609.75 through 609.763, inclusive, as amended from time
to time; M.S. §§ 349.11 through 349.23, inclusive, as amended from time to
time; and this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.07 COUNCIL APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Lawful gambling shall not be conducted unless approved by the Council,
subject to the provisions of this chapter and state law.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.08 APPLICATION AND LOCAL APPROVAL OF PREMISES PERMITS.
   (A)   Any organization seeking to obtain a premises permit from the Board
shall file with the City Clerk an executed, complete duplicate application as
will be filed with the Board, together with all exhibits and documents
accompanying the application including a copy of the premises lease, and an
application specific to the city. An application for renewal of a premises
permit shall include a copy of the premises lease.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for issuance of a premises permit, the
City Clerk shall transmit the application to the Chief of Police for review and
recommendation.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall investigate the matter and make the review
and recommendation to the City Council as soon as possible, but in no event
later than 45 days following receipt of the notification by the city.
   (D)   Organizations applying for an initial state-issued premises permit
shall pay the city a $100 investigation fee. This fee shall be refunded if the
application is withdrawn before the investigation is commenced. If approved by
the City Council and the Board, a licensed organization will be responsible for
a $100 annual investigative fee for conducting lawful gambling within the city.
This fee will be used to examine records provided by the organization showing
revenue, expenditures and charitable donations.
   (E)   The applicant shall be notified in writing of the date on which the
Council will consider the recommendation concerning the premises permit.
   (F)   The Council shall by resolution approve or disapprove an application
for issuance or renewal of a premises permit within 60 days of receipt of the
application.
   (G)   The Council shall deny an application for issuance or renewal of a
premises permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Violation by the gambling organization of any state statute, state
rule, or a city ordinance relating to gambling within the last 5 years.
      (2)   Violation by the on-sale establishment or organization leasing its
premises for gambling of any state statute, state rule, or city ordinance
relating to the operation of the establishment, including, but not limited to,
laws relating to alcoholic beverages, gambling, controlled substances,
suppression of vice, and protection of public safety within the last 5 years.
      (3)   Operation of gambling at the site would be detrimental to the
health, safety, and welfare of the community.
      (4)   Otherwise, the Council shall pass a resolution approving the
application.
   (H)   A premises permit shall be valid for a term of 3 years from issuance.
The holder of a premises permit may apply for renewal of the permit.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.09 RECOMMENDATION FOR REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PREMISES PERMIT.
   (A)   The city may recommend to the Board that a premises permit be revoked
or temporarily suspended for a violation by the gambling organization of any
state statute, state rule, or city ordinance relating to gambling.
   (B)   The city shall not recommend a permit be revoked or suspended until
written notice and an opportunity for a hearing have first been given to the
organization or hosting establishment. The notice shall be sent by certified
mail. If the person refuses to accept notice, notice of the violation shall be
served by posting it on the premises. Notice shall state the provision
reasonably believed to be violated and shall also state that the organization
or establishment may demand a hearing on the matter. If the permitted person
requests a hearing, the Council shall hold a hearing on the matter at least 1
week after the date on which the request is made. If, as a result of the
hearing, the Council finds that an ordinance or rule violation exists, then the
Council may recommend suspension or revocation of the permit.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.10 LICENSE AND PERMIT DISPLAY.
   All permits issued under state law shall be prominently displayed at the
premises where gambling is conducted.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.11 NOTIFICATION OF MATERIAL CHANGES TO APPLICATION.
   An organization holding a state-issued premises permit shall notify the city
within 10 days in writing whenever any material change is made in the
information submitted on the application.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.12 CONTRIBUTION OF NET PROFITS TO PUBLIC SAFETY FUND ADMINISTERED BY
CITY.
   (A)   Each organization licensed by the Board to conduct lawful gambling
within the city shall annually contribute 10% of the net profits, as that term
is defined in M.S. § 349.12, Subd. 27, to a fund administered and regulated by
the city without cost to the fund. The city shall disburse the funds for
police, fire, or other emergency or public safety-related services, equipment
or training, but not pension obligations.
   (B)   Payment under this section shall be made by February 1 of the calendar
year after which the funds were earned.
   (C)   The city’s use of such funds shall be determined at the time of
adoption of the city’s annual budget or when the budget is amended.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016; Am. Ord. 2023-08, passed 11-27-2023)
§ 114.13 REQUIRED CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTION.
   (A)   As permitted by M.S. §§ 349.213, subd. 1(g), each organization
licensed to conduct gambling within the city shall annually expend 75% of its
"net profits" as that term is defined in M.S. § 349.12, subd. 27, within the
city's trade area.
   (B)   This section applies only to lawful purpose expenditures of net
profits derived from gambling conducted at a premises within the city’s
jurisdiction.
   (C)   Payments under §§
114.12 and
114.13 herein are due quarterly. A failure to comply with this section within
20 days of the end of each quarter may result in the city moving to suspend the
organization's premises permit(s) in the city.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.14 RECORDS AND REPORTING.
   (A)   Organizations conducting lawful gambling shall file with the City
Administrator 1 copy of all records and reports required to be filed with the
Board, pursuant to M.S. Chapter 349, as it may be amended from time to time,
and rules adopted pursuant thereto, as they may be amended from time to time.
The records and reports shall be filed on or before the day they are required
to be filed with the Board.
   (B)   Organizations licensed by the Board shall file reports with the city
proving compliance with the trade area spending requirements imposed by §
114.13 of this code. Such report shall be made on a form prescribed by the city
and shall be submitted quarterly, within 20 days of the end of each quarter.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.15 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Lawful gambling shall not be conducted between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on
any day of the week.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter; M.S. §§ 609.75
through 609.763, inclusive, as they may be amended from time to time; or M.S.
§§ 349.11 through 349.21, as they may be amended from time to time; or any
rules promulgated under those sections, as they may be amended from time to
time, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to a fine of not more than
$1,000 or imprisonment for a term not to exceed 90 days, or both, plus in
either case the costs of prosecution. In addition, violations shall be reported
to the Board and recommendation shall be made for suspension, revocation, or
cancellation of an organization's license.
(Ord. 2016-05, passed 11-7-2016)
CHAPTER 115: PEDDLING AND SOLICITATION
Section
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   License required
   
115.04   Regulation of transient merchants
   
115.05   Application license fee
   
115.06   License issuance procedure
   
115.07   Suspension of license
   
115.08   Revocation of license
   
115.09   Registration of solicitors
   
115.10   Practices prohibited
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   This section is not intended to in any way hinder, delay or interfere with
legitimate business or organizational activities. The purpose of this section
is to regulate peddling and soliciting within the City of Jordan. These
regulations will attempt to ensure that appropriate business practices are
maintained, and will provide for relief from improper business activities or
harassing conduct by peddlers and solicitors regulated by this section.
(Prior Code, § 6.34) (Am. Ord. 20, Second Series, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person who goes from house to house, from place to place, or
from street to street, carrying or transporting goods, wares or merchandise,
and who sells and delivers merchandise at the same time he or she offers it for
sale.
   SOLICITOR. A person who goes from house to house, place to place, street to
street for the purpose of obtaining or attempting to obtain orders for goods,
wares, products, merchandise, other personal property or service, of which the
person may be carrying or transporting samples, or that may be described in a
catalog or by other means, and for which delivery or performance shall occur at
a later time.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. A person who temporarily sets up business out of a
vehicle, trailer, boxcar, tent, other portable shelter, empty store front,
vacant lot or parking lot for the purpose of exposing or displaying for sale,
selling or attempting to sell, and delivering, goods, wares, products,
merchandise or other personal property.
(Prior Code, § 6.34) (Am. Ord. 20, Second Series, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 115.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any peddler or transient merchant to engage in any
such activity within the city without first having secured a license.
   (B)   The license does not exempt compliance with other applicable state and
federal laws.
      (1)   Exemptions. The provision of this section shall not apply to
merchants or their employees delivering goods in the regular course of
business; to persons who distribute printed material but who do not make
personal contact with the resident thereon; to the daily delivery of
newspapers; door-to-door canvas for a political candidate or question; to the
sale at wholesale to a retailer; to the delivery of perishable food or dairy
products to customers on an established delivery route; and to activities
associated with the exercise of a person’s constitutional rights (freedom of
press, speech, religion and the like) provided that no merchandise is
concurrently offered for sale.
      (2)   Non-profit organizations. Peddlers representing a religious or
nonprofit charitable organization registered at the Office of the Secretary of
State, State of Minnesota shall be exempt from the licensing requirement, but
shall be required to register with the city according to provision of §
115.09.
(Prior Code, § 6.34) (Am. Ord. 20, Second Series, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 115.04 REGULATION OF TRANSIENT MERCHANTS.
   (A)   Eligibility for transient merchant license. A transient merchant shall
be eligible for a city license only under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Transient merchant operates within a building in accordance with
the zoning and other applicable codes and ordinances.
      (2)   Transient merchant operates in any other circumstances in
compliance with requirements of division (B) below.
   (B)   Exceptions. 
      (1)   No license shall be required for the following activities: The sale
of farm or garden products on property upon which such products were grown; any
sale under court order; garage sales, rummage sales, estate sales conducted by
the property owner; or any sale conducted by a properly licensed auctioneer.
The number of such occasions per property shall be limited to 3 per year, and
the duration of each occasion shall be limited to 4 days.
      (2)   Any organization or business maintaining a brick and mortar site
within Jordan city limits is exempt from transient merchant licensing
requirements for special events if the organization or business has been
approved as part of the event by the event coordinator. All other organizations
and businesses must obtain a transient merchant license to operate as part of a
special event. No transient merchant even though licensed, shall operate within
the city of Jordan during community festivals or special events, unless
operating at the event.
      (3)   Licensing and use of a mobile food unit is governed by Jordan City
Code
Chapter 125.
(Prior Code, § 6.34) (Am. Ord. 20, Second Series, passed 5-3-1999; Am. Ord.
2018-06, passed 5-7-2018)
§ 115.05 APPLICATION LICENSE FEE.
   (A)   Application for a city license to conduct business as a peddler or
transient merchant shall be made on a form available from the office of the
City Administrator/Treasurer, and shall be accompanied by the license fee,
which shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   All applications shall be signed by the applicant, and shall include
the following information:
      (1)   Applicant’s full legal name, permanent address, telephone number,
driver’s license number or other equivalent form of identification;
      (2)   Full legal name, address and telephone number of any and all
business operation(s) owned, managed or operated by the applicant; or, for
which the applicant is an employee or agent;
      (3)   The type of business for which the applicant is applying for a
license;
      (4)   The dates during which the applicant intends to conduct business;
      (5)   Any and all addresses and telephone numbers where the applicant can
be reached while conducting business within the city;
      (6)   The names and addresses of all individuals who will participate in
the licensed sale campaign;
      (7)   A description and license plate number for any vehicle to be used
in conjunction with the licensed business;
      (8)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
within the last 5 years of any felony, gross misdemeanor, or misdemeanor for
violation of any state or federal statutes or any local ordinance, other than
traffic offenses;
      (9)   A list of the most recent locations where the applicant has
conducted business as a peddler or transient merchant;
      (10)   The building intended to be utilized (by a transient merchant) and
written permission of the owner of the property;
      (11)   A general description of the items to be sold or services to; and
      (12)   All additional information deemed necessary by the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.34) (Am. Ord. 20, Second Series, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 115.06 LICENSE ISSUANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Applications. All applications for licensing shall be immediately
referred to the City Administrator or other person acting on the City
Administrator’s behalf. Upon receipt, the City Administrator or designee shall
review the application and conduct any investigation necessary to verify the
provided information.
   (B)   Ineligibility for a license. The Administrator shall recommend denial
of the license if, during the course of the investigation, any of the following
circumstances are discovered:
      (1)   The applicant has failed to truthfully provide any of the
information requested by the city as part of the application.
      (2)   The applicant has been convicted, within the past 5 years from the
date of application, of any violation of federal or state law, or any local
ordinance which adversely affects the person’s ability to conduct the licensed
be provided, or that will adversely affect the health, safety and welfare of
the residents of the city. The violations shall include, but are not limited to
burglary, theft, larceny, swindling, fraud, assault or unlawful business
practices.
      (3)   The revocation of any license issued to the applicant for the
purpose of conducting business as a peddler, solicitor or transient merchant
within the past 5 years.
      (4)   The applicant has received more than 3 complaints against the
applicant with the Better Business Bureau, the Attorney General’s Office or
other similar business or consumer rights office or agency within the preceding
12 months or the city discovers other reliable evidence that applicant’s
business may adversely impact the welfare of the residents of the city.
   (C)   City Council review/decision. The Administrator shall forward the
application and a recommendation to approve or deny the license to the City
Council within 14 regular business days after receipt of the application. If
the Council approves the application, the Administrator shall be instructed to
issue a license to the applicant. If the Council rejects the application, the
applicant shall be notified in writing of the decision, the reason for the
denial, and of the applicant’s right to appeal the denial by requesting within
10 days of receiving the Council’s notice of rejection, a public hearing to be
heard by the City Council within 20 days of the date of the request. The final
decision of the Council following the hearing shall be subject to an appeal by
petitioning the Minnesota Court of Appeals for a Writ of Certiorari.
   (D)   Duration. A license granted under this chapter shall be valid only
during the time period indicated on the license. In no case shall a license be
valid longer than 1 calendar year.
   (E)   Transferability. No license issued under this chapter shall be
transferred to any other person.
(Prior Code, § 6.34) (Am. Ord. 20, Second Series, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 115.07 SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Any license issued under and pursuant to this chapter may be suspended
for up to 20 days by the Chief of Police with approval of the City
Administrator, without notice, if the licensee:
      (1)   Uses fraud, misrepresentation or false statements during the course
of licensed activity;
      (2)   Has been subsequently convicted of any offense for which granting
of a license could have been denied under this chapter;
      (3)   Conducts the business in an unlawful manner or such a manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace, or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or general welfare of the public; and/or
      (4)   Violates any part of this chapter.
   (B)   A suspension for longer than 20 days must be approved by the City
Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.34) (Am. Ord. 20, Second Series, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 115.08 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Notification.
      (1)   After the suspension of any license issued under this section, the
city shall provide the license holder with written notice of the alleged
violation(s) and inform the licensee of their right to a hearing on the alleged
violation.
      (2)   Notice shall be delivered in person or by mail to the permanent
residential address listed on the license application, or if no residential
address is listed, to the business address provided on the license application.
   (B)   Public hearing.
      (1)   Upon receipt of the notification, the licensee shall have the right
to request a public hearing. If no request is received by the City
Administrator within 10 regular business days following the personal service of
the notice or deposit of the notice in the First Class U.S. Mail, the city may
impose a longer suspension or revoke the license at a regular Council meeting.
If a public hearing is requested within the stated time frame, a hearing shall
be scheduled within 20 days from the date of the request with publication of
the hearing.
      (2)   Within 3 regular business days of the hearing, the City Council
shall notify the licensee of its decision.
   (C)   Appeal. Any person whose license is suspended or revoked under this
chapter shall have the right appeal that decision in court.
(Prior Code, § 6.34) (Am. Ord. 20, Second Series, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 115.09 REGISTRATION OF SOLICITORS.
   (A)   Registration with the city shall be required of all solicitors, and of
all peddlers and solicitors representing non-profit organizations who, during
the course of a door-to-door campaign, solicit money either as a donation (for
a charitable cause) or for the purchase of goods or service. Registration shall
be made on the same form required for a license application, but no fee shall
be required. A preliminary background check shall be completed of all
solicitors who intend on conducting door to door solicitations. Convictions of
crimes such as theft, theft by swindle, fraud, or any similar crime shall
disqualify said solicitor from receiving a permit. Upon successful completion
of the background check, the Chief of Police shall issue a non-transferable
certificate of registration to the solicitor. The Chief of Police may revoke
any certificate upon evidence of misuse or if unethical practices are used in
their solicitation practices.
   (B)   All persons associated with the organization registering and who will
be participating in the actual soliciting or peddling must carry a copy of the
valid certificate of registration on their person at all times while engaged in
activity which falls under the category of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6.34) (Am. Ord. 20, Second Series, passed 5-3-1999)
§ 115.10 PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall call attention to
their business or to their merchandise by crying out, by blowing a horn, or
ringing a bell or by the making of other noise of a volume that it is audible
within the confines of an enclosed dwelling structure.
   (B)   No peddler or solicitor shall enter in or upon any premises or attempt
to enter in or upon any premises wherein a sign or placard bearing the notice
“Peddlers or Solicitors Prohibited”, or language similar thereto, is located.
   (C)   No peddler or solicitor shall refuse to leave a premise when requested
to do so by the owner, lessee or person in charge of the premises, or, to
otherwise conduct business in a manner that a reasonable person would find
obscene, threatening, intimidating or abusive.
   (D)   No business shall be conducted before 9:00 a.m. or after 8:00 p.m.
   (E)   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall obstruct the free
flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic on any street, alley, sidewalk,
required parking area (whether public or private) or other public right-of-way.
   (F)   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall refuse or fail to
provide proof of license or registration when requested by the property owner
or representative of the city.
   (G)   No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall make any false or
misleading statements about the product or service being sold, including untrue
statements or endorsements. No peddler, solicitor or transient merchant shall
claim to have the endorsement of the city solely based on the city having
issued a license or certificate of registration to that person.
(Prior Code, § 6.34) (Am. Ord. 20, Second Series, passed 5-3-1999) Penalty, see
§
115.99
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this section shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine as described in M.S.
§ 609.02, subd. 3, as amended, or a jail sentence not to exceed 90 days, or
both, plus the cost of prosecution. Each day a violation exists shall
constitute a separate violation for the purposes of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6.34) (Am. Ord. 20, Second Series, passed 5-3-1999)
CHAPTER 116: GARBAGE HAULERS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Compliance with chapter required
   
116.03   Exception
   
116.04   Commercial haulers licensee requirements
   
116.05   Residential haulers license requirements
   
116.06   Disposal of waste to approved sites only
   
116.07   Payment on accounts
   
116.08   License required
   
116.09   Suspension or revocation of license
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COLLECTOR. Any person or company collecting or hauling the waste, garbage or
rubbish of another for hire.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any premise where a commercial, industrial or
agricultural enterprise of any kind is carried on, including clubs, churches,
schools, any building containing 6 or more residential units, and any mixed-use
building located in the Central Business District.
   COMMINGLED (e.g., DUMPSTER-TYPE) RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION. Collections from
any building consisting of more than 1 dwelling unit wherein each unit has an
individual kitchen and wherein the mixed solid waste of each unit is mixed with
the waste of other units prior to collection.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building materials, packaging and rubble
resulting from construction, remodeling, repair and demolition of buildings or
roads.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal, vegetable or organic refuse resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   INDIVIDUAL (e.g., CURBSIDE) RESIDENTIAL COLLECTION. Collection from any
building consisting of 1 or more dwelling units wherein each unit has an
individual kitchen, bathroom and separate entrance and wherein the mixed solid
waste of each unit is separately collected by licensed haulers.
   MIXED SOLID WASTE. Garbage, refuse, and other solid waste from residential,
commercial, industrial and community activities that the generator of the waste
aggregates for collection, but does not include auto hulks, street sweepings,
ash, construction debris, mining waste, sludges, tree and agricultural waste,
tires, lead acid batteries, used oil, and other materials, collected processed
and disposed of as separate waste streams.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials that are separated from mixed municipal
solid waste for the purpose of recycling, including paper, glass, plastics,
metals, automobile oil and batteries. Refuse derived fuel or other material
that is destroyed by incineration is not a recyclable material.
   RECYCLING CENTER or RECYCLING DEPOT. A site, either publicly or privately
owned and operated, equipped to receive, handle, store and process recyclable
materials.
   RESIDENTIAL DWELLING. Any single building consisting of 4 or less dwelling
units with individual kitchen and bathroom facilities and separate entrances
for each.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid waste of all kinds, combustible or non-
combustible, consisting of tin cans, glass, paper, cardboard, yard clippings,
wood, ashes, street sweepings and all other inorganic refuse.
   SPECIAL PICK-UP. Any collection of materials other than garbage, recyclables
or yard waste, including white goods (e.g., large appliances), furniture,
oversized materials, construction debris and other materials collected,
processed and disposed of as separate waste streams.
   TARGETED RECYCLABLES. Metal containers, glass containers, newsprint or other
materials as more particularly described herein:
      (1)   ALUMINUM RECYCLABLES. Includes clean aluminum foil and all
disposable containers fabricated primarily of aluminum and commonly used for
soda, beer or other beverages.
      (2)   BI-METAL RECYCLABLES. Includes cans containing, or using 2 metals.
More specifically, tin cans manufactured of steel and tin and which have all
paper removed therefrom.
      (3)   GLASS RECYCLABLES. Includes all glass bottles and jars which are
rinsed clean.
      (4)   PAPER RECYCLABLES. Includes paper of the type commonly referred to
as newsprint, bundled and tied, or placed in large brown paper grocery bags.
Expressly excluded from PAPER RECYCLABLES, however, are all magazines or
similarly constructed periodicals.
      (5)   PLASTIC RECYCLABLES. Includes all #1 and #2 plastic containers.
      (6)   Other items as accepted by the refuse hauler.
   YARD WASTE. Includes garden wastes, leaves, lawn cuttings, weeds, shrub and
tree waste and prunings, but excluding bushes, fibrous brush, woody materials,
or other materials that are not readily compostible within a calendar year.
(M.S. § 115A.03, Subd. 38) (Prior Code, § 6.35) (Am. Ord. 2011-18, passed 12-5-
2011)
§ 116.02 COMPLIANCE WITH CHAPTER REQUIRED.
   (A)   The City Council finds that, pursuant to statute, the city is
obligated to ensure that residents and commercial entities have solid waste
collection service; that in furtherance of this obligation, it is in the best
interest of the public to encourage, and if necessary compel, the use of
methods of disposing of waste that help preserve and benefit our environment;
and the benefits to be derived from this chapter are in the best interest of
the public.
   (B)   Every residential dwelling, boarding house, multiple dwelling,
manufactured home park and commercial establishment or combination thereof
shall dispose of waste as provided in this chapter.
   (C)   All residential dwelling units shall pay for collection through the
city contract with 1 residential hauler.
      (1)   Residential pick-up must be through the city's contract for
residential refuse pick-up.
      (2)   All other business or multi-family dwelling units shall dispose of
refuse through a solid waste commercial hauler licensed by the city.
   (D)   It is unlawful for any person to haul mixed solid waste, yard waste or
recyclables without a license therefor from the city, or to haul mixed solid
waste, yard waste or recyclables from his or her own residence or business
property other than as herein excepted.
(Prior Code, § 6.35) (Am. Ord. 2011-18, passed 12-5-2011) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 116.03 EXCEPTION.
   Nothing in this section shall prevent persons from hauling mixed solid
waste, yard waste or other refuse or recyclables from their own residences or
business properties provided the following rules are observed:
   (A)   That all garbage is hauled in containers that are water-tight on all
sides and the bottom and with tight-fitting covers on top;
   (B)   That all other refuse is hauled in vehicles with leak-proof bodies and
completely covered or enclosed by canvas or other means or material so as to
completely eliminate the possibility of loss of cargo;
   (C)   That all solid waste, yard waste and other refuse, except recyclables,
are dumped or unloaded at designated sanitary landfills or other facilities
authorized by Scott County;
   (D)   That all recyclables are dumped or unloaded at a recycling facility,
an organized recycling drive, or through licensed haulers; and
   (E)   That yard waste is privately composted, or is dumped or unloaded at a
composting facility authorized by Scott County, or through a licensed hauler.
(Prior Code, § 6.35)
§ 116.04 COMMERCIAL HAULERS LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Commercial haulers shall be licensed if they meet the city’s licensing
criteria; are licensed by the county; and, pay the Council designated fee.
Criteria for licensing includes having a water-tight vehicle, that the vehicle
be clean and reasonably free from offensive odors, that the vehicle not be
allowed to stand in any street longer than is reasonably necessary, and that
the refuse be dumped or unloaded only at a designated sanitary land-fill, and
strictly in accordance with regulations relating thereto. 
   (B)   Before a garbage, refuse or recycling hauler license shall be issued,
the applicant shall file with the City Administrator evidence that he or she
has provided public liability insurance on all vehicles in at least the sum of
$600,000 for comprehensive general liability, personal injury and automobile
liability.
   (C)   No hauler shall operate in a residential district after 6:00 p.m. or
before 6:00 a.m., Monday through Friday, but operations may be conducted during
permitted hours on Saturday to accommodate recognized national holidays or a
special pick-up.
   (D)   Each vehicle for which a hauler’s license is issued shall exhibit the
license in a prominent position on the vehicle.
   (E)   Licensees shall provide its customers with an opportunity to recycle
through the weekly curbside collection of targeted recyclables and also provide
the customers with a schedule for the pick-up.
   (F)   Licensees shall be in compliance with all requirements relating to
processing and handling of garbage and refuse as set forth under Minnesota
Statute.
(Prior Code, § 6.35) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 116.05 RESIDENTIAL HAULERS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The residential hauler license shall be granted to 1 firm selected
through an open competitive bidding process. The residential hauler must be
licensed by Scott County, must use water-tight vehicles, separate recycling
materials, transport a majority of refuse to processing plants, and transport a
minority of refuse to designated sanitary landfills strictly in accordance with
regulations relating thereto.
   (B)   The city shall enter into a contract with the residential refuse
hauler for a maximum 5-year term, which can be renewed at the city's option if
a reasonable rate can be negotiated, and if the performance of the hauler has
been adequate. The city shall charge the residential hauler an annual fee and
require a performance bond in an amount set by Council.
(Prior Code, § 6.35) (Am. Ord. 2011-18, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 116.06 DISPOSAL OF WASTE TO APPROVED SITES ONLY.
   No person or company shall dispose of waste anywhere within the city except
at a site approved by Scott County.
(Ord. 2011-18, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 116.07 PAYMENT ON ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   The collector licensed to pick up all residential accounts in the city
will bill and collect the residential accounts directly. The billing will be 6
times a year, at a rate established in the city's contract with the collector.
   (B)   (1)   The city finds that public safety and health require garbage and
refuse pick-up. In order to ensure payment for the garbage collection service,
the city chooses to exercise its authority to assess for collection services as
allowed by M.S. § 443.015.
      (2)    The collector licensed to pick up residential accounts may certify
to the City Administrator all delinquent accounts of more than 15 days.
         (a)   Delinquent accounts shall be certified to the Administrator, who
shall prepare an assessment roll each year, providing for the assessment of
delinquent amounts against the respective property serviced.
         (b)   The assessment roll shall be delivered to the City Council for
adoption on or before September 1 of each year.
         (c)   Upon such adoption, the City Administrator shall certify the
assessment roll to the county for collection along with real property taxes.
         (d)   The city will add a $25 administrative fee to the hauler's
charge, and the interest rate shall be 6%.
         (e)   The city will remit the tax revenue due to the hauler following
the first payment of taxes from the county.
(Ord. 2011-18, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 116.08 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall collect or haul mixed municipal solid waste or
recyclables collected in the city without first securing a license from the
city.
   (B)   An applicant for a license to collect commercial garbage or waste
shall make application to the City Administrator, through forms and procedures
prescribed by the City Administrator.
   (C)   The annual license fee shall be established by resolution of the City
Council from time to time, and shall be payable in full in certified funds at
the time of application.
   (D)   No collector licensed pursuant to this chapter shall acquire a vested
right in the license issued, and the city may, upon a finding that the public
necessity requires, establish other means of waste collection.
(Ord. 2011-18, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 116.09 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Upon the recommendation of the City Administrator or on its own
motion, the City Council may suspend or revoke the license of any person whose
conduct is found to be in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Suspension or revocation may also be based on other health, safety or
welfare concerns arising out of the performance of the licensee, its employees
and agents and/or its vehicles and equipment.
   (C)   Revocation or suspension of a license by the Council shall be preceded
by a public hearing conducted in accordance with M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.70.
      (1)   The City Council may appoint a hearing examiner or may conduct a
hearing itself.
      (2)   The hearing notice shall be given at least 10 days prior to the
hearing, including notice of the time and place of the hearing, and shall state
the nature of the charges against the licensee.
(Ord. 2011-18, passed 12-5-2011)
CHAPTER 117: ANIMAL BUSINESSES
Section
General Provisions
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   License not transferable
   
117.03   Revocation or suspension
Kennels
   
117.10   License required
   
117.11   License fee
   
117.12   Exception
   
117.13   Zoning
   
117.14   Private kennels
   
117.15   Commercial kennels
   
117.16   Rights of the city
   
117.17   Kennel permit procedures
Stables
   
117.25   License required
   
117.26   Exception
   
117.27   Public stables
   
117.28   Insurance required
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL KENNEL. Any place, building, tract of land, abode or vehicle,
wherein or whereon 3 or more dogs or cats, or combination, over 6 months of
age, are kept, kept for sale, or boarded. A COMMERCIAL KENNEL houses pets for
limited periods of time in exchange for a fee.
   PRIVATE KENNEL. Houses only pets owned by the property owner or resident.
   PRIVATE STABLE. Any stable used exclusively to keep horses, mules or donkeys
for the private use of the owners and their immediate family, where no
compensation is paid or barter exchanged for animal care, training or breeding.
   PUBLIC STABLE. Any stable used to keep horses, mules or donkeys for the use
of the general public where compensation is paid or barter exchanged for animal
care, training or breeding.
   STABLE. Any place, building, tract of land, abode or vehicle, wherein or
whereon 1 or more horses, mules or donkeys are kept, kept for sale or boarded.
(Prior Code, § 6.36; § 6.38) (Am. Ord. 53, Second Series, passed 3-3-2003; Am.
Ord. 70, Second Series, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 117.02 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Every kennel or stable license shall be issued to a real party in interest
in the enterprise or business, and unless otherwise provided, no license shall
be assigned or transferred.
§ 117.03 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Any kennel or stable license may be suspended or revoked by the City
Council at any time for the following reasons:
      (1)   For conditions or consideration which, had they existed at the time
of issuance, would have been valid grounds for its denial;
      (2)   For any misrepresentation of a material fact in the application
discovered after the issuance of the license;
      (3)   For any misrepresentation or materially false statement made in the
course of carrying on the trade, business or profession;
      (4)   For violation of any provision of this chapter or other federal,
state or municipal law or ordinance relating to the operation of the business
or enterprise for which the license has been issued; or
      (5)   Upon conviction of a licensee for any federal, state or municipal
law or ordinance involving the creation of a nuisance, a breach of the peace,
interference with the rights of property owners, or any other offense
constituting a threat to the public health, safety, morals or general welfare
of the public.
   (B)   A suspension shall become effective upon notice served upon the
licensee. The notice shall contain a written summary of the reasons for the
suspension and a statement concerning the right to appeal the decision to the
City Council. The notice shall be delivered by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the address given on the licensee's application.
   (C)   A licensee may have a hearing before the City Council prior to
revocation. The licensee shall have 30 days following a revocation hearing to
correct any violations of this code that provided the basis for the revocation,
during which 30 days, the revocation shall be stayed.
KENNELS
§ 117.10 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate or maintain a kennel without a
license therefor from the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.36) (Am. Ord. 53, Second Series, passed 3-3-2003; Am. Ord. 70,
Second Series, passed 12-15-2003) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 117.11 LICENSE FEE.
   Kennel permits shall be reviewed annually. The fees for permits will be set
by the City Council and reviewed on an annual basis.
(Prior Code, § 6.36) (Am. Ord. 53, Second Series, passed 3-3-2003; Am. Ord. 70,
Second Series, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 117.12 EXCEPTION.
   Hospitals and clinics operated by licensed veterinarians exclusively for the
care and treatment of animals are exempt from the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 6.36) (Am. Ord. 53, Second Series, passed 3-3-2003; Am. Ord. 70,
Second Series, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 117.13 ZONING.
   No license shall be issued to a person for operation of a public kennel in a
zoning district where the operation is not permitted or otherwise allowed under
the Zoning Chapter of the City Code.
(Prior Code, § 6.36) (Am. Ord. 53, Second Series, passed 3-3-2003; Am. Ord. 70,
Second Series, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 117.14 PRIVATE KENNELS.
   (A)   Private kennel permits are required when more than 3 domestic pets
(dogs, cats, rabbits, birds and the like) are housed at a residential location.
This permit may allow a combination of up to 5 animals over the age of 6
months.
   (B)   Any documented violations such as excessive animal noise, unsanitary
conditions and the like shall be grounds for additional conditions being placed
on the permit holder or revocation of the permit.
   (C)   The type, number and breed of animals shall appear on the kennel
application.
(Prior Code, § 6.36) (Am. Ord. 53, Second Series, passed 3-3-2003; Am. Ord. 70,
Second Series, passed 12-15-2003; Am. Ord. 2012-02, passed 4-2-2012)
§ 117.15 COMMERCIAL KENNELS.
   A commercial kennel is a business where any number of dogs and/or cats over
6 months of age are kept, confined or congregated for the purpose of selling,
boarding, breeding, training or grooming for a commercial profit.
(Prior Code, § 6.36) (Am. Ord. 53, Second Series, passed 3-3-2003; Am. Ord. 70,
Second Series, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 117.16 RIGHTS OF THE CITY.
   (A)   The applicant for a license must consent to a city inspection of the
premises with minimal notice.
   (B)   The city may deny an application or revoke kennel permits based on
findings of unsanitary conditions, neglect of the animals, excessive animal
noise that causes discomfort to other residents, or failure to allow an
inspection of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 6.36) (Am. Ord. 53, Second Series, passed 3-3-2003; Am. Ord. 70,
Second Series, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 117.17 KENNEL PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   (1)   An application for a kennel permit shall be submitted to the
City of Jordan accompanied by the appropriate fee.
      (2)   The applicant must also submit an acknowledgment form signed by
each of the surrounding property owners stating that the applicant has notified
the property owners of the application and that they may contact the city with
any comments regarding the issuance of the permit.
   (B)   (1)   The city shall issue permits on a calendar year basis. The
permit shall expire annually on January 1.
      (2)   First time applicants shall receive a pro-rated permit fee, which
shall start on the first day of the month in which the application is received.
(Prior Code, § 6.36) (Am. Ord. 53, Second Series, passed 3-3-2003; Am. Ord. 70,
Second Series, passed 12-15-2003)
STABLES
§ 117.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate or maintain a private stable.
Private stables existing as of January 1, 1996 are permitted under an annual
private license until the use is discontinued, structures are substantially
destroyed, license is revoked or property is sold.
(Prior Code, § 6.38) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 117.26 EXCEPTION.
   Hospitals and clinics operated by licensed veterinarians exclusively for the
care and treatment of horses, mules and donkeys are exempt from the provisions
of this subchapter, provided they operate on at least 2 acres of land.
(Prior Code, § 6.38)
§ 117.27 PUBLIC STABLES.
   (A)   Public stables may be allowed if the Council determines that the
property is appropriately zoned and has ample room for the healthy maintenance
of horses.
   (B)   The Council reserves the right to monitor and regulate the number of
animals and conditions of keep.
(Prior Code, § 6.38)
§ 117.28 INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   The applicant for a public stable license under this subchapter shall
provide evidence of liability insurance with limits not less than $100,000 per
person and $300,000 per accident.
(Prior Code, § 6.38)
  CHAPTER 118: THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE
Section
   
118.01   Findings of the City Council
   
118.02   M.S. Chapter 146A adopted by reference
   
118.03   Definitions
   
118.04   License required
   
118.05   Exceptions
   
118.06   License application
   
118.07   License fees
   
118.08   License application verification and consideration
   
118.09   Persons ineligible for license
   
118.10   Reserved
   
118.11   Reserved
   
118.12   Locations ineligible for therapeutic massage enterprise license
   
118.13   License restrictions
   
118.14   Restrictions regarding sanitation and health
   
118.15   Renewal of license
   
118.16   Sanctions for license violations
   
118.17   Sauna parlor prohibited
§ 118.01 FINDINGS OF THE CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council of the city makes the following findings regarding the need
to license therapeutic massage enterprises and therapists and to prohibit all
other types of massage businesses and services to the public:
   (A)   Persons who have bona fide and standardized training in therapeutic
massage, health, and hygiene can provide a legitimate and necessary service to
the general public.
   (B)   Health and sanitation regulations governing therapeutic massage
enterprises and therapists can minimize the risk of the spread of communicable
diseases and can promote overall health and sanitation.
   (C)   License qualifications for the restrictions on therapeutic massage
enterprises and therapists can minimize the risk that such businesses and
persons will facilitate prostitution and other criminal activity in the
community.
   (D)   Massage services provided by persons with no specialized and
standardized training in massage can endanger citizens by facilitating the
spread of communicable diseases, by exposing citizens to unhealthy and
unsanitary conditions, and by increasing the risk of personal injury.
   (E)   Massage businesses which employ persons with no specialized and
standardized training can tax city law enforcement services because such
businesses are more likely to be operated as fronts for prostitution and other
criminal activity than operations established by persons with standardized
training.
   (F)   The training of professional massage therapists at accredited
institutions is an important means of ensuring the fullest measure of
protecting the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 118.02 M.S. CHAPTER 146A ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   M.S. Chapter 146A, known as "Complementary and Alternative Health Care
Practices," is hereby incorporated herein and adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 118.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCREDITED INSTITUTION. An educational institution holding accredited status
from the North Central Association of Colleges and Schools (NCA) or another
regional accrediting agency approved by the United States Department of
Education.
   ACCREDITED PROGRAM. A professional massage program accredited by the
International Massage and Somatic Therapies Accreditation Council (IMSTAC), the
Commission on Massage Therapy Accreditation (COMTA), or a comparable national
or regional organization that evaluates program compliance with quality and
competency standards through a process of periodic review and self-study.
   CITY. The City of Jordan.
   CLEAN. The absence of dirt, grease, rubbish, garbage, and other offensive,
unsightly, or extraneous matter.
   GOOD REPAIR. Free of corrosion, breaks, cracks, chips, pitting, excessive
wear and tear, leaks, obstructions, and similar defects so as to constitute a
good and sound condition.
   MASSAGE. Any method of pressure on, or friction against, or the rubbing,
stroking, kneading, tapping, pounding, vibrating, stimulating, or rolling of
the external parts of the human body with the  hands or with the aid of any
mechanical or electrical apparatus, or other appliances or devices, with or
without such supplementary aids as rubbing alcohol, liniment, antiseptic, oil,
powder, cream, lotion, ointment, or other similar preparations.
   MASSAGE THERAPIST. An individual who practices or administers massage to the
public who can demonstrate to the city that he or she:
      (1)   Has current insurance coverage of $1,000,000 for professional
liability in the practice of massage;
      (2)   Is affiliated with, employed by, or owns a therapeutic massage
enterprise licensed by the city; and
      (3)   Has completed 400 hours of certified therapeutic massage training
from a bona fide school that has been properly accredited, or has 1 year of
experience practicing massage therapy as established by an affidavit and can
document within 2 years of obtaining the license that he or she has completed
400 hours of certified therapeutic massage training from a bona fide school. If
no such documentation can be established at the time of license renewal, the
license shall not be renewed and the person who received the license based upon
experience is precluded from receiving a license in the future unless the
person has the requisite certified hours.
   OPERATE. To own, manage, or conduct, or to have control, charge, or custody
over.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, joint
venture, or combination of individuals.
   THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE ENTERPRISE. A person who operates a business which hires
only licensed therapeutic massage therapists to provide massage to the public.
The owner/operator of a therapeutic massage enterprise need not be licensed as
a therapeutic massage therapist if he or she does not at anytime practice or
administer massage to the public.
   WITHIN THE CITY. Includes physical presence as well as telephone referrals
such as phone-a-massage operations in which the business premises, although not
physically located within the city, serves as a point of assignment of
employees who respond to requests for services from within the city.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 118.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise license. It shall be unlawful for any
person to operate, engage in, or carry on, within the city, any type of massage
services to the public for consideration without first having obtained a
therapeutic massage enterprise license from the city pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Massage therapist license. It shall be unlawful for any individual to
practice, administer, or provide massage services to the public for
consideration within the city without first having obtained a massage therapist
license from the city pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 118.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   A therapeutic massage enterprise or therapist license is not required for
the following persons and places:
   (A)   Persons duly licensed by this state to practice medicine, surgery,
osteopathy, chiropractic, physical therapy, or podiatry, provided the massage
is administered in the regular course of the medical business and not provided
as part of a separate and distinct massage business;
   (B)   Persons duly licensed by this state as beauty culturists or barbers,
provided such persons do not hold themselves out as giving massage treatments
and provided the massage by beauty culturists is limited to the head, hand,
neck, and feet and the massage by barbers is limited to the head and neck;
   (C)   Persons working solely under the direction and control of a person
duly licensed by this state to practice medicine, surgery, osteopathy,
chiropractic, physical therapy, or podiatry;
   (D)   Places duly licensed or operating as a hospital, nursing home,
hospice, sanitarium, or group home established for the hospitalization or care
of human beings; and/or
   (E)   Students of an accredited institution who are performing massage
services in the course of a clinical component of an accredited program of
study, provided that the students are performing the massage services at the
location of the accredited institution and provided the students are identified
to the public as students of massage therapy. Students of an accredited
institution who are performing massage services at clinics or other facilities
located outside of the accredited institution must have at least 150 hours of
certified therapeutic massage training at the accredited institution prior to
performing the therapy outside of the institution and must be identified to the
public as a student of massage therapy.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 118.06 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise license application. An application for
a therapeutic massage enterprise license shall be made on a form supplied by
the city and shall request the following information:
      (1)   All applicants. For all applicants:
         (a)   Whether the applicant is an individual, corporation,
partnership, or other form of organization;
         (b)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed together
with a plan of the area showing dimensions, location of buildings, street
access, and parking facilities;
         (c)   The floor number, street number, and rooms where the massage
services are to be conducted;
         (d)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid,
the years and amounts that are unpaid;
         (e)   Whenever the application is for premises either planned or under
construction or undergoing substantial alteration, the application shall be
accompanied by a set of preliminary plans showing the design of the proposed
premises to be licensed. If the plans for design are on file with the city's
Building Inspector, no additional plans need be submitted;
         (f)   The name and street address of the business if it is to be
conducted under a designation, name, or style other than the name of the
applicant, and a certified copy of the certificate as required by M.S. §
333.02;
         (g)   Such other information as the City Council or the city shall
require.
      (2)   Individuals. For applicants who are individuals:
         (a)   The name, place and date of birth, and street residence address
of the applicant;
         (b)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name
other than the applicant's current name, and if so, the name or names and
information concerning dates and places where used;
         (c)   Whether the applicant is a citizen of the United States or a
resident alien or has the legal authority to work in the United States;
         (d)   Street addresses at which the applicant has lived during the
preceding 5 years;
         (e)   The type, name, and location of every business or occupation the
applicant has been engaged in during the preceding 5 years;
         (f)   Names and addresses of the applicant's employers for the
preceding 5 years;
         (g)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any crime, or
violation of any ordinance other than a minor traffic offense. If so, the
applicant shall furnish information as to the time, place and offense for which
convictions were had;
         (h)   Whether the applicant has ever been engaged in the operation of
massage services. If so, applicant shall furnish information as to the name,
place and length of time of the involvement in such an establishment.
      (3)   Partnerships. For the applicants that are partnerships, the names
and addresses of all general and limited partners and all information
concerning each general partner as is required in division (2) of this section.
The managing partners shall be designated, and the interest of each general and
limited partner in the business shall be disclosed. A true copy of the
partnership agreement shall be submitted with the application, and if the
partnership is required to file a certificate as to a trade name under M.S. §
333.02, a certified copy of such certificate shall be submitted. The license
shall be issued in the name of the partnership.
      (4)   Corporations and other organizations. For applicants that are
corporations or other types of organizations:
         (a)   The name of the organization, and if incorporated, the state of
incorporation;
         (b)   A true copy of the certificate of incorporation, and, if a
foreign corporation, a certificate of authority as described in M.S. § 303.02;
         (c)   The name of the general manager, corporate officers, proprietor,
and other persons in charge of the premises to be licensed, and all the
information about said persons as is required in division (2) of this section;
         (d)   A list of all persons who own or control an interest in the
corporation or organization or who are officers of said corporation or
organization, together with their addresses and all the information regarding
such persons as is required in division (2) of this section.
   (B)   Massage therapist license application. An application for a massage
therapist license shall be made on a form supplied by the city and shall
request the following information:
      (1)   The applicant's name and current address;
      (2)   The applicant's current employer;
      (3)   The applicant's employers for the previous 5 years, including the
employer's name, address and dates of employment;
      (4)   The applicant's addresses for the previous 5 years;
      (5)   The applicant's date of birth, home telephone number, weight,
height, color of eyes, and color of hair;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has ever been convicted of any crime, or
violation of any ordinance other than a minor traffic offense and, if so, the
time, place, and offense for which convictions were had;
      (7)   Whether the applicant is a U.S. citizen or resident alien or has
the legal authority to work in the United States;
      (8)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name other
than the applicant's name, and if so, the name or names and information
concerning dates and places where used;
      (9)   Whether the applicant has met the definition of massage therapist
in §
118.03 of this code;
      (10)   Such other information as the City Council or the city shall
require.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 118.07 LICENSE FEES.
   The fees for a therapeutic massage enterprise and therapist licenses,
including an investigation fee, shall be as set forth in the city's fee
schedule adopted by the City Council annually. Each application for a license
shall be accompanied by payment in full of the required license and
investigation fees, if applicable.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 118.08 LICENSE APPLICATION VERIFICATION AND CONSIDERATION.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise license. The initial application for an
enterprise license under this chapter shall be presented to the City Council
for consideration after the city has verified the information on the initial
license. The city is empowered to conduct any and all investigations to verify
the information on the application, including ordering a computerized criminal
history inquiry and/or a driver's license history inquiry on the applicant. The
City Council shall hold a public hearing prior to approving or denying the
license, which public hearing shall be advertised at least 10 days prior to the
scheduled date of the hearing. The City Council may accept or deny the license
application after such public hearing.
   (B)   Massage therapist license: verification and consideration. Within a
reasonable period after receipt of a completed application and fee for a
massage therapist license, the city shall grant or deny the application. The
city is empowered to conduct any and all investigations to verify the
information on the application, including ordering a computerized criminal
history inquiry and/or a driver's license history inquiry on the applicant.
Notice shall be sent by regular and certified mail to the applicant upon a
denial informing the applicant of the right to appeal to the City Council
within 20 days. If an appeal is properly made, the matter shall be placed on
the next available City Council agenda.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 118.09 PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Therapeutic massage enterprise license. No therapeutic massage
enterprise license shall be issued to a person who:
      (1)   Is not 18 years of age or older at the time the application is
submitted to the city;
      (2)   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 2, and who has not shown
competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform
the duties and responsibilities of a licensee as prescribed by M.S.§ 364.03,
Subd. 3;
      (3)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien, or is
legally prohibited from working in the United States;
      (4)   Is not of good moral character or repute;
      (5)   Is not the real party in interest of the enterprise;
      (6)   Has knowingly misrepresented or falsified information on the
license application;
      (7)   Cannot meet the definition of therapeutic massage enterprise in §
118.03 of this code;
      (8)   Owes taxes or assessments to the state, county, school district, or
city that are due and delinquent; or
      (9)   Has been granted any type of liquor, malt liquor or wine license by
the city.
   (B)   Massage therapist license. No massage therapist license shall be
issued to a person who:
      (1)   Is not 18 years of age or older at the time the application is
submitted to the city;
      (2)   Has been convicted of any crime directly related to the occupation
licensed as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 2, and who has not shown
competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform
the duties and responsibilities of a licensee as prescribed by M.S. § 364.03,
Subd. 3;
      (3)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien, or is
legally prohibited from working in the United States;
      (4)   Is not of good moral character or repute;
      (5)   Has knowingly misrepresented or falsified information on the
license application;
      (6)   Is not affiliated with, employed by, or does not own a therapeutic
massage enterprise licensed by the city;
      (7)   Cannot meet the definition of massage therapist in §
118.03 of this code; or
      (8)   Is not allowed to practice under M. S. Chapter 146A.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 118.10 RESERVED.
§ 118.11 RESERVED.
§ 118.12 LOCATIONS INELIGIBLE FOR THERAPEUTIC MASSAGE ENTERPRISE LICENSE.
   (A)   Delinquent taxes. No therapeutic massage enterprise shall be licensed
if such enterprise is located on property on which taxes, assessments, or other
financial claims to the state, county, school district, or city are due and
delinquent. In the event a suit has been commenced under M.S. §§ 278.01 through
278.13, questioning the amount or validity of taxes, the City Council may on
application waive strict compliance with this provision; no waiver may be
granted, however, for taxes or any portion thereof, which remain unpaid for a
period exceeding 1 year after becoming due.
   (B)   Improper zoning. No therapeutic massage enterprise shall be licensed
if the location of such enterprise is not in conformance with the city's Zoning
Code.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 118.13 LICENSE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Posting of license. A therapeutic massage enterprise license issued
must be posted in a conspicuous place on the premises for which it is used. A
person licensed as a massage therapist shall have on such person at all times
therapeutic massage services are rendered the photo identification card issued
by the city.
   (B)   Licensed premises. A therapeutic massage enterprise license is only
effective for the compact and contiguous space specified in the approved
license application. If the licensed premises is enlarged, altered, or
extended, the licensee shall inform the city. A massage therapist license shall
entitle the licensed therapist to perform on-site massage at a business, public
gathering, private home, or other site not on the therapeutic massage
enterprise premises.
   (C)   Transfer of license prohibited. The license issued is for the person
or the premises named on the approved license application, No transfer of a
license shall be permitted from place to place or from person to person without
complying with the requirements of an original application.
   (D)   Affiliation with enterprise required. A massage therapist shall be
employed by, affiliated with, or own a massage enterprise business licensed by
the city, unless a person or place is specifically exempted from obtaining a
therapeutic massage enterprise license in §
118.05 of this code.
   (E)   Employment of unlicensed massage therapists prohibited. No therapeutic
massage enterprise shall employ or use any person to perform massage who is not
licensed as a therapeutic massage therapist under this chapter, unless the
person is specifically exempted from obtaining a therapist license in §
118.05 of this code.
   (F)   Coverage of genitals during massage. The licensee shall require that
the person who is receiving the massage shall at all times have his or her
genitals covered with non-transparent material or clothing.
   (G)   Therapist clothing requirements. Any therapist performing massage
shall at all times have his or her breasts, buttocks, anus, and genitals
covered with a non-transparent material or clothing.
   (H)   Effect of license suspension or revocation. No licensee shall solicit
business or offer to perform massage services while under license suspension or
revocation by the city.
   (I)   Massage of certain body parts prohibited. At no time shall the massage
therapist intentionally massage or offer to massage the penis, scrotum, mons
veneris, vulva, or vaginal area of a person.
   (J)   Alcohol is prohibited. No beer, liquor, narcotic drug or controlled
substances, as such terms are defined by state statutes or the City Code, shall
be permitted on licensed premises.
   (K)   Locks. No doors of massage rooms, when occupied by 1 or more persons,
shall be locked. All locks, if any, shall be keyed only from the exterior of
the massage rooms.
   (L)   Discrimination. No massage therapy establishment shall discriminate
between persons on the basis of race, color, creed, sex or national origin or
ancestry.
   (M)   Non-business hours. No licensee may be open for business between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 118.14 RESTRICTIONS REGARDING SANITATION AND HEALTH.
   (A)   Toilet room requirements. A licensed therapeutic massage enterprise
shall be equipped with adequate and conveniently located toilet rooms for the
accommodation of its employees and patrons. The toilet room shall be well
ventilated by natural or mechanical methods and be enclosed with a door. The
toilet room shall be kept clean and in good repair and shall be adequately
lighted.
   (B)   Paper/linen requirements. A licensed therapeutic massage enterprise
shall provide single-service disposal paper or clean linens to cover the table,
chair, furniture, or area on which the patron receives the massage; or in the
alternative, if the table, chair, or furniture on which the patron receives the
massage is made of material impervious to moisture, such table, chair, or
furniture shall be properly sanitized after each massage.
   (C)   Washing of hands required. The massage therapist shall wash his or her
hands and arms with water and soap, anti-bacterial scrubs, alcohol, or other
disinfectants prior to and following each massage service performed.
   (D)   Inspection. All premises licensed under this section shall, during all
operating hours, be open to inspection by any health or police officer to
determine whether or not this section and all other laws are being observed.
All persons, as a condition to being issued such license, consent to such
inspections by such officers and without a warrant for searches and seizures.
   (E)   Inspection prohibition. Licensee and agents or employees of a licensee
are prohibited from hindering or preventing a police or health officer from
making such an inspection.
   (F)   Manager or agent. Before a license is issued under this section to an
individual who is a nonresident of the city, to more than 1 individual whether
or not they are residents of the city, or to a corporation, partnership, or
association, the applicant or applicants shall appoint in writing a natural
person as its on-premises manager or agent. Such on-premises manager or agent
shall, by the terms of his or her written consent, (1) take full responsibility
for the conduct of the licensed premises, and (2) serve as agent for service of
notices and other process relating to the license. Such manager or agent must
be a person who, by reason of age, character, reputation, and other attributes,
could qualify individually as a licensee. If such manager or agent ceases to be
located at the licensed premises or ceases to act in such capacity for the
licensee without appointment of a successor, the license issued pursuant to
such appointment shall be subject to revocation or suspension.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 118.15 RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   A massage therapist license issued under this chapter shall expire on August
31 of each year. An enterprise license issued under this chapter shall expire
on August 31 of each year. An application for the renewal of an existing
license shall be made at least 30 days prior to the expiration date of the
license and shall be made in such form as the city requires. Within a
reasonable period after the completion of the renewal license verification
process, the city shall accept or deny the license application in accordance
with this chapter. If the application for renewal is denied, the city shall
notify the applicant of the determination in writing and by regular and
certified mail to the address provided on the application form. The notice
shall inform the applicant of the right, within 20 days after receipt of the
notice by the applicant, to request an appeal of the city's denial to the City
Council. If an appeal to the City Council is timely received by the city, the
hearing before the City Council shall take place within a reasonable period of
receipt of the appeal by the city.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 118.16 SANCTIONS FOR LICENSE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Suspension or revocation. The City Council may suspend or revoke a
license issued pursuant to this chapter for a violation of:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in a license
application or a renewal application;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the course of
carrying on the licensed occupation or business;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter or state law;
      (4)   A licensee's criminal conviction that is directly related to the
occupation or business licensed as defined by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 2, provided
that the licensee cannot show competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation
and present fitness to perform the duties of the licensed occupation or
business as defined by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 3; and/or
      (5)   Conducting the licensed business or occupation in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the community.
   (B)   Notice and hearing. A revocation or suspension by the City Council
shall be preceded by written notice to the licensee and a hearing. The notice
shall give at least 8 days' notice of the time and place of the hearing and
shall state the nature of the charges against the licensee. The notice shall be
mailed by regular and certified mail to the licensee at the most recent address
listed on the license application.
   (C)   Practicing without a valid license. Practicing therapeutic massage
either as a massage therapist or operating a therapeutic massage enterprise
without the appropriate license shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 118.17 SAUNA PARLOR PROHIBITED.
   An establishment designed solely to provide sauna services is prohibited.
(Ord. 2007-008, passed 6-4-2007)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 119: RESERVED
CHAPTER 120: PAWNBROKERS, PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS AND SECONDHAND DEALERS
Section
   
120.01   Purpose
   
120.02   Definitions
   
120.03   License required
   
120.04   Application
   
120.05   License requirements
   
120.06   Fees
   
120.07   Restrictions and regulations
   
120.08   Identification of seller or pledger
   
120.09   Recordkeeping
   
120.10   Holding period
   
120.11   Receipt
   
120.12   Suspension or revocation of license
§ 120.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds that pawnbrokers, precious metal dealers and
secondhand dealers can provide an opportunity for the commission and
concealment of crimes, because the businesses have the ability to receive and
transfer stolen property easily and quickly. The City Council also finds that
consumer protection regulation is warranted in transactions involving
pawnbrokers, precious metal dealers and secondhand dealers. The purpose of this
section therefore is to prevent pawnbrokers, precious metal dealers and
secondhand dealers from being used as facilities for the commission of crimes
and to assure that the businesses comply with basic consumer protection
standards, thereby protecting the public health, safety and general welfare of
the citizens of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.13) (Am. Ord. 48, Second Series, passed 7-1-2002)
§ 120.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ITEM CONTAINING PRECIOUS METAL. An item made in whole or part of metal and
containing more than 1% by weight of silver, gold or platinum.
   PAWNBROKER. A person engaged in whole or part in the business of lending
money on the security of tangible personal property actually delivered into the
person’s possession, or in the business of purchasing tangible personal
property to be left with the person on the condition that it may be redeemed or
repurchased by the seller for a fixed price within a fixed period of time. No
bank, savings and loan association, or credit union shall be deemed a
PAWNBROKER for the purposes of this chapter.
   PAWNSHOP. Any business establishment operated by a pawnbroker.
   PRECIOUS METAL DEALER.
      (1)   Any person engaging in the business of buying coins or secondhand
items containing precious metal, including, but not limited to: jewelry,
watches, eating utensils, candlesticks, and religious and decorative objects,
as specified in M.S. § 325F.731.
      (2)   Persons conducting the following transactions shall not be deemed
to be PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS:
         (a)   Transactions at occasional garage sales, rummage sales, estate
sales or farm auctions, except that PRECIOUS METAL DEALERS must comply with the
requirements of M.S. §§ 325F.734 to 325F.742, for these transactions;
         (b)   Transactions regulated by M.S. Chapter 80A;
         (c)   Transactions regulated by the Federal Commodity Futures
Commission Act;
         (d)   Transactions involving the purchase of precious metal grindings,
filings, slag, sweeps, scraps or dust from an industrial manufacturer, dental
lab, dentist or agent thereof;
         (e)   Transactions involving the purchase of photographic film, such
as lithographic and X-ray film, or silver residue or flake recovered in
lithographic and X-ray film processing;
         (f)   Transactions in which the secondhand item containing precious
metal is exchanged for a new item containing precious metal and the value of
the new item containing precious metal exceeds the value of the secondhand
item, except that a person who is a precious metal dealer by engaging in a
transaction which is not exempted by this section, must comply with the
requirements of M.S. §§ 325F.734 to 325F.742;
         (g)   Transactions between precious metal dealers if both dealers are
licensed under M.S. § 325F.733, or if the seller’s business is located outside
of the state to a dealer who is licensed under M.S. § 325F.733; and
         (h)   Transactions in which the buyer of the secondhand item
containing precious metal is engaged primarily in the business of buying and
selling antiques, and the items are resold in an unaltered condition except for
repair, and the items are sold at retail, and the buyer paid less than $2,500
for the secondhand items containing precious metals purchased within any period
of 12 consecutive months.
   PRECIOUS METALS. Silver, gold, and platinum.
   SECONDHAND DEALER.
      (1)   A person engaged in the business of buying previously used, rented,
owned, or leased goods of any kind, including, but not limited to: coins, gold,
silver, jewelry, metal, guns and wrecked or dismantled motor vehicles, or motor
vehicles intended to be wrecked or dismantled.
      (2)   Persons conducting the following transactions shall not be deemed
to be SECONDHAND DEALERS:
         (a)   Transactions where all of the following are present:
            1.   The sale is held on property occupied as a dwelling by the
seller, or owned, rented or leased by a charitable organization;
            2.   The items offered for sale are owned by the occupant;
            3.   No sale exceeds a period of 72 consecutive hours;
            4.   No more than 4 sales are held in any 12-month period; and
            5.   None of the items offered for sale were purchased for resale
or received on consignment for the purpose of resale.
         (b)   Sales of goods at an auction held by an auctioneer;
         (c)   Transactions involving goods taken as partial or full payment
for new goods, where such business is incidental to and not the primary
business of the person;
         (d)   Transactions by a business specializing in the sale of antiques
and other goods more than 20 years old, where other transactions are incidental
to the antique business;
         (e)   The sale or exchange of used books, where the business gives
only credit and not cash for used books it acquires from customers;
         (f)   Purchases and sales of military goods, where all purchases are
directly from offices of the United States government or military surplus
wholesalers. Military clothing may also be purchased from current and former
military personnel;
         (g)   Bulk sales of property from a merchant, manufacturer or
wholesaler having an established place of business, or goods sold at open sale
from bankrupt stock;
         (h)   Sale of goods at an exhibition, provided the exhibition does not
last longer than 10 days in any 12-month period;
         (i)   Sales of automobiles by a licensed automobile dealer;
         (j)   Sales made by the Sheriff or other public officials in the
discharge of their official duties;
         (k)   Sales made by assignees or receivers appointed by the state or a
court to make sales for the benefit of creditors; and
         (l)   Sales by a charitable organization of donated items.
(Prior Code, § 6.13) (Am. Ord. 48, Second Series, passed 7-1-2002)
§ 120.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate as a pawnbroker, precious metal dealer or secondhand
dealer, operate a pawn shop, or work in the pawnbroker’s, precious metal
dealer’s or secondhand dealer’s business without a license from the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.13) (Am. Ord. 48, Second Series, passed 7-1-2002) Penalty, see
§
110.99
§ 120.04 APPLICATION.
   All applications for a license shall comply with the requirements of §
110.02 and shall also contain the following information:
   (A)   Whether the applicant holds a current pawnbroker, precious metal
dealer or secondhand goods dealer license from any other governmental unit;
   (B)   Whether the applicant is licensed under either M.S. §§ 471.924 or
325F.731 through 325F.744; and
   (C)   Whether the applicant has been previously denied a pawnbroker,
precious metal dealer or secondhand goods dealer license from any governmental
unit.
(Prior Code, § 6.13) (Am. Ord. 48, Second Series, passed 7-1-2002)
§ 120.05 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS.
   The following applicants are prohibited from obtaining a license under this
section:
   (A)   Any applicant who holds a liquor license pursuant to
Chapter 111 of this code;
   (B)   Any applicant or establishment who holds a license from the State of
Minnesota which permits gambling. The exception to this would be those who are
authorized by the director of the State lottery to sell lottery and scratch
game tickets;
   (C)   Any applicant under the age of 18; and/or
   (D)   Any applicant who is delinquent on any property taxes, assessments,
public utility bills or any other financial claims of any governmental entity.
(Prior Code, § 6.13) (Am. Ord. 48, Second Series, passed 7-1-2002)
§ 120.06 FEES.
   (A)   The following fees shall be assessed to the applicant.
   (B)   These fees shall be fixed and determined by the Council, adopted by
resolution, and uniformly enforced.
   (C)   The fees may be amended from time to time and shall be modified
following the rules set forth herein.
      (1)   License fee;
      (2)   Investigation fee;
      (3)   Transaction fee; and
      (4)   New employee background fee.
(Prior Code, § 6.13) (Am. Ord. 48, Second Series, passed 7-1-2002)
§ 120.07 RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Hours of operation. Hours of operation shall be limited to between 7:
00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (B)   Inspection. The licensee, shall at all times, allow the Police
Department to enter any portion of the building or property where the
licensee’s business is located or where goods are stored, for the purpose of
inspecting the building or property, for inspecting the items therein for the
purpose of locating items suspected or alleged to have been stolen or otherwise
improperly disposed of, and for the purpose of checking for violations of this
section.
   (C)   Minors. No person licensed under this section shall purchase or
receive personal property of any nature on deposit or pledge from any person
under the age of 18 years.
   (D)   Incompetents. No person licensed under this section shall purchase or
receive personal property of any kind from a person who is, or appears to be,
of unsound mind, incompetent or under the influence of alcohol or drugs.
   (E)   Prohibited items. No person licensed under this section shall accept
any item of property which contains an altered or obliterated serial number,
nor any item of property whose serial number has been removed.
   (F)   Licensed vehicles. No person licensed under this section shall accept
any vehicle licensed or subject to licensing by the State of Minnesota, unless
the vehicle is licensed and operable. The person licensed under this section
must be shown the title, and the seller must be named as owner on that title.
The title must be clearly visible on the videotape required in this section.
   (G)   Checks. All purchases and pawns, $50 or more, by a person licensed
under this section shall be made by check.
   (H)   Interest. The rate of interest charged on pawned items shall be posted
in a clearly visible location in the licensee’s building.
(Prior Code, § 6.13) (Am. Ord. 48, Second Series, passed 7-1-2002)
§ 120.08 IDENTIFICATION OF SELLER OR PLEDGER.
   (A)   The safety of the public is compromised when stolen property is easily
pawned or sold to pawnbrokers, precious metal dealers or secondhand dealers.
Due to the nature of these businesses, and the attraction these businesses have
to the criminally disposed, special regulation of the transactions is
necessary.
   (B)   A licensee shall not accept items of property unless the seller or
pledger provides to the licensee one of the following forms of identification:
(No other forms of identification shall be accepted).
      (1)   A valid Minnesota driver’s license;
      (2)   A Minnesota identification card issued by the Department of Public
Safety; and/or
      (3)   A photo identification issued by the state of residency of the
person from whom the item was received.
   (C)   A pawnbroker, precious metal dealer or secondhand goods dealer
licensed under this section shall run a videotape during all hours of
operation. Tapes shall be retained a minimum of 30 days. The quality of the
videotape shall be sufficient to clearly identify the seller or pledger, and to
clearly identify the goods involved in the transaction. Each tape shall
automatically record the date and time of each transaction. Videotape
recordings shall be provided to the Police Department upon request.
(Prior Code, § 6.13) (Am. Ord. 48, Second Series, passed 7-1-2002)
§ 120.09 RECORDKEEPING.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BILLABLE TRANSACTION. Every reportable transaction except renewals,
redemptions or extensions of existing pawns on items previously reported and
continuously in the licensee’s possession.
      REPORTABLE TRANSACTIONS. The receipt of any item of property, whether
sold or pawned, except:
         (a)   The bulk purchase or consignment of new or used merchandise from
a merchant, manufacturer or wholesaler having an established permanent place of
business, and the retail sale of said
merchandise; and
         (b)   Retail and wholesale sale of merchandise originally received by
pawn or purchase, and for which all applicable hold and redemption periods have
expired.
   (B)   Required information. At the time of any reportable transaction, other
than renewals, redemptions or extensions, every licensee must immediately
record in English, the following information in a computerized record approved
by the Police Department or designee:
      (1)   A complete and accurate description of each item including, but not
limited to: any trademark, identification number, serial number, model number,
brand name or other identifying mark on such an item;
      (2)   The purchase price, amount of money loaned upon or pledged
therefor;
      (3)   The maturity date of the transaction;
      (4)   The amount due, including monthly and annual interest rates and all
pawn fees and charges;
      (5)   Date, time and place the item was received by the licensee, and the
unique alpha and/or numeric transaction identifier that distinguishes it from
all other transactions in the licensee’s records;
      (6)   Full name, residence address, residence telephone number, date of
birth and an accurate description of the person from whom the item of the
property was received, including: sex, height, race, color of eyes and hair;
      (7)   The identification number and state of issue from any of the
following forms of identification of the seller or pledgor:
         (a)   A current, valid Minnesota driver’s license;
         (b)   A current, valid Minnesota identification card; and/or
         (c)   A current, valid identification card issued by another U.S.
state.
      (8)   The signature of the person identified in the transaction; and
      (9)   Any other information reasonably required by the Police Department.
   (C)   Transaction fee definition. Every licensee shall pay a billable
transaction fee for each billable transaction handled by the licensee. The
amount of the fee shall be set by resolution of the Council in an amount that
reflects the cost of processing billable transactions. Billable transaction
license fees shall be billed monthly and are due and payable within 30 days.
   (D)   Modem reporting.
      (1)   Licensees must submit every reportable transaction to the Police
Department daily by transferring it from their computer to the Police
Department via modem. All required records must be transmitted completely and
accurately after the close of business each day in accordance with the
standards and procedures established by the Police Department using procedures
that address security concerns and technological requirements of the licensees
and the Police Department.
      (2)   If a licensee is unable to successfully transfer the required
reports by modem, the licensee must have on the premises and available for
inspection by the Police Department, printed copies of all reportable
transactions that have not been reported by modem.
(Prior Code, § 6.13) (Am. Ord. 48, Second Series, passed 7-1-2002)
§ 120.10 HOLDING PERIOD.
   (A)   Whenever the Police Department notifies the licensee not to sell an
item, the item shall not be sold or removed from the licensed premises for a
period of 60 days, or until authorized to be released by the Police Department,
which ever comes first.
   (B)   The Police Department may remove items believed to be stolen from the
licensee’s premises and hold them in the Police Department property room until
it is determined whether they are stolen. Under M.S. § 609.523, the Police
Department may return stolen property to the owner, with no recompense to the
licensee. Upon criminal conviction, restitution may be sought for losses
experienced by a licensee. Each licensee is responsible for establishing
procedures to avoid receiving stolen property.
   (C)   Any item pawned to a licensee shall not be sold or otherwise
transferred for 60 days after the date of the sale or pawn.
   (D)   Each pledger shall be given a deadline for redeeming pawned property,
after which date the licensee may sell the item. This date shall be a day on
which the licensee is open for regular business.
(Prior Code, § 6.13) (Am. Ord. 48, Second Series, passed 7-1-2002)
§ 120.11 RECEIPT.
   (A)   The licensee shall provide a receipt to the seller or pledger of any
item of property received, which shall include the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the licensee’s business;
      (2)   The date on which the item was received by the licensee;
      (3)   A description of the item received and the amount paid to the
pledger or seller in exchange for the item pawned or sold;
      (4)   The signature of the licensee and seller or pledger;
      (5)   The deadline by which the item must be redeemed by the pledger
without risk that the item will be sold, and the amount of money necessary to
redeem the pawned item;
      (6)   The amount of interest charged on pawned items; and
      (7)   The name and address of the seller or pledger.
   (B)   The licensee shall provide a receipt to any purchaser of any item of
property for which more than $20 is paid, which shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address and phone number of the licensee’s business;
      (2)   The date on which the item was sold to the purchaser;
      (3)   A description of the item and amount paid to the licensee in
exchange for the item;
      (4)   The signature of the licensee and purchaser; and
      (5)   The name, address, home telephone number and work telephone number
of the purchaser.
   (C)   A legible copy of each receipt shall be retained by the licensee for
at least 4 years. The licensee shall make these records available during
regular business hours and at any other reasonable times for inspection by the
Police Department or other city official.
(Prior Code, § 6.13) (Am. Ord. 48, Second Series, passed 7-1-2002)
§ 120.12 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Council may suspend or revoke a license upon a finding of a
violation of any of the provisions of this section or any state statute
regulating pawnbrokers, precious metal dealers or secondhand dealers. Any
conviction by the pawnbroker, precious metal dealer or secondhand dealer for
theft, receiving stolen property, or any other crime or violation involving
stolen property shall result in an immediate suspension pending a hearing on
revocation of any license issued hereunder.
   (B)   Except in the case of immediate suspension pending a hearing by the
City Council, suspension or revocation shall be predicated by written notice to
the licensee and a public hearing. The written notice shall give at least 10
days notice of the time and place of the hearing and shall state the nature of
the charges against the licensee. The City Council may, without notice, suspend
any license pending a hearing of revocation for a period not exceeding 30 days.
The notice may be served upon the licensee by certified United States mail
addressed to the most recent address of the business in the license
application.
(Prior Code, § 6.13) (Am. Ord. 48, Second Series, passed 7-1-2002)
CHAPTER 121: FIREARMS AND/OR WEAPONS SALES
Section
   
121.01   Definitions
   
121.02   Procedures
   
121.03   Rules
   
121.04   Location
§ 121.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM.
      (1)   An alarm that consists of a minimum of 2 motion sensors and a
sensor at every entrance.
      (2)   This system must at all times be operable and monitored by an alarm
monitoring service.
   CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
      (1)   A permit issued by the City of Jordan authorizing the sale,
purchase and/or trading of firearms or weapons.
      (2)   This permit is valid for the specified location only.
   DANGEROUS WEAPONS/CHEMICAL WEAPONS/ELECTRONIC INCAPACITATION DEVICES. All
weaponry and chemicals used for personal protection, recreation and sporting
activities, or collectable weaponry which are not prohibited by state or
federal law.
   FIREARMS/WEAPONS RETAILER. An individual, company or corporation licensed to
sell firearms under 18 U.S.C. Chapter 44 by the United States Department of
Treasury, Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms or an individual, company or
business which sells dangerous weapons other than firearms and ammunition.
   LICENSED PREMISES. The location where an individual, company or corporation
has received a conditional use permit from the City of Jordan to operate a
business that sells, purchases and/or trades firearms, ammunition and/or
dangerous weapons or personal protection chemicals.
(Prior Code, § 6.40) (Am. Ord. 73, Second Series, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 121.02 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Any firearms/weapons retailer wishing to conduct the sale of same in
the City of Jordan must first obtain a conditional use permit from the city.
   (B)   The application for a conditional use permit may be obtained from the
City of Jordan Administrator’s Office. A 1-time application fee as set forth in
the City of Jordan’s fee schedule shall be submitted with the application.
   (C)   The city shall notify the applicant of approval or denial within 30
days of the time that the application was submitted to the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.40) (Am. Ord. 73, Second Series, passed 3-1-2004)
§ 121.03 RULES.
   (A)   The licensed retailer must follow all state and federal rules that
apply to the sale and possession of firearms and dangerous weapons.
   (B)   (1)   No person who is ineligible to possess firearms as described in
Minnesota state statute shall be involved in the sale or distribution of any
firearm.
      (2)   The licensed retailer shall submit a list of employees to the Chief
of Police.
      (3)   The Chief of Police shall conduct a background check on all
prospective employees to determine legal eligibility to sell or distribute
firearms.
      (4)   Each prospective employee shall undergo the same background check.
   (C)   Every licensed retailer shall have an alarm system as described in §
121.01 installed on the premises of the permitted location before any firearms,
ammunition, or dangerous weapons are brought onto the premises. This alarm
system shall remain operable for the duration that such weapons are at the
permitted location.
   (D)   The City of Jordan may revoke the permit or issue the appropriate
administrative or criminal citations for violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6.40) (Am. Ord. 73, Second Series, passed 3-1-2004) Penalty, see
§
110.99
§ 121.04 LOCATION.
   (A)   A conditional use permit granted by the city to a licensed retailer
may only allow the location of the business to be in the (C-2) Central Business
District, or in the (C-3) Highway Commercial District.
   (B)   A special home occupation license granted by the city to a licensed
retailer may only allow the location of the business to be in the (R-1) Single
Family Residential District.
   (C)   The business shall be open for inspection by the city without prior
notification.
(Prior Code, § 6.40) (Am. Ord. 73, Second Series, passed 3-1-2004; Am. Ord.
2018-02, passed 1-2-2018)
CHAPTER 122: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
122.01   Purpose
   
122.02   Findings
   
122.03   Definitions
   
122.04   Exceptions
   
122.05   License required
   
122.06   Person ineligible
   
122.07   Places ineligible
   
122.08   License application
   
122.09   Fees
   
122.10   Granting of licenses
   
122.11   Conditions of license
   
122.12   Restrictions and regulations
   
122.13   Suspensions and revocation of license
   
122.99   Penalty
   Appendix I   Resolution adopting the findings of the Report of the Attorney
General's Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses
   Appendix II   Report of the Attorney General's Working Group on the
Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses
§ 122.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prescribe licensing requirements for
sexually oriented businesses to protect the public health, safety, and welfare
and to prevent criminal activity and the spread of sexually-transmitted
diseases.
§ 122.02 FINDINGS.
   The City Council makes the following findings regarding the effect sexually
oriented businesses have on the character of the city's neighborhoods. In
making these findings, the City Council accepts the recommendations and
conclusions of the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group on the
Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses dated June 6, 1989, a copy of which
is referenced and included in Appendix II of this chapter. This chapter shall
have no force and effect until the City Council accepts these recommendations
by resolution of a majority of its members, using the model resolution
contained in Appendix I of this chapter.
   (A)   Sexually oriented businesses can contribute to an increase in criminal
activity in the area in which such businesses are located, increasing the
demands on city crime-prevention programs and law enforcement services.
   (B)   Sexually oriented businesses can be used as fronts for prostitution
and other criminal activity. The experience of other cities indicates that
proper management and operation of such businesses can minimize this risk.
   (C)   Sexually oriented businesses can increase the risk of exposure to
communicable diseases, including Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS),
for which there is currently no cure. Experiences of other cities indicate that
such businesses can facilitate the spread of communicable diseases by virtue of
the design and use of the premises, endangering not only the patrons of such
establishments but also the general public.
   (D)   Sexually oriented businesses can cause or contribute to public health
problems by the presence of live adult entertainment in conjunction with food
and/or drink on the same premises.
   (E)   A licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed in this chapter can
facilitate the enforcement of the city's "anti-blight" regulations, and can aid
in monitoring sexually oriented businesses for adverse secondary effects on the
community.
   (F)   The risk of criminal activity and/or public health problems can be
minimized through a licensing and regulatory scheme as prescribed in this
chapter.
§ 122.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and terms have the following meanings when used in this
chapter.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   A business that meets any of the following criteria, measured on a
daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly basis:
         (a)   Has more than 25% of its inventory, stock-in-trade, or publicly
displayed merchandise in sexually oriented materials;
         (b)   Devotes more than 25% of its floor area (not including
storerooms, stock areas, bathrooms, basements, or any portion of the business
not open to the public) to sexually oriented materials; or
         (c)   Derives more than 25% of its gross revenues from sexually
oriented materials; or
      (2)   A business that engages for any length of time in a sexually
oriented use as defined in this section or any other use that has an emphasis
on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED MATERIALS.  Visual, printed, or aural materials, and other
objects or devices, that:
      (1)   Contain, depict, simulate or describe specified sexual activities
or specified anatomical areas; or
      (2)   Are marketed for use in conjunction with, or are primarily used
only with or during specified sexual activities; or
      (3)   Are designed for sexual stimulation.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED USE.  Any of the following activities and businesses, even
if the activity exists for only a short-time:
      (1)   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO.  An establishment or business that
provides the service of applying paint, ink, or other substance, whether
transparent or non-transparent, to the body of a patron when the person is
nude.
      (2)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment or business used for the barter,
rental, or sale of items consisting of printed matter, pictures, slides,
records, audiotape, videotape, movies, or motion picture film if it meets the
criteria established in the definition of "sexually oriented business," as
defined in this section.
      (3)   ADULT CABARET.  A business or establishment that provides dancing
or other live entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on:
         (a)   The depiction of nudity, specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas; or
         (b)   The presentation, display, or depiction of matter that seeks to
evoke, arouse, or excite sexual or erotic feelings or desire.
      (4)   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT.  A business or establishment
that provides the service of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (5)   ADULT CONVERSATION/RAP PARLOR.  A business or establishment that
provides the services of engaging in or listening to conversation, talk, or
discussion distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (6)   ADULT HEALTH/SPORT CLUB.  A health/sport club that is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas.
      (7)   ADULT HOTEL OR MOTEL.  A hotel or motel that presents material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (8)   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR/HEALTH CLUB. A massage parlor or health club
that provides massage services distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (9)   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  A business or establishment
with a capacity of less than 50 persons that, as a prevailing practice,
presents on-premises viewing of movies, motion pictures, or other material
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (10)   ADULT MODELING STUDIO.  A business or establishment that provides
live models who, with the intent of providing sexual stimulation or sexual
gratification, engage in specified sexual activities or display specified
anatomical areas while being observed, painted, painted upon, sketched, drawn,
sculptured, photographed, or otherwise depicted.
      (11)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE.  Any place to which the public is
permitted or invited where coin or slug-operated or electronically,
electrically, or mechanically controlled or operated still or motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image-producing devices are used to show images
to five or fewer persons per machine at any one time, and where the images so
displayed are distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on depicting or
describing specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
      (12)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A motion picture theater with a
capacity of 50 or more persons that, as a prevailing practice, presents
material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons.
      (13)   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS.  An establishment or business that has a
variety of items for sale if it meets the criteria established in division (1)
of the definition of "sexually oriented business"defined in this section.
      (14)   ADULT SAUNA.  A sauna that excludes minors by reason of age, and
that provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the purpose of
bathing, relaxation, or reducing, if the service provided by the sauna is
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
      (15)   ADULT STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE FACILITY.  A building or portion of a
building used for providing a steam bath or heat bathing room used for the
purpose of pleasure, bathing, relaxation, or reducing, if the building or
portion of a building restricts minors by reason of age and if the service
provided by the steam room/bathhouse facility is distinguished or characterized
by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Shall include the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
area, buttocks, anus, or female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a state of sexual arousal, whether or not
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Shall include the following:
      (1)   Actual or simulated: sexual intercourse; oral copulation; anal
intercourse; oral-anal copulation; bestiality; direct physical stimulation of
unclothed genitals; flagellation or torture in the context of a sexual
relationship; the use of excretory functions in the context of a sexual
relationship; anilingus; coprophagy; coprophilia; cunnilingus; fellatio;
necrophilia; pedophilia; piquerism or zooerastia;
      (2)   Clearly depicted human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation,
arousal or tumescence;
      (3)   Use of human or animal ejaculation, sodomy, oral copulation, coitus
or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of nude human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks, or female breasts;
      (5)   Situations involving a person or persons, any of whom are nude, who
are clad in undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes and engaged in the
flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other physical restraint of any
person;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being; or
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation or vaginal or anal
irrigation.
§ 122.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter does not regulate the following:
   (A)   Material with significant literary content or social commentary;
   (B)   A business where sexually oriented materials are sold, bartered,
distributed, leased, furnished, or otherwise provided for off-site use or
entertainment, if the sexually oriented material on each item is blocked from
view by an opaque cover as required under M.S. § 617.293, as it may be amended
from time to time, and each item is in an area accessible only by an employee
of the business;
   (C)   A person or organization exempted under M.S. § 617.295;
   (D)   Activity regulated under M.S. § 617.251;
   (E)   Displaying works of art showing specified anatomical areas, so long as
no sexually oriented materials are for sale, and the business does not have a
liquor license; and
   (F)   Movies rated G, PG, PG-13, NC-17 or R.
§ 122.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person may own or operate a sexually oriented business within the city
unless the person is currently licensed under this chapter.
Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.06 PERSONS INELIGIBLE.
   No license may be issued to a person who:
   (A)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a resident alien;
   (B)   Is a minor at the time the application is filed;
   (C)   Has been convicted of a crime directly related to the licensed
occupation and has not shown competent evidence of sufficient rehabilitation
and present fitness to perform the duties of the owner, operator or manager of
a sexually oriented business under M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 3, as it may be amended
from time to time;
   (D)   Holds a liquor license under Jordan Code Chapter 111.
   (E)   In the judgment of the licensing authority, is not the real party in
interest or beneficial owner of the business operated under the license;
   (F)   Has had a license for a sexually oriented business or similar business
revoked anywhere within five years of the license application; or
   (G)   In the case of an individual, is not a resident of the state; in the
case of a partnership, the managing partner is not a resident of the state; or
in the case of a corporation, the manager is not a resident of the state. The
required residency must be established by the time the license is issued and
maintained throughout the existence of the license and all renewals. The time
for establishing residency may, for good cause, be extended by the licensing
authority.
   (H)   Applicant(s) or an applicant’s spouse is overdue or delinquent, or
subject to a penalty imposed by law for the late payment, in their payment to
the city, county, or state of taxes, fees, fines or penalties assessed against
them or imposed upon them in relation to a sexually oriented business.
   (I)   Applicant(s) is residing with a person who has been denied a license
by the city or any other Minnesota municipal corporation to operate a sexually
oriented business within the preceding 12 months or residing with a person
whose license to operate a sexually oriented business has been revoked within
the preceding 12 months.
   (J)   The premises to be used for the sexually oriented business has not
been approved by the health department, fire department, and the building
official as being in compliance with applicable laws and ordinance; such
inspection shall be completed within 30 days from the date the application was
submitted, provided that the application contains all of the information
required by this chapter. If the application is deficient, the inspections
shall be completed within 30 days from the date the deficiency has been
corrected.
   (K)   Applicant(s) has been employed in a sexually oriented business in a
managerial capacity within the preceding 12 months and has demonstrated that
they are unable to operate or manage a sexually oriented business premises in a
peaceful and law-abiding manner as evidenced by an excessive number of police
calls.
(Am. Ord. 2012-09, passed 8-20-2012) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.07 PLACES INELIGIBLE.
   No license may be issued for:
   (A)   A place or a business ineligible for a license under city ordinance or
state law;
   (B)   Operation in a zoning district where the business is not allowed
pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance of this code;
   (C)   A place or business that is currently licensed as a tattoo
establishment, pawnshop, massage business or establishment that sells alcoholic
beverages; or
   (D)   Operation on a premises on which taxes, assessments or other financial
claims of the city or other government agency are delinquent and unpaid, unless
the non-payment is not under the control of the applicant.
Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.08 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   The application for a sexually oriented business license under this
chapter must be made on a form supplied by the city and must provide the
following information:
      (1)   The business in connection with which the proposed license will
operate;
      (2)   The location of the business premises;
      (3)   The legal description of the premises to be licensed, including a
map of the area for which the license is sought, showing dimensions, locations
of buildings, street access and parking facilities;
      (4)   Whether all real estate and personal property taxes that are due
and payable for the premises to be licensed have been paid, and if not paid,
the years and amounts that are unpaid;
      (5)   Whether the applicant is the owner and operator of the business and
if not, who is;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has ever used or been known by a name other
than his or her true name, and if so, what was the name or names, and
information concerning dates and places where used;
      (7)   Whether the applicant is married or single. If married, the true
name, place and date of birth and street address of applicant's spouse;
      (8)   Street address at which the applicant and spouse have lived during
the preceding 10 years;
      (9)   Kind, name and location of every business or occupation the
applicant and spouse have been engaged in during the preceding 10 years;
      (10)   Names and addresses of the applicant's and spouse's employers and
partners, if any, for the preceding 10 years;
      (11)   Whether the applicant or spouse has ever been convicted of a
violation of a state law or local ordinance, other than a non-alcohol related
traffic offense. If so, the applicant must furnish information as to the time,
place and offense for which convictions were had;
      (12)   Whether the applicant or spouse has ever been engaged as an
employee or in operating a sexually oriented business, massage business, or
other business of a similar nature. If so, the applicant must furnish
information as to the time, place and length of time;
      (13)   Whether the applicant has ever been in military service. If so,
the applicant must, upon request, exhibit all discharges;
      (14)   If the applicant is a partnership, the name and address of all
partners and all information concerning each partner as is required of a single
applicant as above. A managing partner or partners must be designated. The
interest of each partner or partners in the business must be submitted with the
application and, if the partnership is required to file a certificate as to
trade name under the provisions of M.S. Ch. 333, as it may be amended from time
to time, a copy of the certificate must be attached to the application;
      (15)   If the applicant is a corporation or other organization, the
applicant must submit the following:
         (a)   Name, and if incorporated, the state of incorporation;
         (b)   Names and addresses of all officers;
         (c)   The name of the manager or proprietor or other agent in charge
of, or to be in charge of the premises to be licensed, giving all information
about said person as is required in the case of a single applicant; and
         (d)   A list of all persons who, single or together with their spouse,
own or control an interest in said corporation or association in excess of 5%
or who are officers of said corporation or association, together with their
addresses and all information as is required for a single applicant.
      (16)   The amount of the investment that the applicant has in the
business, land, building, premises, fixtures, furniture or stock-in-trade, and
proof of the source of the money;
      (17)   A list of responsible persons, including the names of owners,
managers and assistant managers, who may be notified or contacted by state or
city employees in case of emergency. These persons must be residents of the
state;
      (18)   Whether the applicant holds a current license for a sexually
oriented business or similar business from another governmental unit;
      (19)   Whether the applicant has ever been denied a license for a
sexually oriented business or similar business from another governmental unit;
and
      (20)   A sketch or diagram showing the configuration of the premises,
including a statement of total floor space occupied by the business, drawn to
scale or with marked dimensions of the interior to an accuracy within 6 inches.
      (21)   Other information that the city deems appropriate.
   (B)   No person may make a false statement or material omission in a license
application or investigation. A false statement or material omission is grounds
for denial, suspension or revocation of a license.
   (C)   Each licensee has the continuing duty to properly notify the Chief of
Police of a change in the information or facts required to be furnished on the
application for a license. This duty continues throughout the period of the
license. Failure to comply with this section will constitute cause for
revocation or suspension of the license.
   (D)   The application for the renewal of an existing license must be made at
least 90 days prior to the date of the expiration of the license and must be
made on the form which the city provides.
Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.09 FEES.
   (A)   An applicant for a license must pay to the city the investigation fee
specified by ordinance adopted by the city, as that ordinance may be amended
from time to time. This fee will be for the purpose of conducting a preliminary
background and financial investigation of the applicant. If the city believes
that the public interest so warrants, it may require a similar investigation at
the time of renewal of a license. If an investigation is ordered at the time of
license renewal, the applicant must pay the fee specified above, except that
the fee will be the smaller of the stated dollar amount or the actual cost of
the investigation. There will be no refund of the investigation fee after the
investigation has begun.
   (B)   The annual fees for a license shall be established by ordinance of the
City Council and amended from time to time.
   (C)   Each license expires on December 31 of the year in which it is issued.
Fees for licenses issued during the license year will be prorated according to
the number of months remaining in the year. For this purpose an unexpired
fraction of a month will be counted as a whole month having elapsed.
   (D)   No refund of a fee will be made except as authorized by ordinance.
§ 122.10 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   (A)   No license may be issued until the Police Department has conducted an
investigation of the representations set forth in the application, the
applicant’s and place of business’ eligibility pursuant to the requirements of
the City Code, and the applicant’s financial status. All applicants must
cooperate with this investigation.
   (B)   No license, except for a renewed license, may be issued for a sexually
oriented business until the Council has held a public hearing. Notice of the
hearing must be made in the same manner as that specified in this code, for a
zoning ordinance amendment affecting district boundaries. The Council must
grant the license unless the applicant or the location does not meet the
requirements of the city code, the application was incomplete, including
failure to pay fees or the application contained false information or a
material omission. If the application is denied, the city must notify the
applicant with the reason(s) stated for denial. Notification must be sent
certified, United States mail, return receipt requested, to the address
provided on the license application. If the Council fails to act on the
application within 120 days after receipt of a complete application, the
application will be deemed approved. An applicant wishing to appeal the action
of the City Council may seek a writ of certiorari before the Minnesota Court of
Appeals.
   (C)   (1)   The City Council may issue a license before an investigation,
notice and public hearing for an applicant who:
         (a)   Had a license within the previous 5 years for the establishment
that is specified in the application and that is continuing to operate under a
license;
         (b)   Wishes to resume operation of the business without sufficient
time, through no fault of his or her own, to meet the normal procedural
requirements;
         (c)   Had no criminal license convictions, or license suspensions or
revocations during the prior licensed period; and
         (d)   Otherwise qualifies and meets the requirements for a license.
      (2)   In this situation, the City Council may immediately issue an
interim license to the applicant for a period of no longer than 90 days. The
applicant must then proceed through the specified requirements for an
investigation, notice, and public hearing. At the public hearing the Council
will decide whether the license should continue in effect or be revoked. The
applicant has no greater right to continuation of the license than he or she
would have had to issuance of a new license following the normal procedure
without the interim license.
   (D)   A license will be issued only to the applicant and for the premises
described in the application. No license may be transferred to another person
or place without application in the same manner as an application for a new
license. Transfer of 25% or more of the stock of a corporation or of a
controlling interest of it, whichever is less, will be deemed a transfer of the
license. If the licensee is a corporation that is wholly owned by another
corporation, the same provisions about the transfer of a stock or a controlling
interest will apply to that parent corporation, any second parent corporation
that wholly owns the parent corporation, and all other similarly situated
parent corporations up through the chain of ownership. Transfer of this amount
of stock without prior Council approval is a ground for revocation or
suspension of the license. In addition, each day the licensee operates under
the license after a transfer has taken place without obtaining Council approval
will be a separate violation of this chapter.
   (E)   In the case of the death of a licensee, the personal representative of
a licensee may continue operation of the business for not more than 90 days
after the licensee's death.
(Am. Ord. 2012-09, passed 8-20-2012)
§ 122.11 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license is subject to the conditions in this section, all other
provisions of this chapter, and of other applicable regulations, ordinances or
state laws.
   (B)   A licensee is responsible for the conduct of his or her place of
business and the conditions of order in it. The act of an employee of the
licensed premises is deemed the act of the licensee as well, and the licensee
is liable for all penalties provided by this chapter equally with the employee,
except criminal penalties.
   (C)   The license must be posted in a conspicuous place in the premises for
which it is used.
Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.12 RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   A sexually oriented business is subject to the following restrictions and
regulations:
   (A)   No owner, manager or employee may allow sexually oriented materials or
entertainment to be visible or perceivable in any manner, including aurally, at
any time from outside of the business.
   (B)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a person under the age of 18
to enter the business.
   (C)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a person under the age of 18
to have access to sexually oriented materials, whether by sight, purchase,
touch or other means.
   (D)   No owner or manager may employ a person under the age of 18 on the
licensed premises.
   (E)   No owner, manager, or employee may have been convicted of a sex crime,
as identified in M.S. §§ 609.293 to 609.352, 609.746 to 609.749, 609.79 or
518B.01, as they may be amended from time to time, or related statute dealing
with sexual assault, sexual conduct, harassment, obscenity, or domestic abuse
within the past 5 years.
   (F)   No business may exceed 10,000 square feet in gross floor area.
   (G)   No owner, manager or employee may allow a patron, employee, or other
person on the premises to physically contact, in public view, a specified
anatomical area of himself or herself or of another person, except that a live
performer may touch himself or herself.
   (H)   A live performer must remain at all times a minimum distance of 10
feet from members of the audience, and must perform on a platform intended for
that purpose, that must be raised at least 2 feet from the level of the floor
on which the audience is located. No performer may solicit or accept money, a
tip, or other item from a member of the audience.
   (I)   No business may have booths, stalls, partitioned portions of a room,
or individual rooms, except as follows:
      (1)   Restrooms are allowed as long as they are no larger than reasonably
necessary to serve the purposes of a restroom, no other activities are provided
or allowed in the rooms, and there are no chairs, benches, or reclining
surfaces in the rooms; and
      (2)   Storage rooms and private offices are allowed, if the storage rooms
and offices are used solely for running the business and no person other than
the owner, manager and employees is allowed in them.
   (J)   A licensee must not be open for business to the public:
      (1)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the days of Monday through
Saturday; and
      (2)   Between 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sundays.
   (K)   No alcohol, controlled substances or gambling are permitted on the
licensed premises.
   (L)   A licensee, owner or employee may not knowingly permit any sex acts on
the premises.
Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.13 SUSPENSIONS AND REVOCATIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Delinquent taxes.  The City Council may suspend or revoke a license
issued under this chapter for operation on a premises on which real estate
taxes, assessments or other financial claims of the city or of the state are
due, delinquent, or unpaid, unless the non-payment is not under the control of
the licensee. If an action has been commenced under M.S. Ch. 278, as it may be
amended from time to time, questioning the amount or validity of taxes, the
Council may on application by the licensee waive strict compliance with this
provision; no waiver may be granted, however, for taxes, or a portion of them,
that remain unpaid for a period exceeding one year after becoming due, unless
the one-year period is extended through no fault of the licensee.
   (B)   Violations.
      (1)   The Council may either suspend for up to 60 days or revoke a
license for a violation upon a finding that the licensee or an agent or
employee of the licensee has failed to comply with an applicable statute,
regulation or ordinance relating to the subject matter of this chapter or
violated the statutes in division (B)(2) of this section. No suspension or
revocation will take effect until the licensee has been afforded an opportunity
for a hearing pursuant to M.S. §§ 14.57 to 14.69, as they may be amended from
time to time, with the exception of the suspension provided for in division (B)
(2) of this section.
      (2)   Conviction of a sex crime, as identified in M.S. §§ 609.293 to
609.352, 609.746 to 609.749, 609.79 or 518B.01, as they may be amended from
time to time, or related statute dealing with sexual assault, sexual conduct,
harassment, obscenity or domestic abuse by the licensee will result in the
immediate suspension pending a hearing on revocation of a license issued under
this chapter.
   (C)   Prompt judicial review. Prompt and final judicial review shall be
provided to any applicant or licensee when a license is denied, suspended or
revoked.
§ 122.99 PENALTY.
   Except as otherwise provided by state law, a person violating a provision of
this chapter is subject to the penalties established in §
10.99. A fine or sentence imposed does not affect the right of the city to
suspend or revoke the license of the licensee as the Council deems appropriate.
APPENDIX I    RESOLUTION ADOPTING THE FINDINGS OF THE REPORT OF THE ATTORNEY
GENERAL'S WORKING GROUP ON THE REGULATION OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
   WHEREAS because of its small size, the city lacks the resources to
investigate and research the impact sexually oriented businesses would have on
the character of the city's neighborhoods; and
   WHEREAS the city intends to rely on the Report of the Attorney General's
Working Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses, dated June 6,
1989, which is included as Appendix II to Chapter 122 of the City Code, as a
basis for regulating sexually oriented businesses in this city; and
   WHEREAS the members of the City Council have reviewed this Report;
   NOW THEREFORE, the City Council of this City hereby accepts the
recommendations and conclusions of this Report and adopts the recommendations
and conclusions by reference of the Report of the Attorney General's Working
Group on the Regulation of Sexually Oriented Businesses, dated June 6, 1989.
Signed:
                                                                               
      Mayor
Attest:
                                                                               
      City Clerk
APPENDIX II   REPORT OF THE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S WORKING GROUP ON THE REGULATION
OF SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 123: TAXICAB COMPANIES AND DRIVERS
Section
   
123.01   Taxicabs and drivers
   
123.02   Taxicab business license required
   
123.03   Application for taxicab license
   
123.04   Company license application verification
   
123.05   Public hearing
   
123.06   Issuance of taxicab licenses
   
123.07   Bond or insurance
   
123.08   Taxicab license fees
   
123.09   Transferability
   
123.10   Suspension and revocation of taxicab license
   
123.11   Taxicab driver’s license
   
123.12   Application for driver’s license
   
123.13   State driver’s license required
   
123.14   Investigation of applicant
   
123.15   Issuance of license
   
123.16   Grounds for denial of driver’s license
   
123.17   Display of driver’s license
   
123.18   Suspension and revocation of driver’s license
   
123.19   Vehicle inspection
   
123.20   Taximeter required
   
123.21   Rate schedule and cards
   
123.22   Receipts
   
123.23   Refusal to pay legal fare
   
123.24   Receipt and discharge of passengers
   
123.25   Number of passengers
   
123.26   Refusal to carry passengers
   
123.27   Manifests
 
   
123.99   Penalty
§ 123.01 TAXICABS AND DRIVERS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The corporate city limits of Jordan, Minnesota.
   PERSON. Includes an individual, a corporation or other legal entity, a
partnership, and any unincorporated association.
   RATE CARD. A card issued by the city for display in each taxicab which
contains the rates of fare then in force.
   TAXICAB. A motor vehicle regularly engaged in the business of carrying
passengers for hire having a seating capacity of no more than seven passengers
and not operated on a fixed route. It may also include the carrying of small
parcels and packages.
   TAXIMETER. A meter instrument or device attached to a taxicab which measures
mechanically the distance driven and the waiting time upon which the fare is
based.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.02 TAXICAB BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to operate or permit a taxicab owned or
controlled by that person to be operated as a vehicle for hire upon the streets
of the city without having first obtained a license from the city except as
otherwise permitted under this section.
   (B)   Any taxicab licensed to operate in another political subdivision of
this state may carry passengers to any place or point within the city, but
neither the owner nor operator of the taxicab shall be permitted to solicit or
pick up business within the city except:
      (1)   Where a return trip to the political subdivision in which the
taxicab is licensed has been previously arranged.
      (2)   When a taxicab is called into the city by a fare that wishes to be
taken to a political subdivision in which the taxicab is licensed.
   (C)   There shall be a presumption that the owner or operator of any taxicab
not licensed in the city who carries or picks up passengers within the city is
operating in violation of this section, and the burden shall be upon the owner
or operator of such taxicab to prove that the activities in question are
permitted under the exceptions provided in division (B) of this section.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.03 APPLICATION FOR TAXICAB LICENSE.
   An application for a taxicab license shall be filed with the City Clerk upon
forms provided, and the application shall furnish the following:
   (A)   The name, date of birth, and address of the applicant.
   (B)   The financial status of the applicant, including the amounts of all
unpaid judgments against the applicant and the nature of the transaction or
acts giving rise to the judgment.
   (C)   The experience of the applicant in the transportation of passengers.
   (D)   Any facts which the applicant believes tend to prove that public
convenience and necessity require the granting of a license.
   (E)   The number of vehicles to be operated or controlled by the applicant,
the location of proposed depots and terminals, the owner of the vehicles, and
the license number of each vehicle.
   (F)   The color scheme or insignia to be used to designate the vehicle or
vehicles of the applicant.
   (G)   A statement signed by the applicant indicating the applicant’s
understanding that falsification of any item on the application is sufficient
reason upon which to base a denial of the license or termination thereof.
   (H)   Such further information as the Council may require, including
documentation concerning the officers, owners of interest, partners, and the
like, of the applicant business entity.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.04 COMPANY LICENSE APPLICATION VERIFICATION.
   The city is empowered to conduct any and all investigations to verify the
information on the application, including ordering a computerized criminal
history inquiry and/or a driver’s license history inquiry on the applicant.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.05 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Upon the filing of an application, the City Clerk shall set a time and place
for a public hearing before the Council. Notice of such hearing shall be given
to the applicant and to all licensees. Due notice shall be given in the legal
newspaper at least ten days prior to such hearing.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.06 ISSUANCE OF TAXICAB LICENSES.
   (A)   If the Council finds that further taxicab service in the city is
desirable for the public convenience and necessity and that the applicant is
fit, willing, and able to perform such public transportation and to conform to
the provisions of this section, the Council shall grant a license stating the
name and address of the applicant and the number of vehicles authorized under
the license. Otherwise the application shall be denied.
   (B)   In making the above findings, the Council shall take into
consideration the number of taxicabs already in operation, whether existing
transportation is adequate to meet the public needs, the probable effect of
increased service on local traffic conditions, and the character, experience,
and responsibility of the applicant.
   (C)   The city shall issue a numbered identification tag which shall be
displayed upon the rear exterior of each licensed vehicle at all times during
the license period.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.07 BOND OR INSURANCE.
   (A)   No license shall be issued or continued in operation unless there is
in full force and effect a liability insurance policy for each vehicle
authorized in the amount of $100,000 for bodily injury to any one person in the
amount of $300,000 for injuries to more than one person which are sustained in
the same accident and $50,000 for property damage resulting from any one
accident. The insurance shall inure to the benefit of any person who shall be
injured or who shall sustain damage to property proximately caused by the
negligence of a holder, the holder’s servant or agents. Notwithstanding any
other provision of this chapter, the insurance coverage need not extend for the
exact term of the license if the applicant or licensee also operates similar
service in other cities.
   (B)   The Council may in its discretion allow the holder to file in lieu of
insurance policy a bond or bonds issued by a surety company authorized to do
business in the State of Minnesota.
   (C)   If the applicant for a license under this section had qualified as a
self insurer under M.S. § 65B.48, Subd. 3, as amended, and has filed with the
City Clerk a certified copy or a duplicate original of the self-insurance
certificate issued by the State Commissioner of Highways, then no policy of
insurance or surety bond shall be required to be filed with the city.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.08 TAXICAB LICENSE FEES.
   No license shall be issued or continued in operation unless the holder
thereof has paid the annual license fee as prescribed by the city’s approved
fee schedule which is updated annually. All licenses shall terminate on
December 31 after initial issuance and shall be renewed annually.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.09 TRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   No license may be transferred.
   (B)   Any sale, assignment, or mortgage of a taxicab shall be reported to
the City Clerk.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.10 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF TAXICAB LICENSE.
   A license issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked or
suspended by the Council if the holder thereof has violated any of the
provisions of this chapter, discontinued operations for more than 60
consecutive days, or has violated any city code provisions or any law of the
United States or State of Minnesota, which violation reflects unfavorably on
the fitness of the holder to offer public transportation. The City
Administrator may temporarily suspend a taxicab license based on infractions if
deemed necessary until the City Council has had a reasonable amount of time to
convene and to hear the details of the violations.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.11 TAXICAB DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   It is unlawful for any person to operate a taxicab for hire upon the streets
of the city, and it is also unlawful for any person who owns or controls a
taxicab to permit it to be so driven unless the driver of the taxicab has a
current and valid taxicab driver’s license issued under the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.12 APPLICATION FOR DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   (A)   Application for a taxicab driver’s license shall be filed with the
City Clerk on forms provided which shall contain the following:
      (1)   The names and addresses of two residents of the State of Minnesota
who have known the applicant for a period of not less than two years and who
will vouch for the sobriety, honesty, and general good character of the
applicant.
      (2)   The experience of the applicant in the transportation of passengers
and a listing of all previous employment in transporting persons if any.
      (3)   The educational background of the applicant.
      (4)   A history of employment for the past ten years.
      (5)   Age, date, and place of birth.
      (6)   Home address.
   (B)   At the time of the application, the applicant shall pay the city the
sum prescribed by the city’s fee schedule.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.13 STATE DRIVER’S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   The applicant must have a valid State of Minnesota driver’s license. In no
event shall a license be issued to a person who has held a valid driver’s
license for less than five years. The state driver’s license shall reflect the
applicant’s current home address.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.14 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICANT.
   The Police Department shall conduct an investigation of each applicant, and
a report of such investigation and a copy of the traffic and police record of
the applicant, if any, shall be attached to the application for the
consideration of the Administrator. State computer criminal history checks are
authorized for this purpose.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.15 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   The city, upon consideration of the application and the reports attached
thereto, shall approve or reject the application:
   (A)   If the application is rejected, the applicant may request a hearing
before the Council to offer evidence why the application should be
reconsidered.
   (B)   If the application is approved, the city shall issue a license to the
applicant which shall bear the name, address, age, signature, and photograph of
the applicant.
   (C)   Such license shall be in effect for the remainder of the calendar
year. A license for every calendar year thereafter shall be issued upon payment
of the adopted license fee as listed in the Council approved fees schedule
unless the license for the preceding year has been revoked.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.16 GROUNDS FOR DENIAL OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   (A)   The city shall not issue a taxicab driver’s license to people who have
had their driving privileges suspended, revoked, or canceled within one year of
the date of application.
   (B)   The applicant’s driving record will be reviewed and if it is found
that the person is a habitually reckless or negligent driver or a habitual
violator of the traffic laws, the city may deny issuance of the license or
renewal.
   (C)   Falsification of an application for a taxicab driver’s license
constitutes grounds for denial of the license or renewal.
   (D)   No license shall be issued to an applicant who has been convicted of
any crime or crimes directly related to the occupation of taxicab driver as
defined by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 2, and has not shown competent evidence of
sufficient rehabilitation and present fitness to perform the duties of the
occupation of taxicab driver as defined by M.S. § 364.03, Subd. 3.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.17 DISPLAY OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   Every driver licensed under this chapter shall keep the city-issued license
in full view of all passengers while such driver is operating a taxicab.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.18 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   The Council may suspend or revoke any license it has issued for the
licensee’s failure or refusal to comply with the provisions of this chapter or
other applicable state or federal law. The City Administrator may temporarily
suspend a taxicab license based on infractions if deemed necessary until the
City Council has had a reasonable amount of time to convene and to hear the
details of the violations.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.19 VEHICLE INSPECTION.
   Prior to use and operation of a taxicab licensed pursuant to this chapter,
the taxicab shall be thoroughly examined and inspected at the taxicab owner’s
expense by an inspection service authorized by the Police Department.
Subsequent inspections will be required not less than once every 365 days. The
intent of such inspection is to insure compliance with all applicable safety
requirements of the State of Minnesota and any rules established by this code.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.20 TAXIMETER REQUIRED.
   All taxicabs shall be equipped with taximeters which are visible to
passengers at all times. After sundown the face of the taximeter shall be
illuminated. It shall be operated mechanically by a mechanism of standard
design and construction driven either from the transmission or from one of the
front wheels by a flexible and permanently attached driving mechanism. It shall
be sealed at all points and connections where manipulation would affect correct
reading and recording. Each taximeter shall have thereon a flag to denote when
the vehicle is employed or not employed. It shall be the duty of the driver to
throw the flag into a non-recording position at the termination of each trip.
Any inspector or other officer of the Police Department is hereby authorized to
inspect any meter with or without complaint of any person. Upon discovery of
any inaccuracy therein, the person operating the taxicab shall be notified to
cease operation, and the taxicab shall be kept off the streets until the
taximeter is repaired and in the required working condition.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.21 RATE SCHEDULE AND CARDS.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of a taxicab license, the applicant shall submit the
applicant’s rate schedule to the Council. These rates shall be uniform to all
passengers. Any increases in the rates shall be subject of approval by the
Council.
   (B)   Every taxicab operated under this chapter shall have a rate card
setting forth the authorized rates of fare which shall be displayed in such a
place as to be in view of all passengers.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.22 RECEIPTS.
   The driver of any taxicab shall, upon demand by the passenger, render a
receipt for the amount charged on which shall be the name of the taxicab owner,
the license or motor number, the amount of the meter reading or charges, and
the date of the transaction.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.23 REFUSAL TO PAY LEGAL FARE.
   It is unlawful for any person to refuse to pay the legal fare of any of the
taxicabs licensed by this chapter after having hired the taxicab and it is
unlawful for any person to hire any vehicle herein defined with intent to
defraud the person from whom it is hired of the value of such service.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.24 RECEIPT AND DISCHARGE OF PASSENGERS.
   Drivers of taxicabs shall not receive or discharge passengers in the
roadway, but shall pull up to the right-hand sidewalk as nearly as possible or,
in the absence of a sidewalk, to the extreme right-hand side of the road and
there receive or discharge passengers. On one-way streets passengers may be
received or discharged at either the right- or left-hand sidewalk or on the
side of the roadway in the absence of a sidewalk. In addition, persons may be
received or discharged on private property.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.25 NUMBER OF PASSENGERS.
   No more than two persons in addition to the driver shall be carried in the
front seat of any taxicab, and no more than a total number of seven passengers
excluding the driver shall be carried in any taxicab.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.26 REFUSAL TO CARRY PASSENGERS.
   No driver shall refuse or neglect to convey any orderly person or persons
upon request unless previously engaged or unable or forbidden by the provisions
of this chapter to do so.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.27 MANIFESTS.
   Every driver shall maintain a daily manifest upon which are recorded all
trips made each day, showing the time and place of origin, the destination of
each trip and the amount of fare. All completed manifests shall be returned to
the owner by the driver at the conclusion of the driver’s tour of duty. All
manifests shall be available to the City Clerk and the Police Department. Every
holder of a license shall retain and preserve all drivers’ manifests in a safe
place for at least the calendar year next proceeding the current calendar year.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
§ 123.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine as described in
M.S. § 609.02, Subd. 3, as amended, and/or a jail sentence not to exceed 90
days plus the cost of prosecution. Each day a violation continues to exist
shall constitute a separate violation for the purposes of this section.
(Ord. 2009-007, passed 7-6-2009)
CHAPTER 124: RESIDENTIAL RENTAL LICENSING AND INSPECTIONS
Section
   
124.01   Purpose
   
124.02   Scope
   
124.03   Definitions
   
124.04   License
   
124.05   Inspections
   
124.06   Crime free
   
124.07   Conduct on license premises
   
124.08   Unlawful conduct violations
   
124.09   Criminal statistics
   
124.10   Revocation or suspension of rental license
   
124.11   Maintenance standards
   
124.12   Conflicts
   
124.13   Enforcement
   
124.14   Owner and tenant responsibilities
   
124.15   Notices and orders of Code Official
   
124.16   Administrative citation
   
124.17   Appeal process
   
124.18   No warranty by city
   
124.19   Violations
§ 124.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide minimum standards to promote
public safety, to safeguard life, limb, health, property and public welfare by
regulating and controlling the use and occupancy, construction and maintenance
of all rental dwellings within the city. The provisions contained herein are in
addition to other applicable provisions of the City Code and not in lieu
thereof.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.02 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all rental dwellings,
including rented single-family homes, rented duplexes and dwellings units
within owner-occupied buildings, as well as to rented condominiums, rented
townhouses and leasehold cooperative dwelling units, as those terms are defined
in M.S. § 273.124, Subd. 6, M.S. Chapter 515A, and this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANNUAL RENEWAL DATE. The date each year by when a Rental License must be
renewed according to the schedule of fiscal years for rental licenses and fees
established by the City Council pursuant to the City Code. The City Council may
establish a different ANNUAL RENEWAL DATE for different types of rental
dwellings and/or types of building in which rental dwellings may be located
(e.g., single-family homes, duplexes, townhomes, condominiums, homes with
services, and the like).
   APARTMENT BUILDING. A building in which 4 or more rental dwellings are
located and all such rental dwellings are owned by the same owner.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The City Administrator or his/her designee.
   DWELLING UNIT. A single dwelling space providing independent living
facilities for 1 or more persons, including permanent provisions for sleeping,
eating, cooking, and sanitation.
   OPERATE. To charge a rental charge or other form of compensation for the use
of a rental dwelling.
   OWNER. The person owning or holding title to a rental dwelling as determined
by an examination of record title to the properly at the office of the Scott
County Recorder - Registrar of Titles. If more than 1 person owns or holds
title to an individual rental dwelling, such persons shall collectively be an
owner for purposes of this chapter.
   PERSON. A natural person or legal entity.
   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
Chapter 93 and §
150.100(A) and (E) of the City Code.
   PROPERTY MANAGER. A person authorized to manage and/or operate a Rental
Dwelling on behalf of an owner.
   QUALIFYING RELATIVE. Spouse, parent, child, sibling, grandparent,
grandchild, aunt, uncle, niece or nephew. The relationship may be either by
blood or marriage. The Code Official may require sufficient written proof to
establish whether someone is a QUALIFYING RELATIVE.
   RENEWAL LICENSE. A rental license that is a renewal of an existing Rental
License granted under this chapter, which renewal is granted to the same owner
and for the same rental dwelling as the existing rental license.
   RENTAL DWELLING. A dwelling unit in the city to which a tenant has been
granted the right to use the dwelling unit for residential purposes. A RENTAL
DWELLING includes accessory structures such as garages and storage buildings
and appurtenances such as sidewalks and retaining walls which are on the
premises on which a RENTAL DWELLING is located.
   RENTAL LICENSE. The license required under this Chapter, including any
renewal thereof.
   TENANT. Any person granted temporary use of a rental dwelling, other than
the owner of the dwelling unit and/or qualifying relative(s) of that owner,
pursuant to a lease or other agreement, whether or not reduced to writing.
   UNLAWFUL CONDUCT. Shall have the meaning given such term in City Code, §
124.07.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.04 LICENSE.
   (A)   When required. 
      (1)   No person shall operate a rental dwelling unless the owner thereof
shall have first obtained a rental license for such rental dwelling as provided
for in this chapter, and paid all fees outstanding associated with the rental
license. Any rental license received under this chapter shall commence upon the
date of issuance and, unless revoked or suspended, shall remain valid until the
next applicable annual renewal date, provided no rental license shall extend
for more than a 12 month period. A person who is operating a rental dwelling
after the rental license has expired is operating an unlicensed rental
dwelling.
      (2)   Exceptions. A rental dwelling is not subject to inspections if it
is being rented to a qualifying relative or within a hotel, motel, hospital or
nursing home, assisted living, group home, or independent living facility, or
board and lodging home licensed and inspected by the State of Minnesota for
compliance with state building and/or fire codes.
   (B)   What the rental license covers. There shall be 1 Rental license for
each rental dwelling unit. The city shall have authority to exercise its
licensing powers under this section, including the power to issue, renew, deny,
revoke, and suspend rental licenses, with respect to an entire building or only
a portion of a building.
   (C)   Fees. There shall be inspection fees and an annual license fee for
each rental license. Such fees shall be in the amount established by the City
Council pursuant to City Code. There shall be no proration of rental license
fees for a rental license that extends for less than 12 months. The amount of
the rental license fee shall be based on the number of dwelling units located
in the building(s) that is the subject of a rental license and/or whether the
city or the State of Minnesota is performing the inspections of the dwelling
units. The City Council shall establish a fee for each inspection that is
performed by the city or its designee in accordance with this chapter to
determine the existence of any violations of the City Code at a dwelling unit/
rental dwelling whether: (1) an initial inspection; (2) an inspection and/or
follow-up inspection associated with an alleged or determined violation; (3) an
inspection to restore a rental license that has been revoked or suspended; (4)
a scheduled inspection that occurs every three years; or (5) for any other
reason an inspection may be required under this chapter. The Code Official may
waive a reinspection fee in event of an error or other reasonable cause
determined by the Code Official, including extension of time granted for
compliance. All fees will be charged to the owner, unless the inspection arises
from a complaint provided to the Code Official and the Code Official determines
that the person bringing the complaint did so in bad faith, in which case the
person bringing the bad faith complaint will be liable for the inspection fee.
   (D)   Application. Application for a rental license shall be made in writing
on forms promulgated by The City Administrator or his/her designee and
accompanied by the fee amount. In the case of a license renewal, such
application shall be submitted at least 30 days prior to the expiration date of
the then existing rental license. If the application for a license renewal is
not received by the city at least 30 days prior to the expiration date of the
existing rental license, the applicant shall pay a late fee in the amount
established by the City Council. The Code Official may waive the late fee in
event of an error or other reasonable cause determined by the Code Official.
All applications shall specify the following:
      (1)   Name, address, and telephone number of the owner of the rental
dwelling, including name of the contact person if the owner is a legal entity.
      (2)   Name, address, and telephone number of any property manager
actively managing said rental dwelling.
      (3)   Name and address of the vendee if the Rental Dwelling is owned or
being sold on a contract for deed.
      (4)   Legal address of the rental dwelling.
      (5)   Number of rental dwellings that are the subject of the application
if the application involves a building in which 2 or more rental dwellings are
located and all such rental dwellings are owned by the same owner.
      (6)   Name, address and telephone number of on-site operating manager, if
any.
      (7)   Any other information requested by the Code Official to establish
compliance under this chapter.
      (8)   If the owner identified in the application is a legal entity, the
applicant shall submit, upon request of the Code Official, the name and address
of all partners, shareholders or interest holders.
   (E)   Resident agent required. No rental license shall be issued for a
rental dwelling unless:
      (1)   The owner thereof resides within the counties of Carver, Dakota,
Scott, Rice, Le Sueur, Sibley, Hennepin, Ramsey or Washington; or
      (2)   The owner designates in writing an agent or property manager
residing or located within such counties who is responsible for maintenance and
upkeep of the Rental Dwelling and who is authorized to provide the code
official access to the rental dwelling, to receive service of notice of
violations of the City Code, to receive orders from the Code Official and to
institute remedial action to affect such orders and to accept all service of
process pursuant to law.
   (F)   Posting. All Apartment Buildings shall post the Rental License issued
for that building. The rental license shall be conspicuously posted (in a frame
with a protective covering), in a common area, hallway or lobby. All other
rental dwellings shall have a copy of the rental license on the premises.
   (G)   Applicable laws. Rental licenses shall be subject to the applicable
provisions of the City Code and state law relating to rental dwellings.
   (H)   Transfer of license. No rental license under this chapter is
transferable.
      (1)   If any owner holding a rental license transfers ownership or legal
control of the rental dwelling that is the subject of the rental license.
      (2)   If appoints or changes the agent required under this chapter, and/
or
      (3)   If authorizes a property manager to manage the rental dwelling
(other than a property manager identified in the application for the rental
license), then the owner shall provide the Code Official written notice of such
event within 72 hours thereafter. Such notice shall include, as applicable:
         (a)   The name and address of the person succeeding to the ownership
or control of such rental dwelling;
         (b)   The name and address of the appointed agent; and
         (c)   The name and address of the authorized property manager. Any new
owner shall apply for a new rental license within 45 days after its acquisition
of the rental dwelling, or upon expiration of the rental license, whichever
comes first.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2021-04, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 124.05 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspections required. Each rental license application and rental
license is at all times subject to the Code Official's right to inspect the
affected rental dwelling to determine whether it is in compliance with the City
Code and state law. The Code Official shall determine the schedule of periodic
inspections. Inspections may include all common areas, utility and mechanical
rooms, garages, exterior of structures and exterior property areas.
   (B)   Access for inspection. No rental license shall be issued under this
chapter unless the owner f the rental dwelling agrees to permit inspections,
upon reasonable notice from the Code Official to the owner, to determine
compliance with the City Code and state law. The submission of a rental license
application or the possession of a rental license issued by the city shall
constitute such agreement by the owner identified in the application or on the
rental license. It is the owner's responsibility to arrange for each tenant to
grant the Code Official access to any part of its rental dwelling at reasonable
times for the purpose of effecting inspection to comply with the provisions of
this chapter. If any owner, owner's agent, property manager or tenant fails or
refuses to permit entry to a rental dwelling under its control for an
inspection pursuant to this chapter, the city may pursue any remedy at law or
under the City Code, including, but not limited to, securing an administrative
search warrant for the rental dwelling, issuing an administrative citation,
denying a rental license application, revoking or suspending a rental license,
or denying a renewal license. Without limiting the foregoing, should an owner,
owner's agent, or property manager fail to keep a scheduled inspection without
reasonable cause or refuse to permit entry to the rental dwelling, a
reinspection fee may be charged for each occurrence.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.06 CRIME FREE.
   (A)   Background checks. An owner or property manager shall perform a
criminal record check as that phrase is defined in §
32.21 of the City Code prior to entering into a lease, written or verbal, with
a tenant.
   (B)   Crime free/drug free lease addendum requirements.
      (1)   Subject to any preemptory state and federal laws, all signed Tenant
leases, including any lease renewal, for a rental dwelling executed after
January 1, 2018, shall contain the following crime free addendum language or
equivalent language:
         (a)   Tenant, any members of the Tenant’s household or a guest or
other person affiliated with the tenant shall not engage in illegal activity,
including drug-related illegal activity, on or near the rental dwelling.
         (b)   Tenant, any member of the Tenant’s household or a guest or other
person affiliated with the Tenant shall not engage in any act intended to
facilitate illegal activity, including drug-related illegal activity, on or
near the rental dwelling.
         (c)   Tenant, any member of the tenant’s household or a guest or other
person affiliated with the tenant shall not permit the rental dwelling to be
used for, or to facilitate illegal activity, including drug-related illegal
activity, regardless of whether the individual engaging in such activity is a
member of the household or a guest.
         (d)   Tenant, any member of the tenant’s household or a guest, or
other person affiliated with the tenant shall not engage in the unlawful
manufacturing, selling, using, storing, keeping, or giving of a controlled
substance (as defined in § 102 of the Controlled Substance Act [21 U.S.C. 802])
on or near the rental dwelling.
         (e)   Violation of the above provisions shall be a material and
irreparable violation of the lease and good cause for immediate termination of
tenancy.
         (f)   The term “drug related illegal activity” means the illegal
manufacture, sale, distribution, use, or possession with intent to manufacture,
sell, distribute, or use of a controlled substance (as defined in § 102 of the
Controlled Substance Act [21 U.S.C. 802]).
      (2)   Non-exclusive remedies. The crime free/drug free addendum is in
addition to all other terms of the lease and do not limit or replace any other
provisions.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2021-04, passed 3-15-2021)
§ 124.07 CONDUCT ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   For purposes of this chapter, "unlawful conduct" shall be determined by the
Police Department and shall be deemed to have occurred where the Police
Department has probable cause to issue a citation to tenants and/or their
guests for violations of any state statute or City Code, including but not
limited to:
   (A)   Minnesota Statutes §§ 609.75 through 609.76, and City Code § 10.66,
which prohibit gambling;
   (B)   Minnesota Statutes §§ 609.321 through 609.324, which prohibits
prostitution and acts relating thereto;
   (C)   Minnesota Statutes §§ 152.01 through 152.025, and § 152.027,
Subdivisions 1. and 2., which prohibit the unlawful sale or possession of
controlled substances;
   (D)   Minnesota Statutes § 340A.401, which prohibits the unlawful sale of
alcoholic beverages;
   (E)   Minnesota Statutes § 340A.503, which prohibits the underage use of
alcoholic beverages;
   (F)   Minnesota Statutes § 609.72 and City Code §§ 10.60, 10.62, and 10.85
which prohibits disorderly conduct when the violation disturbs the peace and
quiet of the occupants of at least 1 unit on the licensed premises or other
premises, other than the unit occupied by the person(s) committing the
violation; and
   (G)   Minnesota Statutes §§ 978.021, 978.045, 609.66 through 609.67 and
624.712 through 624.716 which prohibit the unlawful possession, transportation,
sale or use of a weapon.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.08 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unlawful conduct at a rental dwelling shall be determined and handled
by the Police Department.
   (B)   A determination that unlawful conduct has occurred at a rental
dwelling shall be made upon the Police Department determining that it has
probable cause to support such a determination and shall be subject to
Minnesota Statutes § 504B.205, subd. 3. It shall not be necessary that criminal
charges be brought to support a determination of unlawful conduct, nor shall
the fact of dismissal or acquittal of such a criminal charge operate as a bar
to adverse license action under this chapter based on such unlawful conduct.
   (C)   Upon notification from the Police Department to the Code Official that
there have been 3 or more incidents of unlawful conduct at a rental dwelling
with a 36 month period, the Code Official shall send a written warning to the
owner of such rental dwelling, notifying the owner that:
      (1)   If there is an additional event of unlawful conduct at the
identified rental dwelling within the 12 month period following the date of the
warning, such unlawful conduct shall constitute a violation of this chapter and
shall entitle the city to the remedies set forth herein, including the
revocation, suspension, non-renewal or denial of a rental license;
      (2)   Within 10 days after the Code Official's issuance of the written
warning, the owner shall submit to the Code Official and the Police Department,
a written management plan detailing the actions taken and proposed to be taken
by the owner to prevent further unlawful conduct at the identified rental
dwelling;
      (3)   Within 20 days after the acceptance of the management plan by the
Code Official and the Police Department, the owner shall implement all the
provisions of the management plan; and
      (4)   If the owner fails to submit or implement a management plan as
required, such failure shall constitute a violation of this section and shall
entitle the city to the remedies set forth herein, including the revocation,
suspension, non-renewal or denial of a rental license.
   (D)   If the owner fails to provide or implement a management plan within
the period required, or there is an event of unlawful conduct at the rental
dwelling within 12 months after the written warning, such failure shall be a
violation under this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.09 CRIMINAL STATISTICS.
   The Police Department shall maintain, subject to the retention policy,
statistics pertaining to the number of citations/criminal complaints for crimes
committed at rental dwellings, and the total number of citations/criminal
complaints issued by the Police Department. The Chief of Police shall update
the City Council on an annual basis regarding the number of citations/criminal
complaints for crimes committed at rental dwellings versus the total number of
citations/criminal complaints issued by the Police Department during the same
time period.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.10 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF RENTAL LICENSE.
   (A)   In addition to its powers under City Code, the City Council may
revoke, suspend, deny or decline to renew any rental license applied for or
issued under this chapter based on any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   The rental license was procured by misrepresentation of material
facts with regard to a rental dwelling or the ownership of a rental dwelling.
      (2)   The applicant, or one acting in the applicant's behalf, made oral
or written misstatements accompanying the application.
      (3)   The applicant has failed to comply with any condition set forth in
any other permits/licenses granted by the city.
      (4)   The activities of the owner and/or tenant, or the conditions of the
rental dwelling or the building of which such rental dwelling is a part, or any
portion thereof, create or have created a danger to the public health, safety
or welfare.
      (5)   Failure to correct violations of the City's Property Maintenance
Code in the time period specified in the notice of violation and correction.
      (6)   Failure to continuously comply with any condition required of the
applicant for the approval or maintenance of the rental license.
      (7)   Failure to include the crime free/drug free lease addendum in all
leases as required by §
124.06(B).
      (8)   A violation under §
124.08(D).
      (9)   Any other violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Prior to any revocation, suspension, denial or declination by the City
Council under this section, the Code Official shall send written notice to the
owner specifying the ordinance or law violations with which they are accused
and the affected rental dwelling. The notice shall also specify the date for
the hearing before the City Council, which shall not be less than 10 days from
the date of the notice. At the hearing before the City Council, the owner or
their representative may submit and present evidence on their behalf. After the
hearing, the City Council may revoke, suspend, deny or decline to renew the
rental license.
   (C)   If the affected rental dwelling is within a building containing more
than 1 rental dwelling owned by the same owner, the revocation, suspension,
denial or declination may apply to 1 or more rental dwellings within that
building, at the discretion of the City Council.
   (D)   If a rental license is suspended, revoked or not renewed pursuant to
this chapter, then until such time as a valid rental license has been restored
it shall be unlawful for the owner to thereafter permit any occupancy of the
formerly licensed rental dwelling by a tenant. The affected rental dwelling
shall be vacated by all tenants, giving tenants a reasonable time to arrange
new housing and to move their possessions.
   (E)   Rental licenses may be suspended for up to 120 days and may, after the
period of suspension, be reinstated subject to compliance with this section and
any conditions imposed by the city at the time of suspension. Rental licenses
that are revoked shall not be reinstated for a period of up to 120 days and
until the owner has applied for and secured a new rental license and complied
with all conditions imposed at the time of revocation and all applicable
sections of the City Code.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.11 MAINTENANCE STANDARDS.
   Every rental dwelling shall be maintained in accordance with the minimum
standards set forth in state law and the City Code, in addition to any other
permits issued by the city or by the state.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.12 CONFLICTS.
   Where there are conflicts between this chapter and any other provision of
the City Code or other state or federal laws, regulations, or rules, the more
restrictive shall govern.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Code Official is hereby authorized and directed to enforce all of the
provisions of this chapter and all the provisions of the city's Property
Maintenance Code with respect to rental dwellings.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.14 OWNER AND TENANT RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Owner.
      (1)   Owners of rental dwellings shall construct and maintain said
dwellings in accordance with the requirements of the City Code.
      (2)   No person shall lease to another for occupancy any rental dwelling
which does not comply with the requirements of the City Code.
   (B)   Tenant.
      (1)   Each tenant of a rental dwelling shall keep in a clean and sanitary
condition that part of the dwelling and related premises which that person
occupies or controls.
      (2)   No person shall occupy any rental dwelling which does not comply
with the requirements of the City Code.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.15 NOTICES AND ORDERS OF CODE OFFICIAL.
   (A)   Notice. Whenever the Code Official determines that a rental dwelling,
a building of which such Dwelling is a part, or any portion thereof violates
any section of this chapter or the Property Maintenance Code or that there are
reasonable grounds to believe that a violation exists, notice shall be given to
the owner (and property manager, if any) and Tenant in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   Include a description of the real estate sufficient for
identification.
      (3)   Include a statement of the violation or violations and why the
notice is being issued.
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time to make the
repairs and improvements required to bring the rental dwelling or structure
into compliance with the provisions of this chapter and/or the Property
Maintenance Code.
      (5)   Inform the owner (and property manager, if any) and Tenant of the
right to appeal pursuant to City Code, §
124.16.
   (B)   Emergency orders. Whenever the Code Official finds that an emergency
exists in relation to the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter which
requires immediate action to protect the health, safety or welfare of occupants
of any rental dwelling, a building of which such dwelling unit is a part, or
any portion thereof, the Code Official may issue an order reciting the
existence of such emergency and requiring that such action be taken by the
owner and/or tenant as deemed necessary to meet the emergency, notwithstanding
any other provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.16 ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.
   The Code Official may issue 1 or more administrative citations under City
Code §
10.98, to enforce any provision in this chapter and, in addition to imposing
monetary fines, such citations may require corrective actions.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.17 APPEAL PROCESS.
   Any person directly affected by an administrative citation, decision or
order issued by the Code Official pursuant to this chapter shall have the right
to appeal to a hearing officer in an administrative hearing as provided for in
City Code §
10.98. The City Council may establish by ordinance a fee that must accompany
any such appeal under this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.18 NO WARRANTY BY CITY.
   By enacting and undertaking to enforce this Chapter of the City Code,
neither the city nor its Council, agents, or employees warrant or guaranty the
safety, fitness or suitability of any rental dwelling or dwelling unit in the
city and any representation to the contrary by any person is a misdemeanor.
Owners, their agents, property managers and tenants should take whatever steps
they deem appropriate to protect their interests, health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018)
§ 124.19 VIOLATIONS.
   Every person who violates a subdivision, paragraph or provision of this
chapter when such person performs an act thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful or fails to act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared
unlawful shall be liable for administrative penalties established from time to
time by resolution of the City Council pursuant to City Code §
10.98. Every person who violates this chapter after having been assessed
administrative penalties pursuant to City Code §§
124.19(A) and
10.98, on two or more prior occurrences without successful appeal, whether or
not the person paid the prior administrative penalties, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. The penalty which may be imposed for any crime which is a
misdemeanor under the City Code shall be as listed in M.S. § 609.02, Subd. 3,
plus prosecution costs.
(Ord. 2017-07, passed 1-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2021-04, passed 3-15-2021)
CHAPTER 125: MOBILE FOOD UNITS
Section
   
125.01   Purpose
   
125.02   Definitions
   
125.03   License applications
   
125.04   Condition of license applications
   
125.05   Suspension or revocation of a license
 
   
125.99   Penalty
§ 125.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to require an establishment preparing and serving
food from a self-contained readily moveable vehicle to obtain a license from
the city and to regulate the conditions from which the licensed establishment
operates within the city for the promotion of business within the city and for
the protection of customers and the general public.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 125.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GRAY WATER.
      (1)   Waste water created through the operations of a mobile food unit;
or
      (2)   As defined in Minn. Rules 7080.1100, subd. 37, as it may be amended
from time to time.
   MOBILE FOOD UNIT.
      (1)   A self-contained food service operation, located in a readily
movable motorized wheeled or towed vehicle that is readily movable without
disassembling and that is used to store, prepare, display or serve food
intended for individual portion service; or
      (2)   A mobile food unit as defined in M.S. § 157.15, subd. 9, as it may
be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 125.03 LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Annual license. Each applicant must apply for an annual license. An
annual license allows mobile food unit operations in the city for each calendar
year.
   (B)   License fees. There is a fee for an annual license. The fee shall be
established by the city fee schedule and passed by resolution of the City
Council.
   (C)   Mobile food unit. It is unlawful for any person to operate a mobile
food unit in the city without first obtaining a license from the city. An
application for a license shall be filed, along with all required fees, with
the City Clerk. The applicant must be the owner of the mobile food unit. The
application shall be made on a form supplied by the city and shall contain the
following information required for a transient merchant license.
      (1)   A certificate of insurance by an insurance company authorized to do
business in the state, evidencing the following forms of insurance:
         (a)   Commercial general liability insurance, with a limit of not less
than $1,000,000 each occurrence. If such insurance contains an annual aggregate
limit, the annual aggregate limit shall be not less than $2,000,000;
         (b)   Automobile liability insurance with a limit of not less than
$2,000,000 combined single limit. The insurance shall cover liability arising
out of any auto, including owned, hired, and non-owned vehicles;
         (c)   Food products liability insurance, with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000 each occurrence;
         (d)   Public liability insurance, with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000 each occurrence;
         (e)   Property damage insurance, with a limit of not less than
$1,000,000 each occurrence;
         (f)   Workers compensation insurance (statutory limits) or evidence of
exemption from state law; and
         (g)   The city shall be endorsed as an additional insured on the
certificate of insurance and the umbrella/excess insurance if the applicant
intends to operate its mobile food unit on public property;
      (2)   The certificate of insurance shall state that the insurance has
been endorsed to require that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or a material modification of a coverage term;
      (3)   Written consent of each private property owner from which mobile
food unit sales will be conducted;
      (4)   The city shall conduct a background check on the applicant and all
employees of the mobile food unit;
      (5)   A copy of each related license or permit issued by Scott County and
M.S. Chapters 157 or 28A as required to operate a mobile food unit; and
      (6)   A copy of the applicant's state sales tax ID number.
   (D)   Existing licensed restaurants with brick and mortar physical sites
within city limits shall be exempt from licensing requirements for special
events.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 125.04 CONDITION OF LICENSE APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Locations. A mobile food unit may only operate in the locations set
forth in this division (A). A mobile food unit may operate in a private
commercial or industrial parking lot and on private residential property, with
the written consent of the private property owner. When operations occur on
private residential property, mobile food unit sales may only be for catering
purposes (such as a private graduation party or wedding) and not open for sales
to the general public. A mobile food unit may only operate along a public
street when the mobile unit is parked in a dedicated parking stall. No food
unit shall be parked within 100 feet of a brick and mortar operational
restaurant in the city, unless it is owned and operated by that restaurant.
   (B)   Performance standards. A mobile food unit licensee is subject to the
following performance standards:
      (1)   A mobile food unit with an annual license may not operate on the
same property more than 21 days annually (M.S. § 157.15, subd. 9, as it may be
amended from time to time);
      (2)   No mobile food unit sales between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
      (3)   A mobile food unit must dispose of its gray water daily. Gray water
may not be drained into city storm water drains;
      (4)   An out of service mobile food unit may be stored only in an area
zoned I-1 and I-2 and where outside storage is allowed by conditional use
permit;
      (5)   The mobile food unit may have a maximum bumper to bumper length of
no more than 30 feet. Mobile food units shall not encroach onto city sidewalks
or obstruct pedestrian access;
      (6)   A mobile food unit is not required to obtain a sign permit from the
city. However, no additional signage is permitted beyond that which is on the
mobile food unit unless it meets the following requirements:
         (a)   One single sandwich board style sign is permitted per mobile
food unit;
         (b)   The maximum sign size is 8 square feet;
         (c)   The sign must be placed on the ground and within 10 feet of the
mobile food unit; and
         (d)   The sign cannot project from the mobile food unit or be mounted
to the roof of the mobile food unit.
      (7)   A mobile food unit must have at least one 2A:20BC fire extinguisher
in the mobile food unit. If deep frying occurs in the mobile food unit, then
the mobile food unit must have at least 1 Class K fire extinguisher in the
mobile food unit. Each fire extinguisher must display an inspection tag dated
within the past 12 months;
      (8)   A licensee must comply with all laws, ordinances, regulations,
parking zones and posted signs;
      (9)   A mobile food unit must provide an independent power supply that is
screened from public view; and
      (10)   Propane tanks must be attached or secured to the mobile food unit
and must be adequately ventilated.
   (C)   License. A mobile food unit license is non-transferable. Proof of
license shall be displayed at all times in the mobile food unit. A mobile food
unit license is an annual license.
   (D)   Practices prohibited. It is unlawful for any person engaged in the
business of a mobile food unit operation to do the following:
      (1)   Call attention to that licensee's business by crying out, blowing a
horn, ringing a bell or by any loud or unusual noise, or by use of any
amplifying device;
      (2)   Fail to display proof of license and produce valid identification
when requested;
      (3)   Remain on the property of another when asked to leave;
      (4)   Claim endorsements by the city based on license; or
      (5)   Conduct business in any manner as to create a threat to the health,
safety and welfare of a specific individual or the general public.
      (6)   For-profit mobile food units shall be prohibited from operating
within city limits during city festivals and events without written permission
from the city festival or event coordinator.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-6-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-02, passed 7-17-2017)
§ 125.05 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF A LICENSE.
   A license issued pursuant to this section may be suspended by a city
official if the licensee has violated this chapter or is otherwise conducting
business in such a manner as to constitute a breach of peace, fraudulent
conduct, or any other conduct that is prohibited by local, state or federal
laws or regulations. Falsification of information required for a license is
also grounds for denial, suspension or revocation of a license. The license
shall be automatically revoked if the licensee does not file an appeal pursuant
to this section. When taking action on any license issued under this chapter,
the city official shall provide the licensee with verbal or written notice of
the violation. The notice shall inform the licensee of its right to be heard
before the City Council. The notice shall also inform the licensee that the
license shall be automatically revoked if no appeal is filed within 21 days of
the date of the notice by the city official. Verbal notice shall be confirmed
within 5 days by a mailed written notice to the licensee. The City Council
shall not conduct a hearing on a suspension or revocation unless a request is
made by the licensee in writing. If a request for a hearing is made, the City
Council shall conduct the hearing at the next available City Council meeting.
No City Council resolution or other notice calling for a hearing shall be
required.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-6-2016)
§ 125.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be subject to a fine as described in
M.S. § 609.02, subd. 3, as amended, and/or a jail sentence not to exceed 90
days plus the cost of prosecution. Each day a violation continues to exist
shall constitute a separate violation for the purposes of this section.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 6-6-2016)
CHAPTER 126: SALE OF THC AND CANNABIS PRODUCTS
Section
   
126.01   Purpose
   
126.02   Definitions
   
126.03   Registration
   
126.04   Responsibility
   
126.05   Compliance checks
   
126.06   Signage and age verification
   
126.07   Registration suspension and cancellation
   
126.08   Temporary cannabis event
§ 126.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter requires any retail business that sells a cannabinoid or
cannabis product sold for human or animal consumption to be registered with the
city for the protection of customers and the general public, and for compliance
with M.S. § 342.22.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 8-14-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-08, passed - -)
§ 126.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Terms used in this chapter are as defined in M.S. § 342.01.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 126.03 REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Number of retailers. The city limits the number of cannabis reatil
businesses, or cannabis businesses with retail endorsement, to 2 total
registrations.
   (B)   Annual registration. Before making any retail sales to customers or
patients, any state-licensed retail business selling a cannabinoid or cannabis
product within the city shall be registered with the city.
   (C)   Renewal of registration. The city shall renew an annual registration
of a state-licensed cannabis retail business at the same time the OCM renews
the cannabis retail business’ license.
      (1)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business shall apply to renew
registration on a form established by the city.
      (2)   The application for renewal of a retail registration shall include,
but is not limited to, the items under §
126.03(C).
   (D)   Application. A registration form provided by the city shall be
completed by the business seeking to sell cannabinoid or cannabis products. The
form shall contain the full name of the property owner and applicant, the
applicant's residential and business addresses, emails, and telephone numbers,
the name of the business, a copy of a valid state license or written notice of
Office of Cannabis Management (hereinafter “OCM”) approval, and any additional
information the city deems necessary, or which is required under state law.
      (1)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application shall not be
approved or renewed if the applicant is unable to meet the requirements of city
code and M.S. Ch. 342.
      (2)   A state-licensed cannabis retail business application that meets
the requirements of city code and M.S. Ch. 342 shall be approved.
   (E)   Preliminary compliance check.
      (1)   Before issuing a registration, the city may conduct a preliminary
compliance check to ensure that the business is in compliance with local
ordinances.
      (2)   Pursuant to M.S. Ch. 342, within 30 days of receiving a copy of a
state license application from the OCM, the city shall certify on a form
provided by the OCM whether a proposed cannabis retail business complies with
local zoning ordinances and, if applicable, whether the proposed business
complies with the State Fire Code and Building Code.
   (F)   Term. The initial registration is valid for a period of 1 year.
Subsequently, the business must register on an annual basis.
   (G)   Fees. A cannabinoid or cannabis business registration shall not be
valid until the appropriate registration fee is paid in full. A registration
fee, as established in the city’s fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants
depending on the type of retail business license applied for.
      (1)   An initial retail registration fee shall not exceed $500 or half
the amount of an initial state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever is
less.
      (2)   Any renewal retail registration fee shall be charged at the time of
renewal and each subsequent renewal thereafter.
      (3)   A renewal retail registration fee shall not exceed $1,000 or half
the amount of a renewal state license fee under M.S. § 342.11, whichever is
less.
      (4)   A medical combination business operating an adult-use retail
location may only be charged a single registration fee, not to exceed the
lesser of a single retail registration fee, defined under this section, of the
adult-use retail business.
   (H)   Transfers. The business registration is valid only for the premises
that was registered and only for the person who applied for the registration.
   (I)   Location change. If a state-licensed cannabis retail business seeks to
move to a new location still within the legal boundaries of the city, it shall
notify the city of the proposed location change and submit necessary
information to meet all criteria in city code and M.S. Ch. 342.
   (J)   Penalty. Any state-licensed business selling cannabinoid products
without a valid retail registration is subject to a civil penalty of up to
$2,000 for each violation.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 8-14-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-08, passed - -)
§ 126.04 RESPONSIBILITY.
   The registrant is responsible for the actions of their employees in regard
to the sale of cannabinoid products on the registered premises. The sale of any
such item by an employee is considered a sale by the registrant and shall
subject the registrant to the penalties set forth in this chapter, as well as
any other applicable penalties under this code and state and federal laws.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 126.05 COMPLIANCE CHECKS.
   The city shall undertake compliance checks to assess compliance with age
verification requirements, as required under M.S. § 342.22, Subd. 4(b), M.S. §
342.24 and this chapter. Compliance checks shall be at minimum once per
calendar year of every cannabis business. All registered premises shall be open
to inspection by the police or other authorized city official during regular
business hours. Age verification compliance checks shall involve persons at
least 17 years of age but under the age of 21 who, with the prior written
consent of a parent or guardian if the person is under the age of 18, attempt
to purchase adult-use cannabis flower, adult-use cannabis products, lower-
potency hemp edibles, or hemp-derived consumer products under the direct
supervision of a law enforcement officer or an employee of the local unit of
government.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 8-14-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-08, passed - -)
§ 126.06 SIGNAGE AND AGE VERIFICATION.
   (A)   Signage. Every business selling cannabinoid products shall display a
sign in plain view to the public providing notice that selling any such
products to any person under the age of 21 is illegal and subject to penalties.
The notice shall be placed in a conspicuous location in the establishment and
shall be readily visible to any person purchasing or seeking to purchase such
products. The sign must provide notice that all persons responsible for selling
such products must verify, by means of photographic identification containing
the bearer's date of birth, the age of any person under 30 years of age.
   (B)   Verification. The registrant shall verify, by means of photographic
identification containing the bearer's date of birth, that the purchaser or
person attempting to make the purchase is at least 21 years of age.
Verification is not required if the person is 30 years of age or older. It is
not a defense of a violation of this chapter that the person appeared to be 30
years of age or older.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 8-14-2023)
§ 126.07 REGISTRATION SUSPENSION AND CANCELLATION.
   (A)   Suspension. If the city determines that a registered business is not
operating in compliance with the requirements of this chapter or that the
operation of the business poses an immediate threat to the health or safety of
the public, the city may suspend the retail registration. The city shall
immediately notify the cannabis retail business in writing the grounds for
suspension.
   (B)   Notification to OCM. The city will notify the state Office of Cannabis
Management of the suspension, including a description of the grounds of the
suspension. OCM will provide the city and cannabis business retailer a response
to the complaint within 7 calendar days and perform any necessary inspections
within 30 calendar days.
   (C)   Duration. The suspension must be for up to 30 days unless the Office
of Cannabis Management suspends operating privileges for a longer period or
revokes the state license. The business may not make sales to customers if
their registration is suspended.
   (D)   Reinstatement. The city may reinstate the retail registration if it
determines that any violation has been cured and must reinstate the
registration of the Office of Cannabis Management orders reinstatement.
(Ord. 2023-02, passed 8-14-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-08, passed - -)
§ 126.08 TEMPORARY CANNABIS EVENT.
   (A)   License or permit required for temporary cannabis events.
      (1)   License required. A license or permit is required to be issued and
approved by the city prior to holding a temporary cannabis event.
      (2)   Registration and application procedure. A registration fee, as
established in the city’s fee schedule, shall be charged to applicants for
temporary cannabis events.
      (3)   Application submittal and review. The city shall require an
application for temporary cannabis events.
         (a)   An applicant for a retail registration shall fill out an
application form, as provided by the city. Said form shall include, but is not
limited to:
            1.   Full name of the property owner and applicant;
            2.   Address, email address, and telephone number of the applicant;
            3.   A site plan including the location of the event, the set-up,
location of parking, dates of the proposed event, hours of operation, lighting,
signage, and any other information deemed necessary by the city.
         (b)   The applicant shall include with the form:
            1.   The application fee as required in the city fee schedule;
            2.   A copy of the OCM cannabis event license application,
submitted pursuant to M.S. § 342.39, Subd. 2.
   (B)   The application for a license for a temporary cannabis event shall
meet the following standards:
      (1)   Must be licensed by the State of Minnesota as a cannabis event
organizer and in compliance with the standards set by the Office of Cannabis
Management.
      (2)   Temporary cannabis events may only be held at approved cannabis
retail and low-potency hemp retail locations.
      (3)   Temporary cannabis events must last no more than 4 consecutive
calendar days.
      (4)   No more than 4 temporary cannabis events may be conducted at a
single location in a calendar year.
      (5)   Hours of operation for a temporary cannabis event are limited to 9:
00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
   (C)   A request for a temporary cannabis event that meets the requirements
of this section shall be approved.
   (D)   A request for a temporary cannabis event that does not meet the
requirements of this section shall be denied. The city shall notify the
applicant of the standards not met and basis for denial.
(Ord. 2024-08, passed - -)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Dangerous weapons and articles
   
130.03   Dangerous trespasses and the like
   
130.04   Curfew
   
130.05   Social host
   
130.06   Use of cannabis in public
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   It is unlawful for any person, in a public or private place, knowing, or
having reasonable grounds to know, that it will, or will tend to, alarm, anger
or disturb others or provoke any assault or breach of the peace, to do the
following:
   (A)   Engage in brawling or fighting;
   (B)   Disturb an assembly or meeting, not unlawful in its character;
   (C)   Engage in offensive, obscene or abusive language or in boisterous and
noisy conduct tending reasonably to arouse alarm, anger or resentment in
others;
   (D)   Willfully and lewdly expose his or her person or the private parts
thereof, or procure another to so expose himself or herself; and any open or
gross lewdness or lascivious behavior, or any act of public indecency;
   (E)   Whether or not posted with signs so prohibiting, voluntarily enter the
waters of any river or public swimming pool at any time when the waters are not
properly supervised by trained life-saving personnel in attendance for that
purpose, or enter the waters without being garbed in a bathing suit sufficient
to cover his or her person and equal to the standards generally adopted and
accepted by the public;
   (F)   Urinate or defecate in a place other than:
      (1)   If on public property then in a plumbing fixture provided for that
purpose;
      (2)   If on the private property of another then in a plumbing fixture
provided for that purpose; or
      (3)   If on private property not owned or controlled by another, then
within a building.
   (G)   Cause the making or production of an unnecessary noise by shouting or
by any other means or mechanism including the blowing of any automobile or
other vehicle horn;
   (H)   Use a sound amplifier upon streets and public property without prior
written permission from the city;
   (I)   Use a flash or spotlight in a manner so as to annoy or endanger
others;
   (J)   Cause defacement, destruction or other damage to any premises or any
property located thereon;
   (K)   Strew, scatter, litter, throw, dispose of or deposit any refuse,
garbage, or rubbish unto any premises except into receptacles provided for such
purpose;
   (L)   Enter any motor vehicle of another without the consent of the owner or
operator; or
   (M)   Fail or refuse to vacate or leave any premises after being requested
or ordered, whether orally or in writing, to do so, by the owner, or person in
charge thereof, or by any law enforcement agent or official; provided, however,
that this provision shall not apply to any person who is owner or tenant of the
premises involved nor to any law enforcement or other government official who
may be present thereon at that time as part of his or her official duty, nor
shall it include the spouse, children, employee or tenant of the owner or
occupier.
(Prior Code, § 10.31) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND ARTICLES.
   (A)   Acts prohibited. It is unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Recklessly handle or use a gun or other dangerous weapon or
explosive so as to endanger the safety of another;
      (2)   Intentionally point a gun of any kind, capable of injuring or
killing a human being and whether loaded or unloaded, at or toward another;
      (3)   Manufacture or sell for any unlawful purpose any weapon known as a
slung-shot or sand club;
      (4)   Manufacture, transfer or possess metal knuckles or a switch blade
knife opening automatically;
      (5)   Possess any other dangerous article or substance for the purpose of
being used unlawfully as a weapon against another;
      (6)   Sell or have in his or her possession any device designed to
silence or muffle the discharge of a firearm;
      (7)   Permit, as a parent or guardian, any child under 14 years of age to
handle or use, outside of the parent’s or guardian’s presence, a firearm or air
gun of any kind, or any ammunition or explosive;
      (8)   Furnish a minor under 18 years of age with a firearm, air gun,
ammunition, or explosive without the written consent of his or her parent or
guardian or of the Police Department; or
      (9)   Possess, sell, transfer, or have in possession for sale or
transfer, any weapon commonly known as a throwing star, nun chuck, sharp stud
or splat gun. For the purposes of this division:
         NUN CHUCK. A pair of wood sticks or metallic rods separated by chain
links attached to 1 end of each stick or rod.
         SHARP STUD. A circular piece of metal attached to a wrist band, glove,
belt or other material which protrudes 1/4 inch, or more, from the material to
which it is attached, and with the protruding portion pyramidal in shape, sharp
or pointed.
         SPLAT GUN. A weapon which, by means of compressed air or gas, emits a
projectile containing paint or other substance.
         THROWING STAR. A circular metallic device with any number of points
projecting from the edge.
   (B)   Exception. Nothing in division (A) above shall prohibit the possession
of the articles therein mentioned if the purpose of such possession is for
public exhibition by museums or collectors of art.
   (C)   Discharge of firearms and explosives. It is unlawful for any person to
fire or discharge any cannon, gun, pistol or other firearm, firecracker, sky
rocket or other fireworks, air gun, air rifle, or other similar device commonly
referred to as a B-B gun.
      (1)   FIREARMS shall include cannons, guns, pistols, air guns, air
rifles, bows and arrows, cross bows, any device which is designed to discharge
a projectile capable of causing death or great bodily harm. FIREARM includes
any other similar devices commonly referred to as a B-B gun.
      (2)   Except as permitted in division (D) below, it is unlawful to
discharge a firearm as herein defined, anywhere within the city limits.
      (3)   Except as permitted in division (D) below, it is unlawful to
discharge firecrackers, sky rockets, or any other fireworks within the city
limits.
   (D)   Exception. Nothing in division (C) above shall apply to a display of
fireworks by an organization or group of organizations authorized in writing by
the Council, or to a peace officer in the discharge of his or her duty, or to a
person in the lawful defense of his or her person or family. This section shall
not apply to the discharge of firearms in a range authorized in writing by the
Council, pursuant to division (G) below. Division (C) above shall not apply to
discharge of a bow and arrow within the city limits in a physical education
program in a school supervised by a member of school, its faculty, a community-
wide supervised class or event specifically authorized by the Chief of Police,
or a bow and arrow range authorized by the Council.
   (E)   Possession and sale of fireworks. It is unlawful for any person to
sell, possess or have in possession for the purpose of sale, except as allowed
in division (D) above, any firecrackers, sky rockets or other fireworks.
   (F)   Exposure of unused container. It is unlawful for any person, being the
owner or in possession or control thereof, to permit an unused refrigerator,
ice box, or other container, sufficiently large to retain any child and with
doors which fasten automatically when closed, to expose the same accessible to
children, without removing the doors, lids, hinges or latches.
   (G)   Use of bow and arrow. It is unlawful for any person to shoot a bow and
arrow or other similar device within the city limits except in a physical
education program in a school supervised by a member of its faculty, a
community-wide supervised class or event specifically authorized by the Chief
of Police, or a bow and arrow range authorized by the Council.
   (H)   Authorized indoor firearms ranges. The city may issue an indoor
firearms range permit under the following conditions.
      (1)   Any entity, public or private, may apply for an indoor firearms
range permit on a form provided by the city;
      (2)   At a minimum, the applicant shall provide the following with the
completed application form:
         (a)   Evidence of insurance wherein the range is covered with a
minimum of $1,000,000 liability coverage;
         (b)   Provide language within the insurance policy naming the City of
Jordan as an additional insured party; and
         (c)   Evidence of inspection and certification that the range facility
has been constructed to withstand the impact of any projectile fired from a
weapon approved to be discharged within the facility walls, without any
facility egress.
      (3)   (a)   Range area is secure in that no unauthorized persons would be
allowed to enter the down-range area, either accidentally or intentionally;
         (b)   Specification as to which type of weapons would be approved for
that particular range;
         (c)   Specification as to the hours of operation;
         (d)   Assurance that no minor would be allowed to be present on the
range without adult supervision;
         (e)   Assurance that no person present on the range would be, or have
been consuming alcoholic beverages;
         (f)   Provisions for immediate suspension of the range permit by the
Police Chief or his or her designee for any violation of conditions placed on
the permit by the City Council; and
         (g)   Provision for notification to building/facility owner of use as
a range.
      (4)   Failure to comply with items listed in (H)(3) above shall be cause
for City Council to suspend or revoke the permit.
(Prior Code, § 10.05) (Am. Ord. 16, Second Series, passed 2-16-1999) Penalty,
see §
130.99
§ 130.03 DANGEROUS TRESPASSES AND THE LIKE.
   It is unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Smoke in the presence of explosives, or flammable materials, or in a
building, or area, in which “No Smoking” notices have been prominently posted;
   (B)   Interfere with or obstruct the prevention or extinguishing of any
fire, or disobey the lawful orders of a law enforcement officer or firefighter
present at the fire;
   (C)   Show a false light or signal or interfere with any light, signal or
sign controlling or guiding traffic upon a highway, railway track, or navigable
water;
   (D)   Place an obstruction upon a railroad track;
   (E)   Expose another or his or her property to an obnoxious or harmful gas,
fluid or substance, with
intent to injure, molest or coerce; or
   (F)   Trespass or permit animals under his or her control to trespass upon a
railroad track;
   (G)   Permit domestic animals or fowls under his or her control to go upon
the lands of another within the city;
   (H)   Interfere unlawfully with any monument, sign or pointer erected or
marked to designate a point of a boundary, line or a political subdivision, or
a tract of land;
   (I)   Trespass upon the premises of another, and without claim of right
refuse to depart therefrom on demand of the lawful possessor;
   (J)   Occupy or enter the dwelling of another, without claim of right, or
consent of the owner, or the consent of one who has the right to give consent,
except in an emergency situation;
   (K)   Enter the premises of another with intent to take or injure any fruit,
fruit trees or vegetables growing thereon without the permission of the owner
or occupant; or
   (L)   Without the permission of the owner tamper with or get into or upon a
motor vehicle, or ride in or upon the motor vehicle knowing it was taken and is
being driven by another without the permission of the owner.
(Prior Code, § 10.30) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 CURFEW.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      EMERGENCY. A circumstance or combination of circumstances requiring
immediate action to prevent property damage, serious bodily injury or loss of
life.
      ESTABLISHMENT. Any privately-owned place of business to which the public
is invited, including but not limited to any place of amusement, entertainment
or refreshment.
      GUARDIAN. An adult appointed pursuant to M.S. § 524.1-201(20) who has the
powers and responsibilities of a parent as described by M.S. § 524.5-207.
      JUVENILE. A person under the age of 18 years. The term does not include
persons under 18 years of age who are married or have been legally emancipated.
      PARENTS. Birth parents, adoptive parents and step-parents.
      PROPRIETOR. Any individual, firm, association, partnership or corporation
operating, managing or conducting any establishment. The term includes the
members or partners of an association or partnership and the officers of a
corporation.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to which the public or a substantial group of the
public has access and includes, but is not limited to, streets, highways, and
the common areas of schools, hospitals, apartment houses, office buildings,
transport facilities and shops.
      RESPONSIBLE ADULT. A person over the age of 18 years specifically
authorized by law or by a parent or guardian to have custody and control of a
juvenile.
      SERIOUS BODILY INJURY. Bodily injury that creates a substantial risk of
death or that causes death, serious permanent disfigurement or protracted loss
or impairment of the function of any body part or organ.
   (B)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for a juvenile under the age of 12 years to be
present in any public place or establishment within the city:
         (a)   Any time between 9:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
         (b)   Any time between 10:00 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday and 5:00
a.m. of the following day.
      (2)   It is unlawful for a juvenile from the ages of 12, 13 or 14 years
to be present in any public place or establishment within the city:
         (a)   Any time between 10:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
         (b)   Any time between 11:00 p.m. on any Friday or Saturday and 5:00
a.m. of the following day.
      (3)   It is unlawful for a juvenile ages 15, 16 or 17 years to be present
in any public place or establishment within the city:
         (a)   Any time between 11:00 p.m. on any Sunday, Monday, Tuesday,
Wednesday or Thursday and 5:00 a.m. of the following day.
         (b)   Any time between 12:01 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. on any Saturday or
Sunday.
      (4)   It is unlawful for any parent or guardian of a juvenile knowingly,
or through negligent supervision, to permit the juvenile to be in any public
place or establishment within the city during the hours prohibited in this
division.
      (5)   It is unlawful for any proprietor of an establishment within the
city to knowingly permit a juvenile to remain in the establishment or on the
establishment’s property during the hours prohibited in this division. If the
proprietor is not present at the time of the curfew violation, the responding
officer shall leave written notice of the violation with an employee of the
establishment. A copy of the written notice shall be served upon the
establishment’s proprietor personally or by certified mail.
   (C)   Defenses.
      (1)   It is an affirmative defense for a juvenile to prove that:
         (a)   The juvenile was accompanied by his or her parent, guardian or
other responsible adult;
         (b)   The juvenile was engaged in a lawful employment activity or was
going to or returning home from his or her place of employment;
         (c)   The juvenile was involved in an emergency situation;
         (d)   The juvenile was going to, attending, or returning home from an
official school, religious or other recreational activity sponsored and/or
supervised by a public entity or a civic organization;
         (e)   The juvenile was on an errand at the direction of a parent or
guardian;
         (f)   The juvenile was exercising First Amendment rights protected by
the United States Constitution or Article I of the Constitution of the State of
Minnesota;
         (g)   The juvenile was engaged in interstate travel; and
         (h)   The juvenile was on the public right-of-way boulevard or
sidewalk abutting the property containing the juvenile’s residence or abutting
the neighboring property, structure or residence.
      (2)   It is an affirmative defense for a proprietor of an establishment
to prove that:
         (a)   The proprietor or employee reasonably and in good faith relied
upon a juvenile’s representations of proof of age. Proof of age may be
established pursuant to M.S. § 340A.503, Subd. 6, or other verifiable means,
including but not limited to, school identification cards and birth
certificates.
         (b)   The proprietor or employee promptly notified the responsible
police agency that a juvenile was present on the premises of the establishment
during curfew hours.
(Prior Code, § 10.30) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 SOCIAL HOST.
   (A)   Title and authority. The city desires to protect the health, safety
and welfare of all persons living in and visiting the city. The use of alcohol
by persons under the age of 21 is prohibited by state statute. This section
prohibits, and establishes penalties for any person hosting an event or
gathering where alcohol is present and being possessed or consumed by persons
under 21 years of age. This section is enacted pursuant to M.S. § 145A.05,
Subd. 1.
   (B)   Purpose and findings. The city intends to discourage underage
possession and consumption of alcohol, even if done within the confines of a
private residence, and intends to hold persons criminally responsible who host
events or gatherings where persons under 21 years of age possess or consume
alcohol regardless of whether the person hosting the event or gathering
supplied the alcohol. The city finds that:
      (1)   Events and gatherings held on private or public property where
alcohol is possessed or consumed by persons under the age of 21 are harmful to
those persons and constitute a potential threat to public health requiring
prevention or abatement.
      (2)   Prohibiting underage consumption acts to protect underage persons,
as well as the general public, from injuries related to alcohol consumption,
such as alcohol overdose or alcohol-related traffic collisions.
      (3)   Alcohol is an addictive drug which, if used irresponsibly, could
have drastic effects on those who use it as well as those who are affected by
the actions of an irresponsible user.
      (4)   Often, events or gatherings involving underage possession and
consumption occur outside the presence of parents. However, there are times
when the parent(s) is/are present and, condone the activity, and in some
circumstances provide the alcohol.
      (5)   Even though giving or furnishing alcohol to an underage person is a
crime, it is difficult to prove, and an ordinance is necessary to help further
combat underage consumption.
      (6)   A deterrent effect will be created by holding a person criminally
responsible for hosting an event or gathering where underage possession or
consumption occurs.
   (C)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   ALCOHOL. Ethyl alcohol, hydrated oxide of ethyl, or spirits of
wine, whiskey, rum, brandy, gin, or any other distilled spirits including
dilutions and mixtures thereof from whatever source or by whatever process
produced.
      (2)   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Alcohol, spirits, liquor, wine, beer, and every
liquid or solid containing alcohol, spirits, wine, or beer, and which contains
one-half of one percent or more of alcohol by volume and which is fit for
beverage purposes either alone or when diluted, mixed, or combined with other
substances.
      (3)   EVENT OR GATHERING. Any group of three or more persons who have
assembled or gathered together for a social occasion or other activity.
      (4)   HOST. To aid, conduct, allow, entertain, organize, supervise,
control, or permit a gathering or event, whether that host is present or not.
      (5)   PARENT. Any person having legal custody of a juvenile:
         (a)   As natural, adoptive parent, or step-parent;
         (b)   As a legal guardian; or
         (c)   As a person to whom legal custody has been given by order of the
court.
      (6)   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, corporation,
or any association of one or more individuals.
      (7)   RESIDENCE OR PREMISES. Any home, land, apartment, condominium,
hotel or motel room, or other dwelling unit, or a hall or meeting room, or any
other place of assembly, public or private, whether occupied as a dwelling or
for any social function, and whether owned leased, or rented.
      (8)   UNDERAGE PERSON. Any individual under 21 years of age.
   (D)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It is unlawful for any person(s) to;
         (a)   Host or allow an event or gathering;
         (b)   At any residence, premises, or on any other private or public
property;
         (c)   Where alcohol or alcoholic beverages are present;
         (d)   When the person knows that an underage person will or does:
            1.   Consume any alcohol or alcoholic beverage; or
            2.   Possess any alcohol or alcoholic beverage with the intent to
consume it; and
         (e)   After observing or being alerted to illegal activity, the person
fails to take reasonable steps to prevent possession or consumption by the
underage person(s).
      (2)   A person is criminally responsible for violating this division (D)
if the person intentionally aids, advises, hires, counsels, or conspires with
or otherwise procures another to commit the prohibited act.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   This section does not apply to conduct solely between an underage
person and his or her parents while present in the parent’s household.
      (2)   This section does not apply to legally protected religious
observances.
      (3)   This section does not apply to retail intoxicating liquor or 3.2%
malt liquor licensees, municipal liquor stores, or bottle club permit holders
who are regulated by M.S. §340A.503, Subd.1(a)(1).
      (4)   This section does not apply to situations where underage persons
are lawfully in possession of alcohol or alcoholic beverages during the course
and scope of employment.
   (F)   Enforcement. This section can be enforced by any police officer,
sheriff’s deputy, or certified peace officer in the county.
(Ord. 2009-009, passed 7-6-2009) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 USE OF CANNABIS IN PUBLIC.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply.
      CANNABIS FLOWER, CANNABIS PRODUCTS AND LOWER-POTENCY HEMP EDIBLES. These
terms shall have the meanings as defined in M.S. § 342.01.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Property that is generally open to or accessible by the
public, except on those premises licensed by the state to permit on-site
consumption.
      PUBLIC PROPERTY. Real and personal property owned, managed or controlled
by the city, including city buildings and surrounding land, parking lots,
parks, trails and city rights-of-way consisting of both the traveled portion
and the abutting boulevard, sidewalks and trails, and any city personal
property, including motor vehicles and equipment.
   (B)   Prohibited acts. No person shall use cannabis flower, cannabis
products, or lower-potency hemp edibles in beverage form in a public place or
on public property, except lower-potency hemp edibles in beverage form in non-
glass containers are allowed during an approved social event pursuant to a
permit issued by the City Council.
   (C)   Penalty. A violation of this section is a petty misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2023-06, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person whose actions are not in compliance with this chapter upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as otherwise
stated in specific provisions.
(Prior Code, § 10.99)
   (B)   (1)   Violation of §
130.04(B)(1), (2) or (3) will be prosecuted pursuant to state law and will be
subject to the penalties therein.
      (2)   Violation of §
130.04(B) is a misdemeanor will be subject to the penalty set forth in M.S. §
609.03.
   (C)   Violation of division (D) of §
130.05 is a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 10.30) (Am. Ord. 2009-009, passed 7-6-2009)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK REGULATIONS
      
152.   UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
      
153.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
154.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.001   Private wells
   
150.002   Foundations
Mechanical and Gas Piping Permits; Registration of Contractors; Inspections
   
150.020   Permit required
   
150.021   Mechanical contractor’s license, registration and bond
   
150.022   Revocation
   
150.023   Contractor’s responsibility
   
150.024   Contractor’s responsibility in cases of commercial, industrial and
public buildings
   
150.025   Notification for inspection; responsibility
   
150.026   Additional inspection charges
Plumbing Permits; Registration of Plumbers; Inspections
   
150.040   Permit required
   
150.041   State master plumber’s license, registration and bond
   
150.042   Revocation
   
150.043   Contractor’s responsibility
   
150.044   Plumber’s responsibility in cases of commercial, industrial and
public buildings
   
150.045   Aboveground work; inspection before covering
   
150.046   Underground work; inspection before covering
   
150.047   Notification for inspection; responsibility
   
150.048   Additional inspection charges
Grading and Excavation
   
150.060   Permits required
   
150.061   Definitions
   
150.062   Permit conditions
   
150.063   Fees
   
150.064   Financial security
   
150.065   Amended permit
   
150.066   Cuts
   
150.067   Fills
   
150.068   Setbacks
   
150.069   Drainage and terracing
   
150.070   Erosion control
   
150.071   Compliance with approved grading plan
   
150.072   Inspection
   
150.073   General conformance
   
150.074   Completion of work
Moving Buildings
   
150.085   Unlawful acts
   
150.086   Definitions
   
150.087   Application
   
150.088   Permit and fee
   
150.089   Building permit and code compliance
Construction Licensing, Permits and Regulations
   
150.100   Building Code adopted
   
150.101   Permit fees
   
150.102   Building permits required
Right-of-Way Management
   
150.110   Election to manage the public right-of-way
   
150.111   Definitions
   
150.112   Registration, reporting and permit requirements
   
150.113   Permit application
   
150.114   Issuance of permit
   
150.115   Permit fees
   
150.116   Right-of-way patching and restoration
   
150.117   Supplementary applications
   
150.118   Denial of permit
   
150.119   Installation requirements
   
150.120   Inspection
   
150.121   Work done without a permit
   
150.122   Supplementary notification
   
150.123   Revocation of permits
   
150.124   Mapping data
   
150.125   Location of facilities
   
150.126   Pre-excavation facilities location
   
150.127   Damage to other facilities
   
150.128   Right of way vacation
   
150.129   Indemnification and liability
   
150.130   Removal of abandoned facilities
   
150.131   Appeal
   
150.132   Reservation of regulatory and police powers
 
   
150.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.001 PRIVATE WELLS.
   No well shall be dug, installed, constructed, reconstructed nor maintained
in the city except as permitted by this section.
   (A)   Special permit required. No private wells for water for human
consumption or use shall be constructed except by special permit from the
Council after a hearing and recommendation by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   City inspection. Any well producing water showing evidence of
contamination by organisms of the coliform group, or containing nitrate
nitrogen in concentrations greater than the allowable limits as set
periodically by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency shall be immediately
abandoned from further use. The pumping equipment shall be removed from such a
well and the well shall be filled in accordance with reasonable requirements of
the Building Inspector. The Building Inspector and Health Officer of the city
shall be allowed access to private wells at all reasonable times, and after
reasonable notice, for the purpose of inspecting wells. All private wells shall
be tested from time to time, as determined by the Council, and evidence of the
test results shall be supplied to the city.
   (C)   Connection to municipal water system required. The consumer is
required to connect to the municipal water system six months after the city has
notified the consumer by certified mail that the municipal water lines have
been installed and are ready for hookup and use.
(Prior Code, § 4.11) (Am. Ord. 2008-004, passed 11-3-2008)
§ 150.002 FOUNDATIONS.
   Any structure designed to be used as a dwelling shall be placed on a
foundation constructed of masonry, concrete or treated wood. All footings
supporting the foundation shall be constructed of solid masonry or concrete
placed at a minimum depth of 5 feet below the finished grade.
(Prior Code, § 4.20)
MECHANICAL AND GAS PIPING PERMITS; REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS; INSPECTIONS
§ 150.020 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to perform any work on mechanical
systems, including gas piping, of a building regulated by the City Code without
first having obtained a permit therefor.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to the erection,
installation, alteration, repairs, relocation, replacement, addition to, use or
maintenance of any heating, ventilating, cooling, refrigeration systems,
incinerators or other miscellaneous heat-producing appliances within this
jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 4.04) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.021 MECHANICAL CONTRACTOR’S LICENSE, REGISTRATION AND BOND.
   Each person, firm or corporation doing mechanical or gas piping
installation, repair, or connection for hire within the city shall register
with the city and shall file with the City Administrator the following bond,
insurance, and other requirements:
   (A)   Bond. The applicant for registration shall file a bond in the amount
of$3,000 in favor of the city and of the public in the form prescribed by the
city conditioned upon the faithful performance of work under the registration
and the applicant’s compliance with this section. The bond shall be further
conditioned upon a covenant that the city will be saved harmless from any loss,
damage, cost, or expense by reason of improper or inadequate performance or for
noncompliance with the terms of this section by the applicant or his or her
agents or employees.
   (B)   Certificate of insurance. The applicant for registration shall also
file a certificate of insurance or copies of public liability and property
damage insurance policies containing a provision that they shall not be
cancelled without 10 days’ written notice to the City Administrator showing
coverage of not less than $200,000 for injuries, including accidental death to
any 1 person and subject to the same limits for each person in the amount of
not less than $600,000 on account of any 1 accident, and property damage
insurance in the amount of not less than $50,000.
   (C)   Registration required. It is unlawful for any person to do any
mechanical, heating, ventilating, or gas piping work for hire within the city
without having first registered and having posted a bond and a certificate of
insurance as required herein.
   (D)   Status of employees of license holder. No registered license holder
shall permit any person other than its bona fide employees to perform the work
under the registration.
   (E)   Expiration of registration. Each registration as provided hereunder
shall expire annually on December 31.
(Prior Code, § 4.04)
§ 150.022 REVOCATION.
   Any registration or permit granted under this section may be revoked for
cause by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.04)
§ 150.023 CONTRACTOR’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The building contractor(s) or owner shall notify the Building
Department of the name and address of the mechanical contractor(s) doing work
for each building and the contractor(s) shall be held responsible for
observance of this section.
   (B)   In cases where the building contractor or owner fails to supply the
Building Department with the names and addresses of those doing the mechanical
work, the builder and/or owner shall be responsible for the proper installation
of the work.
(Prior Code, § 4.04)
§ 150.024 CONTRACTOR’S RESPONSIBILITY IN CASES OF COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL AND
PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   For all public buildings and all commercial and industrial buildings with a
floor area of more than 2,000 square feet, the mechanical contractor shall take
out the mechanical permit for heating, gas piping, ventilation, refrigeration,
and air conditioning.
(Prior Code, § 4.04)
§ 150.025 NOTIFICATION FOR INSPECTION; RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be the responsibility of the person who does the mechanical work to
notify the Building Inspection Department 24 working hours in advance of the
time that the job is ready for inspection (based on an 8-hour working day).
(Prior Code, § 4.04)
§ 150.026 ADDITIONAL INSPECTION CHARGES.
   If any violation of this section continues for more than 10 days after
written notification of the violation, the mechanical contractor and/or
employee shall pay a fee as set by the Council for each inspection made
necessary by the violation, in addition to other enforcement action prescribed
herein.
(Prior Code, § 4.04)
PLUMBING PERMITS; REGISTRATION OF PLUMBERS; INSPECTIONS
§ 150.040 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It is unlawful for any person to install or make substantial repairs or
additions to plumbing, sewage disposal, or sewage connection systems without
first securing a permit for the installation, repair or addition.
(Prior Code, § 4.05) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.041 STATE MASTER PLUMBER’S LICENSE, REGISTRATION AND BOND.
   Each person, firm or corporation doing plumbing or sewage installation,
repair, or connection for hire within the city shall have a current license as
Master Plumber from the State of Minnesota, and shall first apply to the city
for registration with the city of the license, and shall file with the City
Administrator the following bond, insurance, and other requirements:
   (A)   Bond. The applicant for registration shall file a bond in the amount
of $3,000 in favor of the city and of the public in the form prescribed by the
city or the State of Minnesota conditioned upon the faithful performance of
work under the license and registration and the applicant’s compliance with
this section. The bond shall be further conditioned upon a covenant that the
city will be saved harmless from any loss, damage, cost, or expense by reason
of improper or inadequate performance or for non-compliance with the terms of
this section by the applicant or his or her agents or employees. The applicant
for a permit may file with the city proof that he has given bond to the State
of Minnesota, pursuant to Minnesota Statutes; and that said bond is in force
and on file with the Secretary of State. The city shall not require a separate
bond if the certification is given.
   (B)   Certificate of insurance. The applicant for registration shall also
file a certificate of insurance or copies of public liability and property
damage insurance policies containing a provision that they shall not be
cancelled without 10 days’ written notice to the City Administrator showing
coverage of not less than $200,000 for injuries, including accidental death to
any 1 person and subject to the same limits for each person in the amount of
not less than $600,000 on account of any 1 accident, and property damage
insurance in the amount of not less than $50,000. The insurance certification
required by this section shall not be required if the applicant provides
certification that public liability insurance, including products liability, as
allowed by Minnesota Statutes, is in force and certification is on file with
the State Board of Health.
   (C)   Registration of license required. It is unlawful for any person to do
any plumbing or sewage installation, repair or connection work for hire within
the city without having first secured the registration of the license and
having posted a bond and a certificate of insurance as required herein.
   (D)   Status of employees of license holder. No registered license shall
permit any person other than its bona fide employees to perform the work under
the license and registration.
   (E)   Expiration of registration. Each registration as provided hereunder
shall expire annually on December 31.
(Prior Code, § 4.05)
§ 150.042 REVOCATION.
   Any registration or permit granted under this section may be revoked for
cause by the Council.
(Prior Code, § 4.05)
§ 150.043 CONTRACTOR’S RESPONSIBILITY.
   The building contractor or owner shall notify the Building Department of the
name and address of the plumber or plumbers doing the plumbing work and/or
sewage disposal work for each building and plumber or plumbers shall be held
responsible for observance of this section. In cases where the building
contractor or owner fails to supply the Building Department with the names and
addresses of those doing the plumbing and/or sewage disposal work, the builder
and/or owner shall be responsible for the proper installation of the work.
(Prior Code, § 4.05)
§ 150.044 PLUMBER’S RESPONSIBILITY IN CASES OF COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL AND
PUBLIC BUILDINGS.
   For all public buildings and all commercial or industrial buildings with a
floor area of more than 2,000 square feet, the plumber shall take out the
plumbing permit.
(Prior Code, § 4.05)
§ 150.045 ABOVEGROUND WORK; INSPECTION BEFORE COVERING.
   No plumbing rough-in work within the building shall be covered before it has
been inspected and passed by the plumbing inspector.
(Prior Code, § 4.05) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.046 UNDERGROUND WORK; INSPECTION BEFORE COVERING.
   No underground plumbing work within the building shall be covered before it
has been inspected and passed by the plumbing inspector.
(Prior Code, § 4.05) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.047 NOTIFICATION FOR INSPECTION; RESPONSIBILITY.
   It shall be the responsibility of the person who does the plumbing work to
notify the Building Inspection Department 24 working hours in advance of the
time that the job is ready for inspection (based on an 8 hour working day).
(Prior Code, § 4.05)
§ 150.048 ADDITIONAL INSPECTION CHARGES.
   If any violation of this section continues for more than 10 days after
written notification of the violation, the plumber shall pay a fee as set by
the Council for each inspection made necessary by the violation, in addition to
other enforcement action prescribed herein.
(Prior Code, § 4.05)
GRADING AND EXCAVATION
§ 150.060 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally. It is unlawful for any person to do any grading, excavation
or fills without first having obtained a permit from the city either under this
section or under §
150.102 for building permits and in compliance with or along with a Storm Water
Management Permit governed by the city's zoning ordinance. A separate permit
shall be required for each site, and may cover grading, excavations and fills.
Changes or deviation from previously approved plans require that an amended
permit be applied for and approved before the work is performed.
   (B)   Exceptions. The following activities are excepted from the requirement
to first obtain a permit, but shall be required to otherwise comply with these
regulations:
      (1)   Grading in an isolated, self-contained area if there is no danger
apparent to private or public property;
      (2)   An excavation below finished grade for basements and footings of a
building, retaining wall or other structure authorized by a valid building
permit. This shall not exempt the requirement for a permit for fill made with
the material from such excavation nor exempt any excavation having an
unsupported height greater than 5 feet after the completion of the structure;
      (3)   Cemetery graves;
      (4)   Refuse disposal sites controlled by other regulations;
      (5)   Excavations for wells, tunnels, existing public alley and roadways,
or utilities;
      (6)   Mining, quarrying, excavating, processing, crushing, screening,
stockpiling of rock, sand, gravel, aggregate or clay where established and
provided for by law or provisions of the City Code. This shall not exempt these
types of activities from the special use permit requirements set forth in other
provisions of the City Code;
      (7)   Exploratory excavations under the direction of soil engineers or
engineering geologists;
      (8)   An excavation which is less than 2 feet in depth or does not create
a cut slope greater than 5 feet in height and steeper than 2 units horizontal
to 1 unit vertical; and
      (9)   A fill which is less than 2 feet in depth and placed on natural
terrain with a slope flatter than 3 horizontal to 1 vertical or less than 3
feet in depth, not intended to support structures. The fill shall not exceed 50
cubic yards on any 1 lot and shall not obstruct a drainage course or infringe
upon a ponding area or wet land.
   (C)   Prohibitions. The activities of processing, crushing, and screening
are prohibited within residential and commercial zoning districts without prior
authorization of the City Council under an approved grading plan. Such grading
plan must identify any mining quarrying, processing, crushing, screening,
stockpiling, loading, and hauling of material.
(Prior Code, § 4.06) (Am. Ord. 2024-03, passed 3-11-2024) Penalty, see §  
150.999
§ 150.061 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AS-GRADED. The extent of surface conditions on completion of grading.
   BEDROCK. In-place solid rock.
   BENCH. A relatively level step excavated into earth material on which fill
is to be placed.
   BORROW. Earth material acquired from an off-site location for use in grading
on a site.
   COMPACTION. The densification of a fill by mechanical means.
   CRUSHING. The practice of reducing large rocks into smaller rocks or gravel.
   DESIGNER. A person registered as an architect, engineer, land surveyor, or
landscape architect responsible for the preparation of the grading plans and
specifications.
   EARTH MATERIAL. Any rock, natural soil or fill and/or any combination
thereof.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the movement
of wind, water and/or ice.
   EXCAVATION. The mechanical removal of earth material.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   GRADE. The vertical location of the ground surface.
      (1)   EXISTING GRADE. The grade prior to grading.
      (2)   FINISH GRADE. The final grade or the site which conforms to the
approved plan.
      (3)   ROUGH GRADE. The stage at which the grade approximately conforms to
the approved plan.
   GRADING. Any excavating or filling or combination thereof.
   KEY. A designed compacted fill placed in a trench excavated in earth
material beneath the toe of a proposed fill slope.
   PROCESSING. Any activity which may include the crushing, washing, blending
of aggregates to create a product, screening, or treatment of sand, gravels,
rocks, or similar mineral products into consumable products, such as
construction grade sand, concrete, concrete products, asphalt, and other
similar products.
   SCREENING. The practice of stockpiling and use of specialized equipment to
separate the excavated material into multiple products by particle size.
   SITE. Any lot or parcel of land or contiguous combination thereof under the
same ownership, where grading is performed or permitted.
   SLOPE. An inclined ground surface the inclination of which is expressed as a
ratio of horizontal distance to vertical distance.
   SOIL. Naturally occurring superficial deposits overlying bed rock.
   TERRACE. A relatively level slope constructed in the face of a graded slope
surface for drainage and maintenance purposes.
(Prior Code, § 4.06) (Am. Ord. 2024-03, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 150.062 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Application and issuance. A grading and excavating permit application
shall be made at the office of the City Administrator upon forms that have been
furnished by the city for such purposes, including the attachment of such plans
and specifications as the city may require. The grading or excavation proposed
in the application shall conform to the requirements of this section. A permit
application must be accompanied by an application for preliminary plat or
request for site plan approval.
   (B)   Approval. 
      (1)   A permit may not be issued until after the Council has approved the
applicant’s preliminary plat, site plan or equivalent approval of the site. For
individual isolated grading or excavation activities, the city may grant a
permit without Council approval of a preliminary plat site plan or equivalent
approval.
      (2)   Whenever there are practical difficulties involved in carrying out
the provisions of this section, the city may grant modifications for individual
cases, provided the city shall first find that special circumstances make the
strict letter of this section impractical and that the modification is in
conformity with the intent and purpose of this section. The details of any
action granting modification, shall be recorded and entered in the files of the
city.
   (C)   Expiration. Every grading/excavation permit shall expire and become
null and void if the work authorized is not commenced within 90 days from the
date of permit issuance, or if the work authorized by the permit is suspended
or abandoned at any time after the work is commenced for a period of 180 days.
The property owner must apply and obtain a new permit before the work can be
recommenced. The fee for a second permit therefore shall be ½ the amount
required for a new permit for such work, provided there are no changes to the
original plans and specifications; and/or abandoned for more than 1 year. If
there are changes, the applicant will pay a full permit fee.
   (D)   Extensions. Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for an
extension of the time within which work under the permit must commence when the
permittee is unable to take action within the time required, by extension for a
period not exceeding 180 days upon written request showing that circumstances
beyond the control of the permittee have prevented action from being taken. No
permit shall be extended more than once.
   (E)   Suspension or revocation. The city may, in writing, suspend or revoke
a permit issued under the provisions of this section whenever the permit is
issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or is found
to be in violation of any regulation or provision of the City Code.
(Prior Code, § 4.06)
§ 150.063 FEES.
   The City Council shall establish fees for grading and excavation permits in
accordance with the fee schedule and for plan review when a plan or other data
are required to be submitted. The applicant shall submit a cash deposit for
construction observation, inspection, and city review in accordance with the
fee schedule. If the deposit is exhausted below $2,000 the applicant shall
submit additional funds to replenish the cash deposit. The city may cease all
work and review associated with the permit until the cash deposit is
replenished. Any balance remaining in the cash deposit after the permit work is
completed and approved shall be returned to the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 4.06) (Am. Ord. 2024-03, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 150.064 FINANCIAL SECURITY.
   The city may require bonds in such form and amounts as may be deemed
necessary to assure that the work, if not completed in accordance with the
reviewed plans and specifications, will be corrected to eliminate hazardous
conditions. In lieu of a surety bond the applicant may file a cash bond or
instrument of credit with the city in an amount equal to that which would be
required in the surety bond. If requested by the applicant, the amount of the
financial security may be reduced by the city based upon the extent to which
the grading and restoration have been completed and shall consider the
continued need for erosion control. Security provided under this section shall
satisfy the security requirements of the Storm Water Management Permit
contained within the zoning ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4.06)
§ 150.065 AMENDED PERMIT.
   The applicant may not make changes to the approved grading or excavation
plan unless approved by the city. Any desired change to the plans shall be
supported by information showing the change desired, the reasons for the
change, the effect the change would have upon buildings, structures, drainage
facilities and patterns. The request shall be accompanied by soils engineering
and geology reports as necessary. If the changes requested by the applicant are
acceptable, the city may issue an amendment to the permit.
(Prior Code, § 4.06)
§ 150.066 CUTS.
   (A)   General. Unless otherwise recommended in a soils engineering and/or
engineering geology report submitted by a professional deemed qualified by the
city, cuts shall conform to the provisions of this section. In the absence of
the report, these provisions may be waived by the city for minor cuts not
intended to support structures.
   (B)   Slope. The slope of cut surfaces shall be no steeper than is safe for
the intended use and shall be no steeper than 2 units horizontal to 1 unit
vertical, for a short term interim period, unless the owner furnishes a soils
engineering or an engineering geology report, or both, stating that the site
has been investigated and giving an opinion that a cut at a steeper slope will
be stable and not create a hazard to public or private property. Unless
specifically approved, permanent slopes shall be no steeper than 3 horizontal
units to 1 vertical unit.
(Prior Code, § 4.06)
§ 150.067 FILLS.
   (A)   General. Unless otherwise recommended in a soils engineering and/or
engineering geology report submitted by a professional deemed qualified by the
city, fills shall conform to the provisions of this section. In the absence of
the report, these provisions may be waived by the city for minor fills not
intended to support structures.
   (B)   Clearing area to be filled. All timbers, logs, trees, brush and
rubbish shall be removed from the site. No burning of the debris will be
allowed unless a burning permit is issued by the city.
   (C)   Preparation of ground. The ground surface shall be prepared to receive
fill by removing vegetation, non-complying fill, topsoil and other unsuitable
material, scarifying to provide a bond with the new fill and, where slopes are
steeper than 5 to 1 and the height is greater than 5 feet, by benching into
sound bedrock or other competent material as determined by the soils engineer.
The bench under the toe of a fill on a slope steeper than 5 to 1 shall be at
least 10 feet wide. The area beyond the toe of fill shall be sloped for sheet
overflow or a paved drain shall be provided. When fill is to be placed over a
cut, the bench under the toe of fill shall be at least 10 feet wide but the cut
shall be made before placing the fill and accepted by the soils engineer or
engineering geologist, or both, as a suitable foundation for fill.
   (D)   Fill material.
      (1)   Organic material shall not be permitted in building pad or roadway
areas. Except as permitted by the city, no rock or similar irreducible material
with a maximum dimension greater than 12 inches shall be buried or placed in
fills.
      (2)   Exceptions. The city may permit placement of larger rock when the
soils engineer properly devises a method of placement, continuously inspects
its placement and approves the fill stability. The following conditions shall
also apply:
         (a)   Prior to issuance of the permit, potential rock disposal areas
shall be delineated on the plan.
         (b)   Rock sizes greater than 12 inches in maximum dimension shall be
10 feet or more below grade, measured vertically.
         (c)   Rocks shall be placed so as assure filling of all voids with
fines.
   (E)   Compaction. All fills shall be compacted to a minimum 90% of maximum
density as determined by the Specified Density Method. In-place density shall
be determined in accordance with ASTM D698-70.
   (F)   Slope. The slope of fill surfaces shall be no steeper than is safe for
the intended use, or 3 horizontal units to 1 vertical unit, whichever is less.
   (G)   Grading and terracing. Grading and terracing shall be provided and the
area above fill slopes and the surfaces of terraces shall be graded and paved
as required by this section.
(Prior Code, § 4.06)
§ 150.068 SETBACKS.
   (A)   General. Cut and fill slopes shall be set back from site boundaries in
accordance with this section. Setback dimensions shall be horizontal distances
measured perpendicular to the site boundary. Setback dimensions shall be shown
on the grading plan.
   (B)   Top of cut slope. The top of cut slopes shall be made not nearer to a
site boundary line than 1/5 of the vertical height of cut with a minimum of 2
feet and a maximum required setback of 10 feet. The setback may need to be
increased for any required interceptor drains.
   (C)   Toe of fill slope. The toe of fill slopes shall be made not nearer to
the site boundary line than ½ the height of the slope with a minimum of 2 feet
and a maximum required setback of 20 feet. Where a fill slope is to be located
near the site boundary and the adjacent off-site property is developed, special
precautions shall be incorporated in the work as the city deems necessary to
protect adjoining property from damage as a result of grading. These
precautions may include but are not limited to:
      (1)   Additional setbacks;
      (2)   Provision for retaining or slough walls;
      (3)   Mechanical or chemical treatment of the fill slope surface to
minimize erosion;
      (4)   Provisions for the control of surface waters.
   (D)   Modification of slope location. The city may approve alternate
setbacks based upon an investigation and recommendation by a qualified engineer
or engineering geologist stating that the intent of this section has been
satisfied.
(Prior Code, § 4.06)
§ 150.069 DRAINAGE AND TERRACING.
   (A)   General. Unless otherwise indicated on the approved plan, drainage
facilities and terracing shall conform to the provisions of this section for
cut or fill slopes.
   (B)   Terraces. Terraces at least 6 feet in width shall be established at
not more than 30-foot vertical intervals on all cut or fill slopes to control
surface drainage and debris except that where only 1 terrace is required, it
shall be at the mid-point of the vertical height. For cut or fill slopes
greater than 60 feet and up to 120 feet in vertical height, 1 terrace at
approximately midheight shall be 12 feet in width. Terrace widths and spacing
for cut and fill slopes greater than 120 feet in height shall be designed by a
licensed geotechnical engineer and reviewed by the city. Suitable access shall
be provided to permit proper cleaning and maintenance. Swales or ditches on
terraces shall have a minimum gradient of 5% and must be paved with reinforced
concrete not less than 3 inches in thickness or an approved equal paving. They
shall have a minimum depth at the deepest point of 1 foot and a minimum paved
width of 5 feet. A single run of swale or ditch shall not collect runoff from a
tributary area exceeding 13,500 square feet (projected) without discharging
into a down drain.
   (C)   Subsurface drainage. Cut and fill slopes shall be provided with
subsurface drainage as necessary for stability.
   (D)   Disposal.
      (1)   All drainage facilities shall be designed to carry waters to the
nearest practicable drainageway approved by the city for the deposit of such
waters. Erosion of ground in the area of discharge shall be prevented by
installation of non-erosive down-drains or other devices. Building pads shall
have a drainage gradient of 2% toward approved drainage facilities, unless
waived by the city.
      (2)   The gradient from the building pad may be 1% where the following
conditions exist throughout the site:
         (a)   No proposed fills are greater than 10 feet in maximum depth;
         (b)   No proposed finish cut or fill slope faces have a vertical
height in excess of 10 feet;
         (c)   No existing slope faces, which have a slope face steeper than 10
horizontally to 1 vertically, have a vertical height in excess of 10 feet.
   (E)   Interceptor drains. Paved interceptor drains shall be installed along
the top of all cut slopes where the tributary drainage area above slopes
towards the cut and has a drainage path greater than 40 feet measured
horizontally. Interceptor drains shall be paved with a minimum of 3 inches of
concrete or granite and reinforced. They shall have a minimum depth of 12
inches and a minimum paved width of 30 inches measured horizontally across the
drain. The slope of drain shall be approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.06)
§ 150.070 EROSION CONTROL.
   (A)   All areas disturbed by grading activities shall be prepared and
maintained to control against erosion. Where necessary, check dams, cribbing,
riprap or other devices or methods shall be employed to control erosion and
provide for site safety.
   (B)   Grading operations, construction sites, and other erosion sources
shall provide for erosion control devices.
(Prior Code, § 4.06)
§ 150.071 COMPLIANCE WITH APPROVED GRADING PLAN.
   (A)   Grading designation. All grading in excess of 5,000 cubic yards shall
be performed in accordance with the reviewed grading plan prepared in
accordance with this section and shall be designated as “engineered grading”.
Grading involving less than 5,000 cubic yards shall be designated "regular
grading" unless the permittee, with the approval of the city, chooses to have
the grading performed as “engineered grading”.
   (B)   Engineered grading requirements. For engineered grading, it shall be
the responsibility of the designer who prepares the grading plan to incorporate
all recommendations from the soils engineering and engineering geology report
into the grading plan. The designer shall be responsible for the professional
inspection and approval of the grading. This responsibility shall include, but
need not be limited to, inspection and approval as to the establishment of
line, grade and drainage of the development area. The designer shall act as the
coordinating agent in the event the need arises for liaison between the other
professionals, the contractor and the city. The designer also shall be
responsible for the preparation of revised plans and the submission of as-
graded grading plans upon completion of the work. The grading contractor shall
submit in a form prescribed by the city a statement of compliance to said as-
graded plan. Soils engineering and engineering geology reports shall be
required as specified herein. During grading all necessary reports, compaction
data and soil engineering and engineering geology recommendations shall be
submitted to the designer and the city by the soils engineer and the
engineering geologist.
   (C)   Regular grading requirements.
      (1)   The city may require inspection and testing by an approved testing
agency.
      (2)   When the city has cause to believe that geologic factors may be
involved, the grading operation will be required to conform to “engineered
grading” requirements.
   (D)   Notification of non-compliance.
      (1)   If the designer, soils engineer, engineering geologist or testing
agency finds that the work is not being completed in conformance with this
section or the reviewed grading plans, the discrepancies shall be reported
immediately in writing to the person in charge of grading work and to the city.
      (2)   Recommendations for corrective measures, if necessary, shall be
submitted.
   (E)   Areas of responsibility.
      (1)   The soils engineer’s area of responsibility shall include, but need
not be limited to, the professional inspection and approval concerning the
preparation of ground to receive fills, testing for required compaction,
stability of all finish slope, and the design of buttress fills, where
required, incorporating data supplied by the engineering geologist.
      (2)   The engineering geologist’s area of responsibility shall include,
but need not be limited to, professional inspection and approval of the
adequacy of natural ground for receiving fills and the stability of cut slopes
with respect to geological matters and the need for subdrains or other
groundwater drainage devices.
      (3)   The testing agency’s responsibility shall include approval
concerning the inspection of cleared areas and benches to receive fill, and the
compaction of fill.
   (F)   City inspection. The city shall inspect the project at the various
stages of the work requiring approval to determine that adequate control is
being exercised by the professional consultants.
   (G)   Transfer of responsibility for approval. If the designer, the soils
engineer, the engineering geologist or the testing agency of record is changed
during the course of the work, the work shall be stopped until the replacement
has agreed to accept the responsibility within the area of his or her technical
competence for approval upon completion of the work.
(Prior Code, § 4.06)
§ 150.072 INSPECTION.
   (A)   General. All grading operations for which a permit is required shall
be subject to inspection by the city. When required by the city, special
inspection of grading operations and special testing shall be performed.
   (B)   Process.
      (1)   The inspector shall observe the work assigned for conformance with
the reviewed design drawings and specifications.
      (2)   All discrepancies shall be brought to the immediate attention of
the contractor for correction. If corrections are not undertaken by the
contractor in a timely manner, discrepancies shall be brought to immediate
attention of the proper design authority and to the city.
      (3)   The inspector shall submit a final signed report stating whether
the work requiring special inspection was, to the best of the inspector’s
knowledge, in conformance with the reviewed plans and specifications. The
report shall be furnished to the city and other designated persons.
      (4)   Inspections may be made on a periodic basis to satisfy the
requirements of continuous inspection, provided the periodic inspection is
performed as outlined in the project plans and specifications and approved by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.06)
§ 150.073 GENERAL CONFORMANCE.
   Whenever the city determines that any existing excavation or embankment or
fill on private property has become a hazard to life and limb, or endangers
property, or adversely affects the safety, use or stability of a property,
public way or drainage channel, the owner of the property upon which the
excavation or fill is located, or other person or agent in control of said
property, upon receipt of notice in writing from the city, shall within the
period specified therein repair or eliminate the excavation or embankment so as
to eliminate the hazard, and be in conformance with the requirements of this
section. The city may inspect any property for compliance.
(Prior Code, § 4.06)
§ 150.074 COMPLETION OF WORK.
   (A)   Final reports. Upon completion of the rough grading work and at the
completion of the grading, the city may require the following reports and
drawings and supplements thereto:
      (1)   An as-graded grading plan prepared by the designer including
original ground surface elevations, as-graded ground surface elevations, lot
drainage patterns, and location, and elevations of all surface and subsurface
drainage facilities. The designer shall state that to the best of the
designer’s knowledge the work was done in accordance with the final approved
grading plan.
      (2)   A soils-grading report prepared by the soils engineer, including
locations and elevations of field density tests. Summaries of field and
laboratory tests and other substantiating data and comments on any changes made
during grading and their effect on the recommendations made in the soils
engineering investigation report. The soil engineer shall render a finding as
to the adequacy of the site for the intended use.
      (3)   A geologic grading report prepared by the engineering geologist,
including a final description of the geology of the site and any new
information disclosed during the grading and the effect of same on
recommendations incorporated in the approved grading plan. The geologic
engineer shall render a finding as to the adequacy of the site for the intended
use as affected by geologic factors.
   (B)   Notification of completion. The city shall be notified when the
grading operation is ready for final inspection, but not before all work,
including installation of drainage facilities and their protective devices, and
erosion-control measures, have been completed and turf has been established in
accordance with the final approved grading plan and the required reports have
been submitted.
(Prior Code, § 4.06)
MOVING BUILDINGS
§ 150.085 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to move a building on any street without
a moving permit from the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful for any person to move a building on any highway
without notifying the city and the county.
   (C)   It is unlawful to move any building (including a manufactured home) if
the point of origin or destination (or both) is within the city, and regardless
of the route of movement, without having paid in full all real and personal
property taxes, special assessments and municipal utility charges due on the
premises of origin and destination and filing written proof of the payment with
the city.
(Prior Code, § 4.10) Penalty, see §
150.999
§ 150.086 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMBINED MOVING PERMIT. A permit to move a building on both a street and a
highway.
   HIGHWAY. A public thoroughfare for vehicular traffic which is a state trunk
highway, county state-aid highway, or county road.
   HIGHWAY MOVING PERMIT. A permit to move a building on a highway for which a
fee is charged which does not include route approval, but does include
regulation of activities which do not involve the use of the highway; which
activities include, but are not limited to, repairs or alterations to a
municipal utility required by reason of the movement.
   MOVING PERMIT. A document allowing the use of a street or highway for the
purpose of moving a building.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. A public or private thoroughfare with a minimum right-
of-way width of at least 60 feet, subject to the City Engineer's discretion,
which is used or intended to be used for passage or travel by motor vehicles.
Streets are further classified by the functions they perform.
   STREET MOVING PERMIT. A permit to move a building on a street for which a
fee is charged which does include route approval, together with use of the
street and activities including, but not limited to, repairs or alterations to
a municipal utility required by reason of the movement.
(Prior Code, § 4.10) (Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-011,
passed 8-18-2014)
§ 150.087 APPLICATION.
   The application for a moving permit shall state the dimensions, weight, and
approximate loaded height of the structure or building proposed to be moved,
the places from which and to which it is to be moved, the route to be followed,
the dates and times of moving and parking, the name and address of the mover,
and the municipal utility and public property repairs or alterations that will
be required by reason of the movement. A site plan will be required as part of
the moving permit application for buildings to be moved into residential zoned
districts. A business and site plan will be required as part of the moving
permit application for buildings to be moved into commercial and industrial
zoned districts. In the case of a street moving permit or combined moving
permit the application shall also state the size and weight of the structure or
building proposed to be moved and the street alterations or repairs that will
be required by reason of the movement.
(Prior Code, § 4.10) (Am. Ord. 52, Second Series, passed 11-4-2002)
§ 150.088 PERMIT AND FEE.
   (A)   The moving permit shall state date or dates of moving, hours, routing,
movement and parking. Permits shall be issued only for moving buildings by
building movers licensed by the State of Minnesota, except that a permit may be
issued to a person moving his or her own building, or a person moving a
building which does not exceed l6 feet in width, 20 feet in length, or 14 feet
in loaded height. Nor shall a license be required of farmers moving their own
farm buildings, nor of persons moving manufactured or modular homes. No permit
shall be required for a person moving his or her own building which does not
exceed 16 feet in width, 24 feet in length, and 14 feet in loaded height. Fees
to be charged shall be separate for each of the following:
      (1)   A moving permit fee to cover use of streets and route approval; and
      (2)   A fee equal to the anticipated amount required to compensate the
city for any municipal utility and public property (other than streets) repairs
or alterations occasioned by the movement.
   (B)   All permit fees shall be paid in advance of issuance.
(Prior Code, § 4.10)
§ 150.089 BUILDING PERMIT AND CODE COMPLIANCE.
   Before any building is moved from 1 location to another within the city, or
from a point of origin without the city to a destination within the city,
regardless of the route of movement, it shall be inspected and a building
permit shall have been issued for at least the work necessary to bring it into
full compliance with the state’s Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 4.10)
CONSTRUCTION LICENSING; PERMITS AND REGULATIONS
§ 150.100 BUILDING CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Codes adopted by reference. The Minnesota State Building Code, as
adopted by the Commissioner of Administration pursuant to M.S. Chapter
326B.101, including all of the amendments, rules and regulations established,
adopted and published from time to time by the Minnesota Commissioner of
Administration, through the Building Codes and Standards Division is hereby
adopted by reference with the exception of the optional chapters, unless
specifically adopted in this section. The Minnesota State Building Code is
hereby incorporated in this section as if fully set out herein.
   (B)   Application, administration and enforcement.
      (1)   The application, administration, and enforcement of the code shall
be in accordance with Minnesota State Building Code. The code shall be enforced
within the extraterritorial limits permitted by M.S. § 326B.121, when so
established by this section.
      (2)   The code enforcement agency of this municipality is called the City
of Jordan Planning Department.
      (3)   This code shall be enforced by the Minnesota Certified Building
Official designated by the city to administer the code (M.S. § 326B.133).
   (C)   Permits and fees.
      (1)   The issuance of permits and the collection of fees shall be as
authorized in M.S. §§ 326B.121 and 326B.153.
      (2)   Permit fees shall be assessed for work governed by this code in
accordance with the fee schedule adopted by the city. In addition, a surcharge
fee shall be collected on all permits issued for work governed by this code in
accordance with M.S. § 326B.148.
   (D)   Violations and penalties. A violation of the code is a misdemeanor.
   (E)   Building Code optional chapters.
      (1)   The Minnesota State Building Code, established pursuant to M.S. §§
326B.101 to 326B.16 allows the municipality to adopt by reference and enforce
certain optional chapters of the most current edition of the Minnesota State
Building Code.
      (2)   The following optional provisions identified in the most current
edition of the State Building Code are hereby adopted and incorporated as part
of the Building Code for this municipality: Chapter 1335, Floodproofing
Regulation, parts 1335.0600 to 1335.1200.
(Prior Code, § 4.01) (Am. Ord. 13, Second Series, passed 1-4-1999; Am. Ord. 65,
Second Series, passed 12-1-2003)
§ 150.101 PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for permits under this chapter, which may include a surcharge, shall be
determined by the Council and fixed by its resolution, a copy of which shall be
in the office of the City Administrator and uniformly enforced.
(Prior Code, § 4.02)
§ 150.102 BUILDING PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to erect, construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, improve, remove, convert, or demolish any building or structure,
or any part or portion thereof, including, but not limited to, the plumbing,
electrical, ventilating, heating or air conditioning systems therein, or cause
the same to be done, without first obtaining from the city any permits required
by the Minnesota State Building Code. The applicant is responsible for
determining that the proposed structure is located solely upon applicant’s
property. Issuance of a building permit is not a guarantee that the building or
structure is located on the applicant’s property.
   (B)   An application for a building permit for the following types of
structures must be accompanied by a certificate of survey:
      (1)   A new principal building.
      (2)   Any new structure or expanded existing structure to be located in
the side yard of a parcel.
      (3)   Detached accessory building.
   (C)   (1)   An application for a building permit for the following types of
structures must be accompanied by reliable evidence that the applicant has
correctly determined the property line and that the new structure or expanded
existing structure will be placed upon applicant’s property in compliance with
setback and easement requirements:
         (a)   A new or expansion of an existing attachment or addition to
principal building that extends further into the back yard or front yard.
         (b)   A fence.
         (c)   A retaining wall.
      (2)   “Reliable evidence” that the building or structure will be placed
on applicant’s property may include a written statement by the abutting
property owner agreeing to the location of the building or structure, provided
the written statement is recorded against both parcels at the Scott County
Recorder’s Office.
   (D)   An application for a building permit for replacement of an existing
attachment or addition to a principal building does not need a certificate of
survey as long as the resulting structure does not extend any further out into
the yard than the existing structure.
   (E)   A certificate of survey must contain the following:
      (1)   Dimension of lot or parcel;
      (2)   North arrow;
      (3)   Property address;
      (4)   Location of all recorded easements, both public and private;
      (5)   Location of proposed structure;
      (6)   Location of existing structures on property;
      (7)   Location of driveway;
      (8)   Proposed direction of surface water drainage;
      (9)   Grade elevations at each lot corner, each corner of proposed
building and top of foundation and garage floor.
   (F)   Failure to accurately and correctly describe the location of the new
or expanded structure and its distance from a city easement or setback is a
violation of this code and in addition to being subject to penalties of §
10.99, the illegally placed structure may have to be removed at applicant’s
expense.
   (G)   (1)   If the city staff determines a person has violated this section,
the City Administrator shall notify the owner and/or the person believed to be
responsible for the violation of the imposition of an administrative penalty in
the amount set by Council for each day thereafter that the violation remains,
as a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a
violation occurs or continues. The written notice shall inform the recipient of
his or her right to appeal an administrative penalty under division (G)(2)
below. The notice may be served personally or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, to the most recent address on file of the property owner and/or
person believed to be responsible for the violation.
      (2)   A person notified of the imposition of an administrative penalty
pursuant to division (G)(1) above may request a hearing before the City Council
by submitting a notice of appeal to the City Administrator within 20 days of
receipt of written notice of administrative penalty. Following a timely receipt
of a written notice of appeal, the person shall be afforded an opportunity for
a hearing before the City Council. The City Council may affirm, adjust, or
waive the administrative penalty. The administrative penalty shall be effective
beginning on the date the property owner and/or person believed to be
responsible for the violation receipt of the written notification from the City
Administrator and continuing until violation is eliminated/resolved to the
city’s satisfaction, unless adjusted or waived by City Council at the
conclusion of an appeal.
      (3)   If after the City Administrator has provided written notice of the
imposition of an administrative penalty and the appeal period has expired or
the administrative penalty was either affirmed or adjusted by the City Council
at the conclusion of a timely appeal, and the administrative penalty remains
unpaid or the situation creating the alleged violation remains uncorrected the
later of 30 days after the expiration of the time to request an appeal hearing
or after the date of the appeal hearing, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this Code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation. Any
person violating this section may be charged with a misdemeanor. A separate
misdemeanor shall be deemed to have been committed upon each day during which a
violation of the Code occurs or continues.
      (4)   Failure to accurately and correctly describe the location of a new
or expanded structure and its distance from a city easement or setback is a
violation of this Code and in addition to being subject to administrative
penalties and possible criminal prosecution set forth herein, the illegally
placed structure may have to removed at the applicant’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 4.03) (Ordinance No. 27, 2nd Series; Am. Ord. 2008-008, passed
12-15-2008; Am. Ord. 2021-11, passed 9-20-2021) Penalty, see §
150.999
RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
§ 150.110 ELECTION TO MANAGE THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   In accordance with the authority granted to the city under state and federal
statutory, administrative and common law, the city hereby elects pursuant to
this chapter to manage rights-of-way within its jurisdiction.
(Ord. 94, Second Series, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.111 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions included in M.S. § 237.162, Minn. Rules part 7819.0100,
subparts. 1 through 25, and Minn. Rules part 7560.0100, subparts 1 through 12
are hereby adopted by reference and are incorporated into this chapter as if
set out in full. Where the definitions set forth in Minn. Rules part 7819.0100
and 7560.0100 refer to M.S. § 237.162, those terms shall be interpreted based
upon M.S. § 237.162.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 150.112 REGISTRATION, REPORTING AND PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Registration. Each person who occupies or uses, or seeks to occupy or
use, the right-of-way or place any equipment or facilities in or on the right-
of-way, including persons with installation and maintenance responsibilities by
lease, sublease or assignment, must register with the city.
      (1)   Registration prior to work. No person may occupy, use, construct,
install, repair, remove, relocate, or perform any other work on any facilities
or any part thereof, in any right-of-way without first being registered with
the city.
      (2)   Information required. The information provided to the city at the
time of registration shall include, but not be limited to:
         (a)   Each registrant's name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers;
         (b)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and
telephone and facsimile numbers of a local representative, all of which shall
be current information regarding how to contact the local representative in an
emergency; and
         (c)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
            1.   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
registrant by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self-insurance acceptable to the city;
            2.   Verifying that the registrant is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the:
               a.   Use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the registrant,
its officers, agents, employees and permittees; and
               b.   Placement and use of facilities and equipment in the right-
of-way by the registrant, its officers, agents, employees and permittees,
including, but not limited to, protection against liability arising from
completed operations, damage of underground facilities and collapse of
property;
            3.   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
            4.   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term;
            5.   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers compensation and umbrella coverage in amounts
established by the city for purposes of protecting the city and the public;
            6.   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies;
and
            7.   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of
authority from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable
state or federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have such
certificate from said commission or other state or federal agency.
      (3)   Notice of changes. The registrant shall keep all the registration
information current at all times by providing to the city information as to
changes within 15 days following the dates on which the registrant has
knowledge of any change.
   (B)   Reporting obligations. Each registrant shall, at the time of
registration and by December 1 of each year, file a construction and major
maintenance plan for their facilities within the city. Such plan shall be
submitted using a format designated by the city and shall contain the frequency
of excavations and obstructions of rights-of-way. The plan shall include, but
not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   Next-year projects. The locations and the estimated beginning and
ending dates of all projects to be commenced during the next calendar year (in
this section, a "next-year project"); and
      (2)   Five-year projects. To the extent known, the tentative locations
and estimated beginning and ending dates for all projects contemplated for the
5 years following the next calendar year (in this section, a "5-year project").
      (3)   (a)   By August 15 of each year, the city will have available for
inspection in the city's office a composite list of all next-year projects and
5-year projects of which the city has been notified as well as a list of city
projects for the upcoming year. All registrants are responsible for keeping
themselves informed of the current status of this list.
         (b)   Thereafter, by September 15, each registrant may change any
project in its list of next-year projects. When a registrant changes any
project in its list of next-year projects, the registrant must notify the city
and all other registrants of all such changes in said list.
         (c)   Thereafter, by September 30, each registrant must notify the
city of all city projects, identified in the list of city projects for the
upcoming year, that the registrant has a next-year project within the same
right-of-way. The registrant shall cooperate and coordinate its next-year
project with the city, the city's engineers and contractors and schedule and
perform its next-year projects within those right-of-ways prior to, concurrent
with, or after the city project as determined and directed by the city or
city's engineers.
      (4)   Eighteen month period. In addition to its authority to deny a
permit application pursuant to § 150.118, the city may deny any permit
application under this chapter where the work to be performed under the permit
would be within a right-of-way where the city has completed a project within
the past 18 months preceding the date of the permit application.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the city will not unreasonably deny a permit
application for a right-of-way permit for failure to include a project in its
next-year plan submitted to the city if the registrant has used commercially
reasonable efforts to anticipate and plan for the project.
   (C)   Permit requirements.
      (1)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in this code, no
person may obstruct or excavate any right-of-way without first having obtained
the appropriate permit from the city.
         (a)   Excavation permit. An excavation permit is required to excavate
that part of the right-of-way described in such permit and to hinder free and
open passage over the specified portion of the right-of-way by placing
facilities described therein, to the extent and for the duration specified
herein.
         (b)   Obstruction permit. An obstruction permit is required to hinder
free and open passage over the specified portion of right-of-way by placing
equipment described therein on the right-of-way, to the extent and for the
duration specified therein. An obstruction permit is not required if a person
already possesses a valid excavation permit for the same project.
         (c)   Small wireless facilities and support structures. An obstruction
permit or excavation permit when applicable are required for the placement of
wireless support structures and placement and collocation of small wireless
facilities in the right-of-way.
         (d)   Small wireless facility permit. A small wireless facility permit
is required for the placement of a new wireless support structure within the
right-of-way or collocation of small wireless facilities on existing wireless
support structures within the right-of-way.
         (e)   Wireless support structure conditional use permit. A conditional
use permit under Chapter 154 of this code is required to install a new wireless
support structure or a small wireless facility in a right-of-way in a district
or area zoned for or allowing single family residential uses, or in an
established historic district.
      (2)   Permit extensions. No person may excavate or obstruct the right-of-
way beyond the date or dates specified in the permit unless such person makes a
supplementary application for another right-of-way permit before the expiration
of the initial permit, and a new permit or permit extension is granted.
      (3)   Delay penalty. In accordance with Minn. Rules 7819.1000, subpart 3,
and notwithstanding division (B) above, the city shall establish and impose a
delay penalty for unreasonable delays in right-of-way excavation, obstruction,
patching, or restoration. The delay penalty shall be established from time to
time by City Council resolution.
      (4)   Permit display. Permits issued under this chapter shall be
conspicuously displayed or otherwise available at all times at the indicated
work site and shall be available for inspection by the city.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 150.113 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   An application for a permit shall contain, and will be considered complete
only upon compliance with the requirements of the following provisions:
   (A)   Submission of a completed permit application form, including all
required attachments, scaled drawings showing the location and area of the
proposed project, the location of applicant's other existing projects, and the
location of all known existing and proposed facilities, and the following
information:
      (1)   Each permittee's name, Gopher One-Call registration certificate
number, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone and facsimile
numbers.
      (2)   The name, address and e-mail address, if applicable, and telephone
and facsimile numbers of permittee's local representative. The local
representative or designee shall be available at all times. Current information
regarding how to contact the local representative in an emergency shall be
provided at the time of application.
      (3)   A certificate of insurance or self-insurance:
         (a)   Verifying that an insurance policy has been issued to the
permittee by an insurance company licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota, or a form of self insurance acceptable to the city;
         (b)   Verifying that the permittee is insured against claims for
personal injury, including death, as well as claims for property damage arising
out of the use and occupancy of the right-of-way by the permittee, its
officers, agents, employees and permittees, and placement and use of facilities
and equipment in the right-of-way by the permittee, its officers, agents,
employees and permittees, including, but not limited to, protection against
liability arising from completed operations, damage of underground facilities
and collapse of property;
         (c)   Naming the city as an additional insured as to whom the
coverages required herein are in force and applicable and for whom defense will
be provided as to all such coverages;
         (d)   Requiring that the city be notified 30 days in advance of
cancellation of the policy or material modification of a coverage term; and
         (e)   Indicating comprehensive liability coverage, automobile
liability coverage, workers' compensation and umbrella coverage established by
the city in amounts sufficient to protect the city and the public and to carry
out the purposes and policies of this chapter.
      (4)   The city may require a copy of the actual insurance policies.
      (5)   If the permittee is a corporation, a copy of evidence of
registration with the Minnesota Secretary of State.
      (6)   A copy of the person's order granting a certificate of authority
from the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission or other applicable state or
federal agency, where the person is lawfully required to have such certificate
from said commission or other state or federal agency.
      (7)   Each small wireless facility permit application may consolidate up
to 15 small wireless facilities provided that all the small wireless facilities
in the application:
         (a)   Are located within a two-mile radius;
         (b)   Consist of substantially similar equipment; and
         (c)   Are to be placed on similar types of wireless support
structures.
      (8)   Small wireless facility permit applications that seek to collocate
a small wireless facility on an existing non-city owned wireless support
structure shall provide the city at the time of application with proof that
applicant has obtained the necessary authority from the owner of the wireless
support structure to collocate the small wireless facility on the structure.
      (9)   Small wireless facility permit applications that propose
collocation of small wireless facilities shall indicate to the extent
practicable the owner of the other facility or facilities, and if the city is
the owner of those facilities, the application shall include a request for
collocation and provide such information as required by the city.
   (B)   An applicant for a small wireless facility permit for purposes of
placing, collocating, maintaining or removing a small wireless facility within
the right-of-way, who has previously provided the city with the information
requested in the permit application, need only specifically refer to the
previous small wireless facility permit application.
   (C)   Payment of money due the city for:
      (1)   Permit fees, cash escrow, estimated restoration costs and other
management costs;
      (2)   Prior obstructions or excavations;
      (3)   Any undisputed loss, damage, or expense suffered by the city
because of applicant's prior excavations or obstructions of the rights-of-way
or any emergency actions taken by the city; and
      (4)   Franchise fees or other charges, if applicable.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 150.114 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Permit issuance. If the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
this chapter, the city shall issue the applicable permit: (1) within 90 days of
receiving an excavation and/or obstruction permit application; (2) within 90
days of receiving an application to deploy a small wireless facility using a
new wireless support structure; and (3) within 60 days of receiving an
application to deploy a small wireless facility using an existing wireless
support structure; unless tolled, or shall provide a written reason for denial
of the application if the city believes the requirements herein have not been
satisfied. The city may notify the applicant on or before the tenth day after
submission that the application is materially incomplete and identify the
missing information and regulation requiring the information. The applicable 90
day/60 day review period shall restart at zero on the date upon which the
applicant submits all the documents and information identified by the city to
render the application complete.
   (B)   Conditions generally.
      (1)   The city may impose reasonable conditions upon the issuance of a
permit hereunder and the performance of the applicant thereunder to protect the
health, safety and welfare or when necessary to protect the right-of-way and
its current use, including but not limited to: ground-mounted equipment is
prohibited unless the applicant can show that ground-mounted equipment is
necessary for the operation of the utility. If ground-mounted equipment is
necessary, it shall comply with the provisions of this code and shall also meet
the following standards:
         (a)   Ground-mounted equipment shall not disrupt traffic or pedestrian
circulation and shall not interfere with vehicle and pedestrian intersection
sight lines;
         (b)   Ground-mounted equipment shall not create a safety hazard;
         (c)   If placed above grade, ground-mounted equipment shall be
separated from other above grade ground-mounted equipment by a minimum of 330
feet unless waived by the city;
         (d)   If placed above grade and located adjacent to residential uses,
ground-mounted equipment shall be limited to three feet in height and 27 cubic
feet in cumulative size;
         (e)   If placed above grade and located adjacent to non-residential
uses, ground-mounted equipment shall be limited to five feet in height above
grade and 81 cubic feet in cumulative size; and
         (f)   Ground-mounted equipment shall be designed or screened in a
manner to comply with the following requirements:
            1.   It shall blend into the surrounding environment through the
use of color and camouflaging architectural treatment, except in instances
where the color is dictated by federal and state authorities.
            2.   Screening plans shall be provided and include a 100% opaque
barrier to be constructed and must be approved by the City Council prior to the
issuance of the small wireless facility permit.
      (2)   In addition, a permittee shall comply with all requirements of
local, state and federal laws, including but not limited to M.S. § 216D.01-09
(Gopher One Call Excavation Notice System) and Minn. Rules part 7560.
   (C)   Small wireless facility permit conditions. In addition to division (B)
of this section, a small wireless facility permit shall also be conditioned
upon the wireless support structure, small wireless facilities and equipment
meeting the following requirements:
      (1)   The collection of small wireless facilities on utility poles or
other structures owned or under the control of the city that are located within
the right-of-way shall be authorized by City Council upon terms and conditions
established by the City Council. A wireless service provider that is granted
authority to collocate small wireless facilities on wireless support structures
owned or controlled by the city and located within the public right-of-way are
required to enter into a standard small wireless facility collocation
agreement, but not an individual license, franchise, or other similar agreement
with the local government unit or any other entity.
      (2)   A new wireless support structure, including attached antennas,
shall not exceed 50 feet above ground level and all wireless support structures
shall be separated from other wireless support structures by a minimum of 600
feet.
      (3)   Notwithstanding requirement (C)(2) of this section, a new wireless
support structure that replaces an existing wireless support structure that is
higher than 50 feet above ground level may be placed at the height of the
existing wireless support structure.
      (4)   The diameter of a new wireless support structure that replaces an
existing wireless support structure shall not exceed the diameter of the
existing wireless support structure by more than 50%.
      (5)   The small wireless facility shall have limited exposed cabling and
mounting hardware. It shall also match the wireless support structure it is
attached to in color and, as close as practicable in material and design.
      (6)   The small wireless facility shall not interfere with public safety
wireless telecommunications.
      (7)   Small wireless facilities in the right-of-way shall be removed and
relocated at the city's request and at no cost to the city when the city
determines that removal and relocation is necessary to prevent interference
with:
         (a)   Present or future city use of the right-of-way for a public
project;
         (b)   The public health, safety, or welfare; or
         (c)   The safety and convenience of travel over the right-of-way.
      (8)   A small wireless facility attached to an existing wireless support
structure shall not block light emanating from the wireless support structure
and shall not otherwise interfere with the original use of the wireless support
structure.
   (D)   Consolidated small wireless facilities permit applications. In
rendering a decision on a consolidated small wireless facility permit
application, the city may approve a permit for some small wireless facilities
and deny a permit for others, but may not use denial of one or more permits as
a basis to deny all the small wireless facilities in the application.
   (E)   Small wireless exemptions. A small wireless facility permit shall not
be required, but an obstruction permit or excavation permit may be required, to
conduct the following activities in the right-of-way:
      (1)   Routine maintenance of a small wireless facility;
      (2)   Replacement of a small wireless facility with a new facility that
is substantially similar or smaller in size, weight, height, and wind or
structural loading than the small wireless facility being replaced; or
      (3)   Installation, placement, maintenance, operation, or replacement of
micro wireless facilities that are suspended on cables strung between existing
utility poles in compliance with national safety codes.
   (F)   Trenchless excavation. As a condition of all applicable permits,
permittees employing trenchless excavation methods, including but not limited
to horizontal directional drilling, shall follow all requirements set forth in
M.S. Chapter 216D and Minn. Rules part 7560, and shall require potholing or
open cutting over existing underground utilities before excavating, determined
by the city.
   (G)   Denial. Any denial of a permit will be made in writing and will set
forth the basis for the denial. The city will notify the applicant in writing
within three business days of its decision to deny or revoke a permit. If a
permit application is denied, the applicant may cure the deficiencies
identified by the city and resubmit its application. If the applicant resubmits
the application within 30 days of receiving written notice of the denial, it
will not be charged an additional fee. The city will either approve or deny the
revised application within 30 days after the revised application is received by
the city.
   (H)   Term. The term of an obstruction or excavation permit shall be equal
to the length of time set forth on the obstruction or excavation permit. The
term of a small wireless facility permit shall be equal to the length of time
that the small wireless facility is in use, unless earlier revoked under this
chapter.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017; Ord. 2019-01, passed 2-19-2019)
§ 150.115 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Excavation permit fee. The city shall establish an excavation permit
fee in an amount sufficient to cover the following costs:
      (1)   The city management costs;
      (2)   Degradation costs, if applicable.
   (B)   Obstruction permit fee. The city shall establish the obstruction
permit fee and shall be in an amount sufficient to recover the city management
costs.
   (C)   Small wireless facility permit fee. The city shall establish the small
wireless facility permit fee and shall be an amount sufficient to recover the
city management costs. In addition, each small wireless provider shall pay the
following fees for each small wireless facility attached to a wireless support
structure owned or controlled by the city:
      (1)   One hundred fifty dollars ($150) per year for rent to occupy space
on a wireless support structure;
      (2)   Twenty-five dollars ($25) per year for maintenance associated with
the space occupied on a wireless support structure; and
      (3)   A monthly fee for electricity used to operate a small wireless
facility, if not purchased directly from the applicable electrical utility
provider, at the rate of:
         (a)   Seventy-three dollars ($73) per radio node less than or equal to
100 max watts;
         (b)   One hundred eighty-two dollars ($182) per radio node over 100
max watts; or
         (c)   The actual costs of electricity, if the actual costs exceed the
amount in divisions (C)(3)(a) or (b) of this section.
   (D)   Payment of permit fees. No excavation permit, obstruction permit, or
small wireless facility permit shall be issued without payment of the permit
fees. The city may allow applicant to pay such fees within ten days of billing.
In addition to the permit fee(s), any initial engineering and preparatory
construction work associated with the collocation or placement of small
wireless facilities on city owned wireless support structures within the right-
of-way shall be paid by the applicant.
   (E)   Non-refundable. Permit fees that were paid for a permit that the city
has revoked for a breach of this chapter are not refundable.
   (F)   Application to franchises. Unless otherwise agreed to in a franchise,
management costs may be charged separately from and in addition to the
franchise fees imposed on a right-of-way user in the franchise.
   (G)   Establishment of fees. All permit fees shall be established consistent
with the provisions of Minn. Rules part 7819.1000.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 150.116 RIGHT-OF-WAY PATCHING AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   Timing. The work to be done under the excavation permit, and the
patching and restoration of the right-of-way as required herein must be
completed within the dates specified in the permit, increased by as many days
as work could not be done because of circumstances beyond the control of the
permittee or when work was prohibited as unseasonable or unreasonable.
   (B)   Patch and restoration. Permittee shall patch its own work. The city
may choose either to have the permittee restore the right-of-way or to restore
the right-of-way itself.
      (1)   City restoration. If the city restores the right-of-way, permittee
shall pay the costs thereof within 10 days of billing. If following such
restoration, the pavement settles due to permittee's improper backfilling, the
permittee shall pay to the city, within 10 days of billing, all costs
associated with the city having to correct the defective work.
      (2)   Permittee restoration. If the permittee restores the right-of-way
itself, it shall at the time of application for an excavation permit post a
construction cash deposit in accordance with the provisions of Minn. Rules
parts 7819.3000 and 7819.0100, subpart 6.
   (C)   Standards. The permittee shall perform patching and restoration
according to the standards and with the materials specified by the city and
shall comply with Minn. Rules part 7819.1100.
   (D)   Duty to correct defects. The permittee shall correct defects in
patching, or restoration performed by permittee or its agents. Upon
notification from the city, the permittee shall correct all restoration work to
the extent necessary, using the method required by the city. Said work shall be
completed within 5 calendar days of the receipt of the notice from the city,
not including days during which work cannot be done due to reasons outside the
permittee's control.
   (E)   Failure to restore. If the permittee fails to restore the right-of-way
in the manner and to the condition required by the city, or fails to
satisfactorily and timely complete all restoration required by the city, the
city at its option may do such work. In that event the permittee shall pay to
the city, within 10 days of billing, the cost of restoring the right-of-way. If
permittee fails to pay as required, the city may exercise its rights to use the
cash escrow posted by the permittee.
(Ord. 94, Second Series, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.117 SUPPLEMENTARY APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Limitation on area. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the area
of the right-of-way specified in the permit. No permittee may do any work
outside the area specified in the permit, except as provided herein. Any
permittee which determines that it must obstruct or excavate an area greater
than that specified in the permit, must before working in that greater area
make application for a permit expansion and pay any additional fees required
thereby, and be granted a new permit or permit expansion.
   (B)   Limitation on dates. A right-of-way permit is valid only for the dates
specified in the permit. No permittee may begin its work before the permit
start date or, except as provided herein, continue working after the end date.
If a permittee does not finish the work by the permit end date, it must apply
for a new permit for the additional time it needs, and receive the new permit
or an extension of the old permit before working after the end date of the
previous permit. This supplementary application must be submitted before the
permit end date.
(Ord. 94, Second Series, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.118 DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   The city may deny a permit for failure to meet the requirements and
conditions of this chapter or if the city determines that the denial is
necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare or when necessary to
protect the right-of-way and its current use.
(Ord. 94, Second Series, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.119 INSTALLATION REQUIREMENTS.
   The excavation, backfilling, patching and restoration, and all other work
performed in the right-of-way shall be done in conformance with Minn. Rules
part 7819.1100 and other applicable local requirements, insofar as they are not
inconsistent with M.S. §§ 237.162 and 237.163. Installation of service laterals
shall be performed in accordance with Minn. Rules part 7560 and this code.
Service lateral installation is further subject to those requirements and
conditions set forth by the city in the applicable permits and/or agreements
referenced in §
150.124(B) of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 150.120 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Notice of completion. When the work under any permit hereunder is
completed, the permittee shall furnish a completion certificate and the
obligation to provide "as built" drawings both in accordance with Minn. Rules
part 7819.1300.
   (B)   Site inspection. Permittee shall make the work site available to city
personnel and to all others as authorized by law for inspection at all
reasonable times during the execution of and upon completion of the work.
   (C)   Authority of city.
      (1)   At the time of inspection, the city may order the immediate
cessation of any work which poses a serious threat to the life, health, safety,
or well-being of the public.
      (2)   The city may issue an order to the permittee for any work that does
not conform to the terms of the permit or other applicable standards,
conditions, or codes. The order shall state that failure to correct the
violation will be cause for revocation of the permit. Within 10 days after
issuance of the order, the permittee shall present proof to the city that the
violation has been corrected. If such proof has not been presented within the
required time, the city may revoke the permit pursuant to §
150.123 of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 150.121 WORK DONE WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   (A)   Emergency situations. Each person with facilities in the right-of-way
shall immediately notify the city of any event regarding its facilities that it
considers being an emergency. Notice to Gopher State One Call regarding the
emergency does not fulfill this requirement. The owner of the facilities may
proceed to take whatever actions are necessary to respond to the emergency.
Within 2 business days after the occurrence of the emergency the owner shall
apply for the necessary permits, pay the fees associated therewith and fulfill
the rest of the requirements necessary to bring itself into compliance with
this chapter for the actions it took in response to the emergency. If the city
becomes aware of an emergency regarding facilities, the city will attempt to
contact the local representative of each facility owner affected, or
potentially affected, by the emergency. In any event, the city may take
whatever action it deems necessary to respond to the emergency, the cost of
which shall be borne by the person whose facilities occasioned the emergency.
   (B)   Non-emergency situations. Except in an emergency situation provided
for in division (A), any person who, without first having obtained the
necessary permit, obstructs or excavates a right-of-way must immediately cease
its obstruction and/or excavation of the right-of-way and take necessary safety
measures to prevent injury to persons or property that may arise from the
obstruction and/or excavation of the right-of-way, and apply for a permit. The
city reserves the right deny a permit application pursuant to §§
150.112(B)(4) and/or
150.118. In addition to the penalty provided by §
150.999, any person who, without first having obtained the necessary permit,
obstructs or excavates a right-of-way shall pay double the normal fee for said
permit, pay double all other fees required by this code, deposit with the city
the fees necessary to correct any damage to the right-of-way and comply with
all of the requirements of §§
150.110 et seq. and
150.999.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017; Am. Ord. 2022-08, passed 12-12-2022)
§ 150.122 SUPPLEMENTARY NOTIFICATION.
   If the obstruction or excavation of the right-of-way begins later or ends
sooner than the date given on the permit, permittee shall notify the city of
the accurate information as soon as this information is known.
(Ord. 94, Second Series, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.123 REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Substantial breach. The city reserves its right, as provided herein,
to revoke any right-of-way permit, without a fee refund, if there is a
substantial breach of the terms and conditions of any statute, ordinance, rule
or regulation, or any material condition of the permit. A substantial breach by
permittee shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
      (1)   The violation of any material provision of the right-of-way permit;
      (2)   An evasion or attempt to evade any material provision of the right-
of-way permit, or the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate any fraud or deceit
upon the city or its citizens;
      (3)   Any material misrepresentation of fact in the application for a
right-of-way permit;
      (4)   The failure to complete the work in a timely manner; unless a
permit extension is obtained or unless the failure to complete work is due to
reasons beyond the permittee's control; or
      (5)   The failure to correct, in a timely manner, work that does not
conform to a condition indicated on an order issued pursuant to §
150.120.
   (B)   Written notice of breach. If the city determines that the permittee
has committed a substantial breach of a term or condition of any statute,
ordinance, rule, regulation or any condition of the permit, the city shall make
a written demand upon the representative of the permittee to remedy such
violation. The demand shall state that continued violations might be cause for
revocation of the permit. A substantial breach, as stated above, will allow the
city, at its discretion, to place additional or revised conditions on the
permit to mitigate and remedy the breach.
   (C)   Response to notice of breach. Within 24 hours of receiving
notification of the breach, permittee shall provide the city with a plan,
acceptable to the city, which will cure the breach. Permittee's failure to so
contact the city, or the permittee's failure to submit an acceptable plan, or
permittee's failure to reasonably implement the approved plan, shall be cause
for immediate revocation of the permit.
   (D)   Reimbursement of city costs. If a permit is revoked, the permittee
shall also reimburse the city for the city's reasonable costs, including
restoration costs and the costs of collection and reasonable attorneys' fees
incurred in connection with such revocation.
(Ord. 94, Second Series, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.124 MAPPING DATA.
   (A)   Information required. Each permittee shall provide mapping information
required by the city in accordance with Minn. Rules parts 7819.4000 and
7819.4100.
   (B)   Service laterals. All permits issued for the installation or repair of
service laterals, other than minor repairs as defined in Minn. Rules part
7560.0150, subp. 2 shall require the permittee's use of appropriate means of
establishing the horizontal locations of installed service laterals, and the
service lateral vertical locations in those cases where the city reasonably
requires it. Permittees or their subcontractors shall submit to the city
evidence of the installed service lateral locations. Compliance with this
division (B) and with applicable Gopher State One Call law and Minnesota rules
governing service laterals installed after December 31, 2005, shall be a
condition of any city approval necessary for payments to contractors working on
a public improvement project including those under Minnesota Statutes, M.S.
Chapter 429, and city approval of performance under development agreements, or
other subdivision or site plan approval under M.S. Chapter 462. The city shall
reasonably determine the appropriate method of providing such information.
Failure to provide prompt and accurate information on the service laterals
installed may result in the revocation of the permit issued for the work or for
future permits to the offending permittee or its subcontractors.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 150.125 LOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   (A)   Placement, location, and relocation of facilities must comply with the
Act, with other applicable law, and with Minn. Rules parts 7819.3100, 7819.5000
and 7819.5100, to the extent the Rules do not limit authority otherwise
available to cities.
   (B)   Corridors. The city may assign specific corridors within the right-of-
way, or any particular segment thereof as may be necessary, for each type of
facility that is, or pursuant to current technology the city expects will
someday be, located within the right-of-way. All excavation, obstruction, or
other permits issued by the city involving the installation or replacement of
facilities shall designate the proper corridor for the facilities at issue.
   (C)   Limitation of space. To protect health, safety, and welfare or when
necessary to protect the right-of-way and its current use, the city shall have
the power to prohibit or limit the placement of new or additional facilities
within the right-of-way. In making such decisions, the city shall strive to the
extent possible to accommodate all existing and potential users of the right-
of-way, but shall be guided primarily by considerations of the public
interests, the public's needs for the particular utility service, the condition
of the right-of-way, the time of year with respect to essential utilities,
protection of existing facilities in the right-of-way, and future city plans
for public improvements and development projects which have been determined to
be in the public interest.
(Ord. 94, Second Series, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.126 PRE-EXCAVATION FACILITIES LOCATION.
   In addition to complying with the requirements of M.S. § 216D.01-.09 ("One
Call Excavation Notice System"), before the start date of any right-of-way
excavation, each registrant who has facilities or equipment in the area to be
excavated shall mark the horizontal and vertical placement of all said
facilities. Any registrant whose facilities are less than 20 inches below a
concrete or asphalt surface shall notify and work closely with the excavation
contractor to establish the exact location of its facilities and the best
procedure for excavation.
(Ord. 94, Second Series, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.127 DAMAGE TO OTHER FACILITIES.
   When the city does work in the right-of-way and finds it necessary to
maintain, support, or move facilities to protect the right-of-way, the city
shall notify the local representative of the facilities as early as is
reasonably possible and placed as required. The costs associated therewith will
be billed to that facility owner and must be paid within 30 days from the date
of billing. Each facility owner shall be responsible for the cost of repairing
any facilities in the right-of-way which it or its facilities damages. Each
facility owner shall be responsible for the cost of repairing any damage to the
facilities of another caused during the city's response to an emergency
occasioned by that owner's facilities.
(Ord. 94, Second Series, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.128 RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION.
   If the city vacates a right-of-way that contains facilities, the facility
owner's rights in the vacated right-of-way are governed by Minn. Rules part
7819.3200.
(Ord. 94, Second Series, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.129 INDEMNIFICATION AND LIABILITY.
   By applying for and accepting a permit under this chapter, a permittee
agrees to defend and indemnify the city in accordance with the provisions of
Minn. Rules part 7819.1250.
(Ord. 94, Second Series, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.130 REMOVAL OF ABANDONED FACILITIES.
   Any person who has abandoned facilities in any right-of-way shall remove
them from that right-of-way at the owner's expense if required in conjunction
with other right-of-way repair, excavation, or construction, unless the city
waives this requirement.
(Ord. 94, Second Series, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.131 APPEAL.
   A right-of-way user that has been denied a permit; has had permit revoked;
believes that the fees imposed are invalid; or disputes a determination of the
city regarding §
150.124(B) of this chapter may have the denial, revocation, fee imposition, or
decision reviewed upon written request by the City Council. The City Council
shall act on a timely written request at its next regularly-scheduled meeting.
A decision by the City Council affirming a denial, revocation, or fee
imposition will be in writing and supported by written findings establishing
the reasonableness of the decision.
(Ord. 2017-05, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 150.132 RESERVATION OF REGULATORY AND POLICE POWERS.
   A permittee's rights are subject to the regulatory and police powers of the
city to adopt and enforce general ordinances necessary to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 94, Second Series, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 150.999 PENALTY.
   Every person violates a section, division or provision of this chapter when
he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or fails to
act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or performs
an act prohibited or declared unlawful or fails to act when the failure is
prohibited or declared unlawful by a Code adopted by reference by this chapter,
and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as
otherwise stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 4.99)
CHAPTER 151: MANUFACTURED HOME PARK REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Purpose
   
151.02   Plan requirements
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Application of chapter
   
151.05   Manufactured home park standards
   
151.06   Administration and enforcement
   
151.07   Notices and orders
   
151.08   Variances
 
   
151.99   Penalty
§ 151.01 PURPOSE.
   This section is adopted for the purpose of:
   (A)   Protecting the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience and
general welfare; and
   (B)   Providing excellence of design, development and maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 4.30) (Ord. 142, passed 9-2-1988)
§ 151.02 PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   The following plan requirements shall be submitted with a conditional use
permit application required pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance.
   (A)   Five copies of a plot plan drawn to scale and showing:
      (1)   Location and size of the manufactured home park;
      (2)   Location and size of all manufactured home sites, storage areas,
recreation areas, buildings, roadways, and parking sites, and all setback
lines;
      (3)   Detailed landscaping plans and specifications;
      (4)   Location and width of sidewalks;
      (5)   Plans for sanitary sewage disposal, surface drainage, water
systems, electrical service, and gas service;
      (6)   Location and size of all streets abutting the manufactured home
park and all entrances from the streets to the manufactured home park;
      (7)   Road construction plans and specifications;
      (8)   Plans for any and all structures; and
      (9)   Such other information as required or implied by these manufactured
home park standards or requested by public officials.
   (B)   Name and address of developer;
   (C)   Description of the method of disposing of garbage and refuse;
   (D)   Detailed description of maintenance procedures and grounds
supervision; and
   (E)   Outline of timing of construction, including any phased or staged
development (i.e., time involved, cost estimates, stage developments, if any,
and the like).
(Prior Code, § 4.30) (Ord. 142, passed 9-2-1988)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which
in the traveling mode, is 8 body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more
in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
contained therein.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which 2
or more occupied manufactured homes are located, either free of charge or for
compensation, and includes any building, structures, tent, vehicle or enclosure
used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the manufactured home
park.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SITE. An area of ground in a manufactured home park of not
less than 5,000 square feet designated as a location for one manufactured home.
(Prior Code, § 4.30) (Ord. 142, passed 9-2-1988)
§ 151.04 APPLICATION OF CHAPTER.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to park any manufactured home, except as
provided in this section.
   (B)   Before any person shall construct, operate and maintain a manufactured
home park in the city, the person shall first obtain a conditional use permit
to do so as hereinafter provided.
      (1)   Application fee. The applicant shall pay a fee in an amount set by
resolution of the Council at the time the application is filed. If and when a
permit is granted hereunder, the applicant shall pay an additional amount per
manufactured home lot. These fees are imposed for the purpose of defraying
expenses incurred by the city in the administration of this section and shall
not be construed to be a license.
      (2)   Incurred costs. The applicant shall pay, in addition to the filing
fee, all reasonable costs incurred by the city for review and inspection,
including preparation and review of plans, specifications, plats and other data
required by the City Administrator, City Engineer and City Attorney, and the
costs of any other legal, professional or staff services of a similar nature,
upon receipt of a statement therefor from the City Clerk. Nonpayment of the
amount specified in said statement for a period of 15 working days from the
mailing date thereof shall result in the automatic tabling of the application.
The Council may at its discretion require an escrow deposit in an amount it
deems necessary from the applicant to cover the anticipated costs.
   (C)   A conditional use permit for a manufactured home park may be reviewed
once each year and revoked if development and maintenance is not in substantial
compliance thereof.
   (D)   The requirements of a conditional use permit shall prevail over any
and all other requirements, standards or conditions.
(Prior Code, § 4.30) (Ord. 142, passed 9-2-1988)
§ 151.05 MANUFACTURED HOME PARK STANDARDS.
   (A)   Total land area required: The minimum total park area, for
manufactured home parks developed after January 1, 2014, shall be 5 acres and
not less than 250 feet in width.
   (B)   All manufactured home parks shall have at least 10% of its land area
developed for open and recreational use, and shall be maintained as a common
facility by the manufactured home park owner. The open space shall be a
definable play area(s) with playground facilities/features and open space
within the manufactured home park. Such areas of open space and/or play area
shall not be areas included within any setback nor shall they include any areas
of less than 20 feet in length or width. Open space areas are subject to
approval by the city. The city may reduce the play area square footage
requirement by a maximum of 30% of the total square feet required, if the park
owner/developer installs trail facilities within the manufactured home park.
   (C)   All manufactured homes shall be connected to the city water and
sanitary sewer system. Plans for disposal of surface water must be approved by
the city.
   (D)   Garbage, waste and trash disposal shall be done by a hauler licensed
by the city.
   (E)   Each manufactured home park shall have an area set aside for storage
of vehicles.
   (F)   Each manufactured home park shall have a central community building
which shall include laundry washing and drying machines. Each manufactured home
park shall have a storm shelter or a plan of evacuation and sheltering for all
residents of the park in times of severe weather conditions such as tornadoes,
high winds and floods in accordance with Minnesota Statutes. A manufactured
home park with ten or more manufactured homes, receiving a primary license
after March 1, 1988 must provide the type of shelter specified by Department of
Administration Rules 1370.0100 through 1370.0230 relating to Manufactured Home
Park Storm Shelter Design.
   (G)   An adult caretaker must be on duty or available for call in the
manufactured home park at all times.
   (H)   Each manufactured home park shall have an office in the central
community building, with the office area designated as such.
   (I)   There shall be maintained in the manufactured home park office, a
registry containing the following information:
      (1)   Names and addresses of each permanent resident; and
      (2)   A brand name and year of each manufactured home in the manufactured
home park.
   (J)   Each manufactured home shall be maintained in a safe, clean and
sanitary condition, in good repair, structurally sound.
   (K)   The area around the manufactured home shall be skirted within 30 days
of installation at a manufactured home park site. The enclosure must be
accessible for inspection and no obstruction shall be permitted that impedes
the inspection of the manufactured home, plumbing, electrical facilities and
related equipment. No storage shall be permitted beneath the manufactured home.
   (L)   All manufactured homes shall be anchored; all hitches shall be removed
or concealed. All anchors shall be state approved devices providing for the
stability of the manufactured home. The placement of the anchors shall be in
compliance with the State Building Code.
   (M)   The lot corners of each manufactured home site shall be able to be
located.
   (N)   A map of the manufactured home park shall be displayed on the outside
of the central community building, and shall be illuminated during all hours of
darkness.
   (O)   Laundry and clothes may be hung outdoors only on retractable, umbrella
type hangers, not to exceed 1 per manufactured home site. The drying device
shall be no larger than 8 feet by 8 feet when fully extended, and shall be
retracted when not in use.
   (P)   Each manufactured home site shall have a minimum of 2 and not more
than 3 off-street parking sites, not to exceed 10 feet by 10 feet for each
parking site.
   (Q)   The manufactured home park shall have street lighting as approved by
the city. The street lighting shall adequately illuminate the streets and
sidewalks and all service building parking areas and entrances. The lighting
will be shielded to prevent any light to be directed at traffic or residential
property in such brilliance as to constitute a danger or a nuisance.
   (R)   No public address or speaker system shall be permitted.
   (S)   Dogs, cats and other domestic animals shall not be permitted to run at
large within the manufactured home park. No farm animals shall be allowed in
the manufactured home park. Persons keeping animals in the manufactured home
park shall comply with all applicable City Code provisions.
   (T)   Fire hydrants shall be placed throughout the manufactured home park in
such a way as to meet the requirements of the District Fire Marshal.
   (U)   No tents shall be erected or occupied except on a temporary basis.
   (V)   There shall be no camping anywhere within the manufactured home park.
   (W)   No additions or freestanding structures shall be permitted on any
manufactured home site without a building permit from the city.
   (X)   Each manufactured home site shall have the following features:
      (1)   Frontage on an approved roadway or side road;
      (2)   Concrete sidewalks or asphalt walkways;
      (3)   Shall be landscaped and maintained with grass on the entire site
except for areas used for streets, sidewalks, patios, manufactured home parking
areas or vehicle parking areas;
      (4)   Manufactured homes shall be located no closer than 3 feet to the
side lot lines; no closer than 3 feet to the rear lot line, and no closer than
20 feet to the front lot line. Corner lots shall have a setback of 20 feet on
one street side and a setback of 10 feet on the other street side. Lots that
have a curved front shall have at least ½ of the side of the home adjacent to
the curved portion set back 20 feet if it is the front of the manufactured home
and 10 feet if it is the side of the manufactured home. Manufactured homes
within parks platted or developed after January 1, 2014, manufactured homes
shall be placed upon manufactured home lots so that there shall be at least a
20 foot clearance between manufactured homes and 25 feet between the front of
the manufactured home and the front lot line and 10 feet between the rear of
the manufactured home and the rear lot line; and
      (5)   Each manufactured home site shall have a front yard; the driveway
and sidewalk shall not exceed ½ of the width of the site.
   (Y)   Each manufactured home site with frontage to a public street shall
conform to all setbacks and requirements of the zoning district in which the
site is located.
   (Z)   All manufactured homes shall be no less than 50 feet in length and no
less than 10 feet in width, except double wides which shall be no less than 40
feet in length and no less than 20 feet in width.
   (AA)   Roadways:
      (1)   Shall be a minimum 24 feet in width from face of curb to face of
curb and paved as approved by the city;
      (2)   Shall have a concrete or bituminous curb and gutter as approved by
the city; and
      (3)   Shall be passable by emergency vehicles at all times.
      (4)   No parking shall be allowed on internal streets, with streets
posted with no parking signs.
   (BB)   Each manufactured home park shall maintain a paved, off-street
parking area for guests in an amount of 1 space for every 3 manufactured home
sites.
   (CC)   All land areas shall be:
      (1)   Adequately drained; and
      (2)   Free from refuse, garbage, rubbish or debris.
   (DD)   All common areas shall be landscaped in accordance with plans
approved by the city.
   (EE)   All utility installations shall be approved by the city.
   (FF)   Each manufactured home park shall be allowed 1 sign not to exceed 25
square feet, with lighting, height and location approved by the city.
   (GG)   Each manufactured home park shall have at least 10 fully developed
manufactured home sites.
   (HH)   House numbers shall appear on each manufactured home so that they are
readily visible from the street.
   (II)   Each resident of a manufactured home park shall be allowed to use 1
off-street parking space for the purpose of storing a boat, recreation vehicle,
motorized recreation vehicle, campers or trailers. No boats, motorized
recreation vehicles, campers or camping trailers may be stored on any
manufactured home site from November 1 until April 30 in any given year.
   (JJ)   Emergency or temporary stopping or parking is permitted on any
street, alley or highway for not longer than 24 hours subject to any other and
further prohibitions, regulations or limitations imposed by the traffic and
parking regulations of the City Code for that street, alley or highway.
   (KK)   Garages.
      (1)   Each manufactured home site shall be required to provide 1 garage
on site. The garage shall not be wider than 24 feet and not longer than 28
feet. Two combined garages shall be permitted on adjacent lots sharing a common
wall and shall be not wider than 28 feet in width and not longer than 28 feet
in length.
      (2)   If a garage is constructed on a manufactured home site, no outside
storage building shall be allowed. If there is an existing outside storage
building, it must be removed no later than upon construction of a garage or 2
months from the date of the garage building permit, whichever is sooner.
      (3)   The garages as constructed shall have a pitched roof. If a gable
roof is used, the roof pitch shall be a minimum of 4/12. If a mansard roof is
used, the pitch from front to rear shall be a minimum of 2 feet in 24 feet with
the mansard to be across the front of the garage.
      (4)   The siding shall consist of wood, masonite, aluminum or steel
siding, all of which shall be stained or painted.
      (5)   All garages shall be located on a concrete slab to conform with the
Uniform Building Code.
      (6)   No garage shall be constructed without a building permit. Any
garage constructed shall be built in conformity with the State Building Code
and Fire Codes.
      (7)   No garage shall be constructed without site approval by the
Planning Commission. Each application for a building permit shall be
accompanied by a site plan indicating the location of the manufactured home,
the proposed garage, the existing driveway, the proposed driveway, the location
of the gas service and meter, the location of the electric lines and meter, and
the location of the telephone line and telephone pedestal, if any. Each garage
shall be located with such setback and side yard requirements as per Code.
      (8)   No garage shall be constructed without written approval of the
garage plan and site location by the manager of the manufactured home park. The
approval shall accompany and become a part of the building permit application.
   (LL)   Pedestrian access required. All parks shall be provided with safe
convenient all-season pedestrian access of adequate width for intended use,
durable and convenient to maintain, between individual manufactured home, the
park streets and all community facilities provided for park residents. A common
walk system shall be provided and maintained between locations where pedestrian
traffic is concentrated. Such common walks shall have a minimum width of 4½
feet and shall be located on at least 1 side of the street. All manufactured
homes shall be connected to common walks, to paved streets, or to paved
driveways or parking spaces connecting to a paved street. Such individual walks
shall have a minimum width of 2 feet. Common walkways shall connect to
municipal trails where feasible.
   (MM)   Screening required. All manufactured home parks shall be completely
screened along all manufactured home park property boundary lines separating
the park from adjacent properties and/or right-of-ways by a complete perimeter
fence consisting of wood, brick or stone and/or natural growth screening. Such
fencing and/or screening shall be maintained in excellent condition at all
times and in all other respects comply with the standards applicable to fencing
and/or screening set forth within this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.30) (Ord. 142, passed 9-2-1988; Am. Ord. 1-90, passed 4-27-
1990; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 12-2-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 151.06 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Each manufactured home park owner and each person residing in a
manufactured home park shall abide by this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided herein, this section shall be
administered and enforced by the City Administrator or his or her designee who
is hereby designated as enforcing officer. The City Administrator may institute
in the name of the city any appropriate actions or proceeding against any
person violating this section.
   (C)   The City Administrator or designee is hereby authorized and directed
to make such inspections as are necessary to determine satisfactory compliance
with this section, including the power to enter at reasonable times upon any
private or public property for the purposes.
   (D)   The City Administrator or the Chief of Police shall have the power to
inspect the register containing a record of all residents of the manufactured
home park.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the park owner to give the City Administrator
free access to all lots at reasonable times for the purpose of inspection.
   (F)   The park owner shall have access to a manufactured home lot as
described in M.S. § 327C.14, as amended, in order to make necessary repairs or
alterations for compliance with this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 4.30) (Ord. 142, passed 9-2-1988)
§ 151.07 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   (A)   Notice.
      (1)   Whenever the City Administrator or his or her designee determines
that there are reasonable grounds to believe that there has been a violation of
any provision of this section, the City Administrator shall give notice of the
alleged violation to the person violating this section. The notice shall:
         (a)   Be in writing;
         (b)   Include a statement of the reasons for its issuance;
         (c)   Allow 30 days’ time for the performance of any act it requires.
If work cannot be completed in the 30-day period, extensions may be granted in
the case of demonstrated hardship; and
         (d)   Be served upon the violators or the owner or his or her agent as
the case may require.
      (2)   Provided, that the notice or order shall be deemed to have been
properly served upon the violator, owner or agent when a copy thereof has been
sent by mail to his or her last known address, or when he or she has been
served with the notice by any method authorized or required by the laws of this
state.
   (B)   Emergency. Whenever the City Administrator finds that an emergency
exists which requires immediate action to protect the public health, he or she
may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such
an emergency and requiring that the action be taken as he or she may deem
necessary to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding any other provisions of this
section, such an order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such
an order is directed shall comply therewith immediately.
(Prior Code, § 4.30) (Ord. 142, passed 9-2-1988)
§ 151.08 VARIANCES.
   The Council shall have the right to vary or modify the strict application of
any of the regulations or provisions contained in this section in cases where
it is determined that their strict enforcement would cause practical
difficulties. Any variance request shall be in accordance with §
154.048.
(Prior Code, § 4.30) (Ord. 142, passed 9-2-1988; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 12-2-
2013)
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   Any person whose actions are not in compliance with this chapter, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as otherwise
stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 4.99)
CHAPTER 152: UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
Section
   
152.01   Required
   
152.02   Utility companies
   
152.03   Exceptions to requirements
   
152.04   Repair and maintenance of existing installations
   
152.05   Rebuild and upgrade
   
152.06   Permits
   
152.07   Utilized utilities
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 REQUIRED.
   All utility lines hereafter installed, constructed or otherwise placed
within the city for electric, telephone, cable television or other like or
similar services to serve residential, commercial, and industrial customers in
newly platted areas, and replatted or redeveloped areas, whether owned,
installed or constructed by the supplier, consumer or any party shall be
installed and placed underground in an approved, safe manner, subject only to
the exceptions stated below.
(Prior Code, § 4.40)
§ 152.02 UTILITY COMPANIES.
   All companies installing and operating lines such as those described herein
shall be referred to as “utility companies” for the purpose of this section.
(Prior Code, § 4.40)
§ 152.03 EXCEPTIONS TO REQUIREMENTS.
   The following exceptions to the strict applicability of this section shall
be allowed upon the conditions stated:
   (A)   Above ground placement, construction, modification or replacement
shall be permitted for:
      (1)   Meters, gauges, regulators, town border stations, compressor
stations, transformers, street lighting, service connection pedestals,
sectionalizing equipment, substations, and related equipment.
      (2)   Those lines commonly referred to as transmission or substation
distribution feeder lines; provided, however, that 60 days prior to
commencement of construction of such a project, the City Administrator shall be
furnished written notice of the proposed project and upon request, the utility
company involved may furnish any relevant information regarding such project to
the City Administrator.
      (3)   Those lines in residential, commercial, and industrial areas where
the Council, following consideration and recommendation by the Planning
Commission, finds that underground placement is financially impractical or not
technically feasible due to topographical, subsoil or other existing conditions
which adversely affect underground utility placement.
   (B)   Above ground placement of temporary service lines shall only be
allowed:
      (1)   During the new construction of any project for a period of not to
exceed 24 months.
      (2)   During an emergency to safeguard lives or property within the city.
      (3)   For a period of not more than 7 months when soil conditions make
excavation impractical.
(Prior Code, § 4.40)
§ 152.04 REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE OF EXISTING INSTALLATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent repair, or maintenance
of existing overhead utility lines.
(Prior Code, § 4.40)
§ 152.05 REBUILD AND UPGRADE.
   Significant replacement, rebuild or upgrading of existing overhead systems
shall be subject to underground requirements unless exempted by §
152.03. Overhead systems being rebuilt, should attempt to eliminate overhead
systems whenever possible, especially in cases where they are the only utility
on the pole.
(Prior Code, § 4.40)
§ 152.06 PERMITS.
   Utility companies must obtain a permit to work within the city’s right-of-
way. See §
150.110 et al.
(Prior Code, § 4.40)
§ 152.07 UTILIZED UTILITIES.
   Existing utility poles which are no longer utilized by any utilities may not
be used by a utility unless underground installation is not feasible pursuant
to §
152.03.
(Prior Code, § 4.40)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   Any person whose actions are not in compliance with this chapter, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as otherwise
stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Prior Code, § 4.99)
CHAPTER 153: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
153.01   General provisions
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Scope of legal authority
   
153.04   Short title
   
153.05   Exceptions
   
153.06   General platting requirements
   
153.07   Minor subdivisions
   
153.08   Premature subdivisions
   
153.09   Disqualification and/or denial of plats
   
153.10   Shoreland/floodprone lands
   
153.11   Design standards
   
153.12   Sketch plan
   
153.13   Preliminary plat
   
153.14   Final plat
   
153.15   Basic improvements required
   
153.16   Registered land surveys and conveyance by metes and bounds
   
153.17   Variances
   
153.18   Amendments
   
153.19   Unlawful acts
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   This chapter is adopted in order to safeguard the best interests of
the city and to assist the subdivider in harmonizing the subdivider’s interests
with those of the city at expanding community, and to which the community will
be forced to adhere, and because piecemeal planning of subdivisions will bring
on undesirable, disconnected patchwork or pattern and poor circulation of
traffic unless its design and arrangement is correlated to a comprehensive plan
of the city aiming at a unified scheme of community interests, all subdivisions
of land hereafter submitted for approval to the city and the Planning
Commission shall, in all respects, fully comply with the regulations
hereinafter set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   It is the purpose of this chapter to make certain regulations and
requirements for the platting of land within the city to provide for health,
safety, and the general welfare and to:
         (a)   Provide for and guide the orderly, economic and safe development
of land and urban
services and facilities;
         (b)   Encourage well planned, efficient, and attractive subdivisions
by establishing adequate standards for design and construction;
         (c)   Facilitate adequate provision for streets, transportation, city
water, city sewer, storm drainage, schools, parks, playgrounds, and other
public services and facilities;
         (d)   Assure that a reasonable portion of any proposed subdivision is
dedicated to the public or preserved for public use as streets; roads; sewers;
electric, gas and water facilities; storm water drainage and holding areas or
ponds; and similar utilities and improvements;
         (e)   Assure that public improvements are constructed to adequate
standards;
         (f)   Place the cost of improvements against those benefiting from
their construction;
         (g)   Secure the rights of the public with respect to public lands and
waters;
         (h)   Assure that new subdivisions are consistent with the
Comprehensive Plan, the Growth Development Plan, and overall development
objectives of the city;
         (i)   Achieve a more secure tax base; and
         (j)   Set the minimum requirements necessary to protect the public
health, safety, and general welfare.
   (B)   Application of this chapter. Any plat for each subdivision or each
part thereof lying within the jurisdiction of this chapter, shall be prepared,
presented for approval and recorded as herein prescribed. The regulations
contained herein shall apply to the subdivision of a lot, tract or parcel of
land into two or more lots, tracts or other division of land for the purpose of
sale or of building development, whether immediate or future, including the
resubdivision or replatting of land or lots; except, where the subdivision or
re-subdivision meets the requirements of a minor subdivision or is listed as an
exception.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005)
§ 153.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   APPLICANT. Any person who wishes to obtain a building permit, zoning, or
subdivision approval, or a permit to allow land-disturbing activities.
Applicant also means that person's agents, employees, and others acting under
this person's direction.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES or BMPs. Erosion and sediment control and water
quality management practices that are the most effective and practicable means
of controlling, preventing and minimizing the degradation of surface water,
including construction-phasing, minimizing the length of time soil areas are
exposed, prohibitions, and other management practices published by state or
designated area-wide planning agencies. Techniques proven to be effective in
controlling runoff, erosion and sedimentation including those documented in the
Minnesota Construction Site Erosion and Sediment Control Planning Handbook
(BWSR, 1988); Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas (MPCA, 2000); the
Minnesota Urban Small Sites BMP Manual (Metropolitan Council 2001); and other
sources as approved by the Scott Watershed Management Organization: as such
documents may be amended, revised or supplemented.
   BLOCK. A tract of land consisting of 1 or more lots as identified on a plat
and bounded by plat boundaries, public ways, outlots, parks or bodies of water.
(M.S. § 505.01)
   BLUFF. A topographical feature such as a hill, cliff, or embankment in which
the average grade of any portion of the slope is 30% or greater and there is at
least a 25-foot rise in elevation.
   BLUFF FACE. The area between the toe of the bluff and the top of the bluff.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A 25-foot zone at the top of a bluff.
   BLUFF, TOE OF. The lower point of a bluff where the average slope levels off
to 18% or less.
   BLUFF, TOP OF. The point on a bluff where there is, as visually observed, a
clearly identifiable break in the slope, from steeper to gentler slope above.
If no break in slope is apparent, the top of the bluff shall be determined as
the highest end of a 50-foot segment that exceeds 18% slope.
   BOULEVARD. A portion of the street right-of-way between the curb line and
the property line.
   BUILDABLE LAND. The net land area available for development determined by
taking the gross land area in its pre-development condition and subtracting all
delineated wetlands, rights-of-way, easements and floodplain areas.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattel or movable property of any kind, and includes any
structure.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the street right-of-way line, and
ordinary high water level, if applicable, at its closest point to any story
level of a building and representing the minimum distance which all or part of
the building is set back from the right-of-way line, or ordinary high water
level.
   CALIPER. The diameter of replacement or new trees measured at a height of 2
feet above the ground level.
   CANOPY, TREE. The horizontal extension of a tree's branches in all
directions from its trunk.
   CERTIFICATE OF SURVEY. A document prepared by a registered land surveyor
which precisely describes area, dimensions and location of a parcel or parcels
of land.
   CITY. The City of Jordan.
   CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT. The development pattern and technique whereby
structures are arranged in closely related groups to make the most efficient
use of the natural amenities of the land, while providing a unified network of
open space and aesthetically pleasing areas and meeting the overall density
regulations of this chapter and the Zoning Ordinance.
   COMMON INTEREST COMMUNITY. A contiguous or noncontiguous real estate within
Minnesota that is subject to an instrument which obligates persons owning a
separately described parcel of the real estate, or occupying a part of the real
estate pursuant to a proprietary lease, by reason of their ownership or
occupancy, to pay for:
      (1)   Real estate taxes levied against;
      (2)   Insurance premiums payable with respect to;
      (3)   Maintenance of; or
      (4)   Construction, maintenance, repair or replacement of improvements
located on 1 or more parcels or parts of the real estate other than the parcel
or part that the person owns or occupies (M.S. § 515B.1-103).
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR. An employee of the city with
responsibilities in matters related to planning for the growth, development and
redevelopment of the city.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A compilation of goals, policy statements, standards,
programs and maps for guiding the physical, social and economic development,
both public and private, of the city and its environs. The plan includes any
unit or part of the plan separately adopted and any amendment to the plan or
parts thereof.
   CONTOUR MAP. A map on which irregularities of land surface are shown by
lines connecting points of equal elevations.
   CONVEYANCE. The sale, trading, donation or offer of sale or other transfer
of land.
   DEFLECTION ANGLE. The angle between a line and the prolongation of the
preceding line.
   DESIGN STANDARDS. The specifications to landowners or subdivides for the
preparation of plats, both preliminary and final, indicating, among other
things, the optimum, minimum or maximum dimensions of such items as right-of-
way, blocks, easements and lots.
   DETENTION BASIN. A facility designed to temporarily store runoff from
rainfall or snow melt, releasing the stored water at a controlled rate until
the basin is empty. The outlet or control structure is located at the bottom of
the facility so that the basin is dry after the runoff event. (See also
DETENTION POND, RETENTION BASIN, and RETENTION POND).
   DETENTION POND. A facility designed to temporarily store runoff from
rainfall or snow melt, releasing the stored water at a controlled rate until
the water has been brought down to a predetermined level. The outlet or control
structure is located in such a way that some water remains in the facility. The
bottom of the facility is usually below water table, or is otherwise
constructed in such a way that standing water remains in the pond year round.
(See also DETENTION BASIN, RETENTION BASIN and RETENTION POND).
   DEVELOPER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or other legal entity submitting an application for the
purpose of land subdivision as defined herein. The developer may be the owner
or authorized agent of the owner of the land to be subdivided.
   DEVELOPMENT. The construction of any public improvement project,
infrastructure, structure, street, or road, or the subdivision of land.
   DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOT. A lot other than a comer lot which has a property line
abutting on 1 street and an opposite property line abutting on another
nonintersecting street.
   DRAINAGE COURSE. A watercourse or surface area for the drainage or
conveyance of surface water.
   DRIP LINE. An imaginary vertical line that extends from the outermost
branches of a tree's canopy to the ground.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the owner of land to the general public or to others
for a specific use of the land.
   ESCROW. The deposition of funds in an account maintained by the city for the
purpose of ensuring fulfillment of certain obligations pursuant to this
chapter.
   FINAL PLAT. A drawing or map of a subdivision, meeting all the requirements
of the city and in such form as is required by the county for purposes of
recording.
   FLOOD RELATED TERMS.
      (1)   100-YEAR FLOOD. A flood which is representative of large regional
floods known to have occurred generally in Minnesota and reasonably
characteristic of what can be expected to occur on an average frequency in the
magnitude of the 100-year recurrence interval as determined by the use of the
100-year flood profile and other supporting technical data in the flood
insurance study, or in any other officially adopted city flood study.
      (2)   ACCESSORY USE or ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A use or structure in the
same lot with, and of a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the
principal use or structure.
      (3)   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. Method of determining the location of
encroachment lines so that the hydraulic capacity of flood plain lands on each
side of a stream are reduced by an equal amount when calculating the increases
in flood stages due to flood plain encroachments.
      (4)   FEMA. The U.S. Federal Emergency Management Agency.
      (5)   FLOOD. A temporary increase in stream flow or stage of a wetland,
pond or lake that results in inundation normally dry areas.
      (6)   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The average frequency, statistically determined,
for which it is expected that a specific flood stage or discharge may be
equaled or exceeded.
      (7)   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain outside of the
floodway. FLOOD FRINGE is synonymous with the term FLOODWAY FRINGE used in the
flood map/boundary and/or flood insurance study of the city.
      (8)   FLOOD HAZARD AREAS. The areas included in the floodway and flood
fringe as indicated on the official zoning map (Shoreland Overlay District) and
the flood hazard boundary map, flood insurance study and/or flood insurance
rate map which have been officially adopted by the city.
      (9)   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP. The most recent flood hazard boundary
map prepared by FEMA for the city, as may be amended.
      (10)   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. The most recent flood insurance rate map
prepared by FEMA for the city, and as applicable and allowed by law, the flood
insurance rate map prepared by FEMA for the County of Scott, as may be amended.
      (11)   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The most recent flood insurance study
prepared for the city by FEMA and, as applicable and allowed by law, the flood
insurance study prepared by FEMA for the County of Scott, as may be amended.
      (12)   FLOOD PLAIN. The areas adjoining a watercourse which have been or
hereafter may be covered by the 100-year flood as determined by the use of the
100-year flood profile and other supporting technical data in the flood
insurance study, or in any other officially adopted city flood study. The FLOOD
PLAIN includes the floodway and the flood fringe.
      (13)   FLOODPROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes or
adjustments to properties and structures subject to flooding primarily for the
reduction or elimination of flood damages to properties, water and sanitary
facilities, structures and contents of buildings in a flood hazard area in
accordance with the Minnesota State Building Code.
      (14)   FLOODWAY. The channel of the watercourse and those portions of the
adjoining flood plains which are reasonably required to carry and discharge the
regional flood determined by the use of the 100-year flood profile and other
supporting technical data in the flood insurance study, or in any other
officially adopted city flood study. The floodway shall remain free of
encroachment so that the 100 year flood can be carried without a rise in
surface water elevation of more than 0.5 feet at any point.
      (15)   FLOODWAY FRINGE. The area between the floodway and the outer edge
of the 100-year flood plain boundary that could be completely obstructed during
a 100-year flood without a rise in surface water elevation of more than 1.0
feet at any point.
      (16)   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile,
abutment, projection, excavation, channel rectification, culvert, building,
wire, fence, stockpile, refuse, fill, structure or matter in, along, across or
projecting into any channel, watercourse or regulatory flood hazard area which
may impede, retard or change the direction of the flow of water, either by
itself or by catching or collecting debris carried by such water, or that is
placed where the flow of water might carry the same downstream to the damage of
life or property.
      (17)   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal
segment of a stream or river influenced by a natural or manmade obstruction. In
an urban area, the segment of a stream or river between 2 consecutive bridge
crossings would be typical of a reach.
      (18)   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION. A point not less than 1
foot above the water surface profile associated with the 100-year flood as
determined by the use of the 100-year flood profile and supporting technical
data in the flood insurance study plus any increase in flood heights
attributable to encroachments on the flood plain. It is the elevation to which
uses regulated by this chapter are required to be elevated or floodproofed.
      (19)   STRUCTURE. Anything erected with a fixed location on the ground,
or attached to something having a fixed location on the ground or in the ground
in the case of earth sheltered buildings. Among other things, structures
include buildings, factories, sheds, detached garages, cabins, manufactured
homes, walls, fences, billboards, poster panels and other similar items.
   GROWTH DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The Comprehensive plan and/or utility plans adopted
by the city providing for organized planned development of the city including
general provision for extension of utilities and public facilities.
   HYDRIC SOIL. For the purposes of this chapter, hydric soils shall include:
Hydric soils as shown on the Scott County Geographic Information System (GIS);
or land inside the 100 year floodplain area, as determined by the county, using
2 foot contour surveys of relevant areas; or a field delineation of the hydric
soils by a registered soil scientist following the criteria found in the United
States Army Corps of Engineers Wetland Delineation Manual (1987 Manual) or the
Natural Resource Conservation Service publication Field Indicators of Hydric
Soils in the United States.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Pavement, curbs, gutters, sidewalks, sewer and water
facilities, drainage facilities, street signs, street lighting, plantings and
other items for the welfare of property owners and/or the general public.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row or block.
   LAND DISTURBING ACTIVITIES. Any change of the land surface including
removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, grading, stockpiling soil, and
the construction of any structure that may cause or contribute to erosion, or
the movement of sediment into water bodies. The use of land for new and
continuing agricultural activities shall not constitute a land disturbing
activity under this chapter.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
building development or for transfer of ownership.
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described, as of the effective date of this chapter, or approved by the city as
a lot subsequent to such date, and which is occupied by or intended for
occupancy by 1 principal use, together with any accessory buildings or the open
spaces as required by this chapter and having its principal frontage on a
street, or a proposed street approved by the Council.
   METES AND BOUNDS. A description of real property which is not described by
reference to a lot or block shown on a map, but is described by starting at a
known point and describing the bearings and distances of the lines forming the
boundaries of the property or delineating a fractional portion of a section,
lot or area by described lines or portions thereof.
   MINOR SUBDIVISION. The division of a single parcel, lot, or tract, into 2
separate parcels, lots, or tracts.
   NATURAL WATERWAY. A natural passageway in the surface of the earth so
situated and having such a topographical nature that surface or percolating
water flows through it from other areas before reaching a final ponding area.
The term shall also include all drainage structures that have been constructed
or placed for the purpose of conveying surface water from 1 place to another.
   NORMAL WATER LEVEL (NWL). For a reservoir with a fixed overflow, the NWL is
the lowest crest level of that overflow. For a reservoir whose outflow is
controlled wholly or partly by movable gates, siphons or other means, it is the
maximum level to which water may rise under normal operating conditions,
exclusive of any provision for flood storage. For a closed depression wetland,
it is the maximum level to which the water may rise under normal precipitation
conditions exclusive of any provision for flood storage.
   OFFICIAL MAP. The map adopted by the City Council showing the streets,
highways, blocks and lots theretofore laid out resulting from the approval of
subdivision plats and the subsequent filing of the approved plats.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER LEVEL. The boundary of public waters and wetlands, and
shall be an elevation delineating the highest water level which has been
maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence upon the
landscape, commonly that point where the natural vegetation changes from
predominantly aquatic to predominantly terrestrial. For watercourses, the
ordinary high water level is the elevation of the top of the bank of the
channel. For reservoirs and flowage, the ordinary high water level is the
operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
   OUTLOT. A lot remnant or parcel of land left over after platting, which is
intended as open space or other future use, for which no building permit shall
be issued.
   OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, trust or
any other legal entity having proprietary interest in the land.
   PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS and PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Public lands and local open spaces
in the city dedicated for or reserved for recreation and conservation purposes.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across a block or within a
block to provide access to be used by pedestrians and others and which may be
used for the installation of utility lines.
   PERCENTAGE OF GRADE ON STREET CENTERLINE. The distance vertically (up or
down) from the horizontal in feet and tenths of a foot for each 100 feet of
horizontal distance.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land planned and developed to encourage
a more creative and efficient development of land, while at the same time
meeting the standards and purposes of the Comprehensive Plan for preserving the
health, safety and welfare of the City of Jordan, to allow for a mixture of
residential units or residential and commercial units in an integrated and
well-planned area and to ensure the concentration of open space into more
usable areas and preservation of natural resources of the site including
wetlands, steep slopes, vegetation, and scenic areas.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A preliminary drawing or map of a proposed subdivision
meeting requirements herein enumerated.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANTS. Contracts made between private parties as to the
manner in which land may be used, with a view to protecting and preserving the
physical, social and economic integrity of any given area.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, street, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, water system, sidewalk, pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-
street parking area, street lights, lot improvement or other facility for which
the city may ultimately assume ownership, responsibility for maintenance and
operation, or which may affect an improvement, for which local government
responsibility is or may be established.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Any waters as defined in M.S. Chapters 103A to 103G, as may
be amended.
   RETENTION POND. A facility designed to store runoff from rainfall or
snowmelt with no outlet. The bottom of the facility is usually below water
table, or is otherwise constructed in such a way that standing water remains in
the pond year round. (Also referred to as: detention basin, detention pond, or
retention basin).
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land acquired by reservation or dedication intended for public
use, and intended to be occupied or which is occupied by a street, trail,
railroad, utility lines, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary sewer, storm
sewer or other similar uses.
   ROADWAY. The portion of street right-of-way improved for vehicular travel.
   SETBACK. The distance between a building and the property line nearest
thereto.
   SIGNIFICANT TREE. Any healthy deciduous tree (except Russian Olive,
Cottonwood, Box Elder, Mulberry and Elm) having a diameter of 6 inches or
greater, when measured 2 feet from the ground or a coniferous tree measuring 4
inches in diameter or greater, when measured 2 feet from the ground.
   SKETCH PLAN. A sketch drawing or map which depicts a proposed subdivision by
showing proposed lots, streets, use, relationship to surrounding area,
generalized natural features, any requested zoning change and other information
required by this chapter for review by the city.
   SPECIMEN TREE. A particularly impressive or unusual example of a species due
to its size, shape, age or other trait that epitomizes the character of the
species.
   STEEP SLOPE. Lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over
horizontal distances of 50 feet or more, that are not bluffs.
   STORM WATER QUALITY POND. A created ponding area per W. W. Walker (1987)
criteria that provides a permanent pool for the purpose of sediment and
pollutant removal to reduce water quality impacts of urban development.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY. A public or private thoroughfare with a minimum right-
of-way width 60 feet, subject to the City Engineer's discretion, which is used
or intended to be used for passage or travel by motor vehicles. Streets are
further classified by the functions they perform.
      (1)   ALLEY. A thoroughfare through the middle of a block giving access
to the rear of lots or buildings.
      (2)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only 1 outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC, TEMPORARY. A temporary turn around whose purpose is to
allow the safe and convenient reversal of traffic, until such time that the
street is extended.
      (4)   EYEBROW. A local street with a partial paved circle, usually for
the purpose of providing additional frontage to lots.
      (5)   FRONTAGE. A public or private street intended for the collection of
traffic that would otherwise directly access minor or major collectors or
arterial roadways whose function is the provide access to streets of higher
classification.
      (6)   LOCAL STREET. A roadway with traffic volumes generally less than
2,500 vehicle trips per day containing 1 lane of traffic in each direction
whose primary function is to provide access to and from property.
      (7)   MAJOR COLLECTOR. A roadway that links residential and commercial
uses with a balance between mobility and access and whose function is to
provide traffic circulation within the city and access to and from minor and
major arterials.
      (8)   MINOR ARTERIAL. An interregional road containing 1 or 2 lanes in
each direction with limited access and controlled intersections at other
arterials and collector streets. Minor arterials convey traffic between towns,
boroughs or other urban centers. Efficient movement is the primary function of
a minor arterial road. Provisions for turning around on the lot must be
provided to avoid backing onto a minor arterial.
      (9)   LOCAL COLLECTOR. A roadway whose primary function is to provide
access to and from major collectors and local streets.
      (10)   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A path along the side of a roadway.
      (11)   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A limited access interregional arterial route
containing 2 or more lanes in each direction. They are designed exclusively for
unrestricted movement, have no private access, and intersect only with selected
arterial highways or major streets by means of interchanges engineered for
freeflowing movement.
      (12)   PRIVATE STREET. A street serving as vehicular access to 2 or more
parcels of land which is not dedicated to the public and which is owned,
maintained and repaired by 1 or more private parties.
      (13)   TRAIL. A path with a surface used for travel.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the edges of the traveled
roadway if there is no curb, or between the faces of the curb with a minimum of
24 feet, subject to the City Engineer's discretion.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires a location on the
ground or attached to something having a location on the ground, portable
structures, earthen structures, water and storage systems, drainage facilities
and parking lots.
   SUBDIVIDER. An individual, partnership, or corporation which submits a plat
for the purpose of land subdivision as defined herein. The subdivider shall be
either the fee owner of the land to be subdivided or an authorized agent of
said owner.
   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided
into 2 or more lots or parcels, any of which resultant parcels is less than 10
acres in area, for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development
or, if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel or land. The term
includes resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates either to
the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   SUBDIVISION DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The documents containing all the plans and
specifications to construct all the required public improvements and to make
the subdivision suitable for development and consisting of sanitary sewer mains
and services, street grading, paving and concrete curb and gutter plans, storm
sewer plans, water main and service connection plans, sidewalk and trail plans,
boulevard sodding and street tree plan identifying location and size and
species, street sign and poles plan, decorative street lighting plans, and
final grade for the lots and property within the subdivision.
   TANGENT. A straight line which is perpendicular to the radius of a curve at
a point on the curve.
   TREE INVENTORY. An inventory of all significant trees and wooded lots in an
area of development, to include specimen trees.
   URBAN DESIGN. A street design where adjacent property and right-of-way are
graded to the edge of pavement or to the top of a curb without need for ditch
construction. Surface drainage is primarily carried by the paved street
section.
   URBAN SERVICE AREA. That portion of the city, as geographically defined by
the Comprehensive Plan, which is or has the future potential for development at
urban densities and/or urban uses and in which urban improvements may be
required.
   VARIANCE. A modification or variation from the literal provisions of the
chapter where it is determined that their strict enforcement would cause
practical difficulties to a specific piece of property. The Board of Adjustment
and Appeals, as defined in this chapter, may grant such variances. A variance
shall not be granted allowing a use prohibited in the district in which the
structure, use and lot are located.
   VERTICAL CURVE. The surface curvature on a street centerline located between
lines of different percentage of grade.
   VICINITY MAP. A small-scale map that definitively shows the area proposed to
be platted in relation to known geographic features (e.g. regional features,
adjacent subdivisions, rivers or waterways and streets).
   WETLAND. Any wetland as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 19.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The ordinance or resolution controlling the use of land as
adopted by the city.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005; Am. Ord. 96, Second Series, passed 8-7-2006; Am.
Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-19-2014; Am. Ord.
2014-011, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 153.03 SCOPE OF LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   This chapter is not intended to repeal, annul, or in any way impair or
interfere with existing provisions of other laws, ordinances or with
restrictive covenants running with the land except those specifically repealed
by or in conflict with this chapter. Every division of land for the purpose of
lease or sale into 2 or more lots, parcels or tracts within the incorporated
area of the City of Jordan or any combination of 2 or more lots shall proceed
in compliance with this chapter. It is the purpose of this chapter to make
certain regulations and requirements for the platting of land within the city
pursuant to the authority contained in M.S. Chapters 412, 429, 471, and 505,
which regulations the City Council deems necessary for the health, safety,
general welfare, convenience and good order of this community.
   (B)   The city shall have the power and authority to review and approve
amendments to subdivisions of land already recorded and on file with Scott
County.
   (C)   The City of Jordan has adopted a comprehensive plan for the future
physical development and improvement of the city pursuant to M.S. §§
462.351–432.3535, and finds it necessary to regulate the division of land for
future development and use. The city finds that the public health, safety and
general welfare require that the division of land into 2 or more parcels
requires regulation to assure adequate space, light and air; to provide proper
ingress and egress to property; to facilitate adequate provision for water,
waste disposal, fire protection, open space, schools, public uses and adequate
streets and highways; and to assure uniform monumenting, legal description and
conveyance of subdivided land. The Minnesota Statutes authorize municipalities
to so regulate the subdivision and platting of land pursuant to M.S. §§
412.221, Subd. 32, and 462.358.
   (D)   The City of Jordan hereby extends the application of its subdivision
regulations to unincorporated territory located within the radius identified by
Res. 11-67-2023, but not in a town which has adopted subdivision regulations
pursuant to M.S. § 462.358, Subd. 1A.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005; Am. Ord. 2024-02, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 153.04 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Subdivision Ordinance of the City of
Jordan” and is referred to herein as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005)
§ 153.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A cemetery or burial plot while used for that purpose;
   (B)   Any division of land made by testamentary provision, the laws of
descent, or upon court order;
   (C)   A parcel which was the subject of a written agreement to convey (such
as a purchase agreement), entered into prior to the effective date of this
chapter;
   (D)   Conveyance of the land described: Was a separate parcel of not less
than 2-1/2 acres in area and 150 feet in width on January 1, 1966; or was a
separate parcel of not less than 5 acres in area and 300 feet in width on July
1, 1980; or is a single parcel of commercial or industrial land of not less
than 5 acres and having a width of not less than 300 feet and its conveyance
does not result in the division of the parcel into 2 or more lots or parcels,
any 1 of which is less than 5 acres in area or 300 feet in width; or is a
single parcel of residential or agricultural land of not less than 20 acres and
having a width of not less than 500 feet and its conveyance does not result in
the division of the parcel into 2 or more lots or parcels, any 1 of which is
less than 20 acres in area or 500 feet in width.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005)
§ 153.06 GENERAL PLATTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Established monuments. All federal, state, county and other official
monuments, bench marks, triangulation points, and stations shall be preserved
in their precise location; and it shall be the responsibility of the
subdivider-developer to insure that these markers are maintained in good
condition during construction and development. All section, quarter section,
and sixteenth section covers shall be duly described and tied.
   (B)   Land suitability for subdivision. The City Council, following
consultation with the Planning Commission, must find each lot created through
subdivision suitable for land subdivision in its normal state for the proposed
use with minimal alteration. Suitability analysis by the city shall consider
flooding, existence of wetlands, inadequate drainage, steep slopes, rock
formations or other features with severe limitations for development, severe
erosion potential, steep topography, important fish and wildlife habitat, near-
shore aquatic conditions unsuitable for water-based recreation, presence of
significant historic sites, environmental hazards which cannot be corrected, or
any other feature of the natural land likely to be harmful to the safety,
welfare or general health of future residents, or land which could not be
adequately served by utilities or other public facilities or public access; the
land shall not be subdivided unless adequate methods are provided for
overcoming such conditions; or the land is platted as outlots.
   (C)   Preservation of natural features. The Planning Commission may request
the dedication of or preservation of any existing natural features in order to
preserve any trees, groves, water courses, historic sites, vistas and similar
irreplaceable assets which add value to all developments and to the city as a
whole.
   (D)   Land subject to flooding. No plat shall be approved for any
subdivision which covers an area subject to periodic flooding or which is
otherwise poorly drained unless the subdivider-developer agrees to make
improvements which will, in the opinion of the City Council, make the area
completely safe for occupancy, and provide adequate street and lot drainage and
conform to applicable regulations of other agencies such as the U.S. Corps of
Engineers and the Department of Natural Resources. In addition, such plats may
not be approved if the cost of providing essential services to protect the
flood plain area would impose an unreasonable economic burden upon the city.
   (E)   Land descriptions, Minnesota coordinate system zones. As established
for use in the South Zone, the Minnesota Coordinate System of 1927 or the
Minnesota Coordinate System of 1983 shall be named, and in any land description
in which it is used it shall be designated the “Minnesota Coordinate System of
1927, South Zone” or the “Minnesota Coordinate System of 1983, South Zone.” The
National Ocean Survey/National Geodetic Survey definitions for the Minnesota
Coordinate System, Central Zones, as identified in M.S. § 505.22 are hereby
adopted by reference.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005)
§ 153.07 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Application. This section shall apply to the following applications in
residential districts:
      (1)   In the case of a request to divide a portion of a lot where the
division is to permit the adding of a parcel of land to an abutting lot so that
no additional lots are created and both new lots conform to Zoning Ordinance
minimum lot size, setback and lot coverage standards;
      (2)   In the case of a request to combine 2 existing platted lots;
      (3)   To qualify, the parcel of land shall not have been part of a minor
subdivision within the last 5 years;
      (4)   In the case of a request to divide a base lot which is a part of a
recorded plat on which has been constructed a 2-family dwelling, townhouse or
quadraminium, where the division is to permit individual private ownership of a
single dwelling unit within such a structure and the newly created property
lines will not cause any of the unit lots or the structure to be in violation
of this chapter, the Zoning Ordinance, or the state’s Building Code.
   (B)   Content and data requirements.
      (1)   The requested minor subdivision shall be prepared by a registered
land surveyor in the form of a certificate of survey.
      (2)   The data and supportive information detailing the proposed
subdivision shall be as follows:
         (a)   Certificate of survey.
            1.   If the property affected is registered land, a Registered Land
Survey shall be required. Ten copies of the survey (11” x 17”) and 1
reproducible copy (8-1/2” x 11”) shall be submitted to the City Administrator
or designee not less than 2 weeks prior to the next Planning Commission
meeting.
            2.   Contents of the certificate of survey shall include:
               a.   North arrow;
               b.   Lot sizes in square feet, prior to and after the proposed
split;
               c.   Existing buildings and setbacks from proposed lot lines;
               d.   Tree cover;
               e.   Legal descriptions for the parcels to be created; and
               f.   Streets and easements.
         (b)   Additional information. In addition to the certificate of
survey, the applicant shall submit:
            1.   A special assessment search;
            2.   Property owners’ names and addresses and proof of ownership;
            3.   Zoning of all affected parcels;
         (c)   The minor subdivision shall conform to all design standards as
specified in this chapter. Any proposed deviation from said standards shall
require the processing of a variance request.
   (C)   Processing of request for minor subdivision approval.
      (1)   All other minor subdivision requests shall be approved by the City
Council following consultation with the Planning Commission. Upon review by the
Planning Commission and/or City Council, the full platting process may be
required if additional information is deemed necessary.
      (2)   Upon execution of the Council’s resolution approving the petition
for a minor subdivision, the City Administrator shall be authorized to sign the
deed or registered land survey as meeting the requirements of the city. The
certificate of survey or Registered Land Survey shall be filed and recorded at
the Office of the County Recorder within 30 days of approval.
      (3)   One digital copy of the minor subdivision shall be submitted to the
city on disk.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005)
§ 153.08 PREMATURE SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Any preliminary plat of a proposed subdivision deemed premature for
development shall be denied by the City Council except under the provisions of
§
153.16(C).
   (B)   A subdivision may be deemed premature should any one or more of the
conditions set forth in the following provisions exist:
      (1)   Lack of adequate drainage. Factors to be considered in determining
a lack of adequate drainage shall include, but shall not be limited to: average
rainfall for the area; the relation of the land to flood plains; the nature of
soils and subsoils and their ability to adequately support surface water runoff
and waste disposal systems; the slope of the land and its effect on effluents;
and the presence of streams as related to effluent disposal. A condition of
inadequate drainage shall be deemed to exist if:
         (a)   Surface or subsurface water retention/detention and runoff is
such that it constitutes a danger to the structural security of the proposed
development, or flood of the subdivision or downstream property.
         (b)   The proposed subdivision will cause pollution of water sources
or damage from erosion and siltation on downhill or downstream land.
         (c)   The proposed site grading and development will cause siltation
on downstream land.
      (2)   Lack of adequate water supply. A proposed subdivision shall be
deemed to lack an adequate water supply if the proposed subdivision does not
have adequate sources of water or treatment capacity to serve the proposed
subdivision if developed to its maximum permissible density without causing an
unreasonable depreciation of existing water supplies for surrounding areas.
      (3)   Lack of adequate roads or highways to serve the subdivision. A
proposed subdivision shall be deemed to lack adequate roads or highways to
serve the subdivision when:
         (a)   Roads which serve the proposed subdivision are of such a width,
grade, stability, vertical and horizontal alignment, site distance and surface
condition that an increase in traffic volume generated by the proposed
subdivision would create a hazard to public safety and general welfare, or
aggravate an already hazardous condition, and when, with due regard to the
advice of the City Engineer, Scott County Highway Engineer and/or the Minnesota
Department of Transportation, the roads are inadequate for the intended use; or
         (b)   The traffic volume generated by the proposed subdivision would
create unreasonable traffic congestion or unsafe conditions on highways
existing at the time of the application or proposed for completion within the
next 2 years.
      (4)   Lack of adequate waste disposal systems. A proposed subdivision
shall be deemed to lack adequate waste disposal systems if:
         (a)   In subdivisions for which sewer lines are proposed, there is
inadequate sewer capacity in the present system to support the subdivision if
developed to its maximum permissible density indicated in the Jordan
Comprehensive Plan, as may be amended.
         (b)   Soil tests, drain field areas or other such factors relating to
on-site waste disposal systems are judged as inadequate for the use proposed.
      (5)   Providing public improvements/protective services. If public
improvements, such as recreational facilities, streets and utilities,
reasonably necessitated by the subdivision, which must be provided at public
expense, and/or public protection services such as police, fire and emergency
medical service cannot be provided within the next 2 fiscal years.
      (6)   Threat to environmentally essential areas. The proposed subdivision
is inconsistent with policies and standards of the city, the county, the state,
or federal government relating to environmentally sensitive areas and
protections.
      (7)   Inconsistency with Comprehensive Plan. The proposed subdivision is
inconsistent with the purposes, objectives and recommendations of the duly
adopted Comprehensive Plan of Jordan, as may be amended.
   (C)   The burden shall be upon the applicant to show that the proposed
subdivision is not premature
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005; Am. Ord. 2024-02, passed 3-11-2024)
  § 153.09 DISQUALIFICATION AND/OR DENIAL OF PLATS.
   The City Council may deny the subdivision if it makes any 1 or more of the
following findings:
   (A)   That the proposed subdivision is in direct conflict with adopted
applicable general and specific comprehensive plans of the city, county, or
region;
   (B)   That the physical characteristics of the site, including but not
limited to topography, percolation rate, soil conditions, susceptibility to
erosion and siltation, susceptibility to flooding, water storage, drainage and
retention, are such that the site is not suitable for the type of development,
design, or use contemplated;
   (C)   That the site is not physically suitable for the proposed density of
development;
   (D)   That the designs of the subdivision or the type of improvements are
likely to cause serious public health problems;
   (E)   That the design of the subdivision or the proposed improvements are
likely to cause substantial environmental damage;
   (F)   That the design of the subdivision or the type of improvements will
conflict with easements of record or with easements established by judgment of
a court;
   (G)   That the proposed subdivision, its site, or its design adversely
affects the flood-carrying capacity of the floodway, increases flood stages and
velocities, or increases flood hazards within the floodway fringe or within
other areas of the city; and
   (H)   The proposed subdivision is inconsistent with the policies and
standards of the state defined Shoreland Districts and Wetland Districts.
   (I)   The city shall not deny approval of a subdivision based solely on an
inadequate supply of parks, open spaces, trails or recreational facilities
within the municipality.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005; Am. Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-19-2014)
§ 153.10 SHORELAND/FLOODPRONE LANDS.
   (A)   Warning and disclaimer of liability for flooding. This chapter does
not imply that areas outside flood plain areas or land uses permitted within
such districts will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall
not create liability on the part of the City of Jordan or any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decisions lawfully made thereunder. No
responsibility or liability shall arise from the design or operation of
subdivision drainage facilities dedicated to the City of Jordan until the city
has accepted the dedication.
   (B)   Subdivision flooding and flood control. No land shall be subdivided if
the City Council finds the land unsuitable for subdividing due to flooding and/
or inadequate drainage, water supply, or sewage treatment facilities in
accordance with this chapter and the Zoning Ordinance. Any building sites on
lots within the flood plain district shall be at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation in accordance with this chapter and the Zoning Ordinance.
All subdivisions shall have water supply and sewer disposal facilities that
comply with the provisions of this chapter and any applicable building, health
or safety codes, including the Minnesota State Building Code. All subdivisions
shall have road access both to the subdivision and to the individual building
sites no lower than 2 feet below the regulatory flood protection elevation.
Each of the above requirements shall take into consideration the 100-year flood
profile and other supporting material data in the Special Flood Hazard Boundary
Map, Flood Insurance Study and/or the Flood Insurance Rate Map.
   (C)   Public utilities. All public utilities and facilities such as gas,
electrical, telephone, sewer, and water supply systems to be located in the
flood plain shall be elevated or floodproofed in accordance with the Minnesota
State Building Code to an elevation no lower than the regulatory flood
protection elevation, in accordance with state and federal agency regulations
and the city’s Zoning Ordinance Shoreland Overlay District.
   (D)   Public transportation facilities.
      (1)   Railroad tracks, roads and bridges to be located within the
Shoreland Overlay District, as defined by the city’s Zoning Ordinance, shall
comply with this chapter and the Zoning Ordinance. Elevation to the regulatory
flood protection elevation shall be provided where failure and interruption of
these transportation facilities would result in danger to the public health or
safety or where the facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the
area.
      (2)   Minor or auxiliary railroad tracks, roads, or bridges may be
constructed at a lower elevation where failure or interruption of
transportation services would not endanger the public health or safety and as
long as the construction is in accordance with the rules and regulations of the
Minnesota Department of Natural Resources or other state agencies; the Federal
Emergency Management Agency or other federal agencies; and/or the city’s Zoning
Ordinance Shoreland Overlay District.
   (E)   Conformance. Plats within the Shoreland or Floodplain areas shall
conform with
Chapter 154 of the Jordan City Code.
   (F)   Platting. For all subdivisions in the floodplain, the Floodway and
Flood Fringe District boundaries, the regulatory flood protection elevation and
the required elevation of all access roads must be clearly labeled on all
required subdivision drawings and platting documents.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005; Am. Ord. 96, Second Series, passed 8-7-2006; Am.
Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 153.11 DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   The design standards are intended to assure that the layout of the
proposed subdivision is consistent with existing plans affecting the property
and surrounding area and that it is in conformance with city plans.
      (2)   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the Comprehensive Plan,
Growth Development Plan, zoning provisions of the City Code, the design
standards contained in this section, and other provisions of this chapter. The
design standards and features set forth in this section are minimum
requirements. The city may impose additional or more stringent requirements
concerning lot size, streets and overall design as deemed appropriate
considering the nature of the surrounding conditions.
      (3)   The preliminary plat must cover all of the owner's contiguous land,
but the final plat may cover only a portion of the preliminary plat provided it
is in conformance with an approved preliminary plat and other requirements
herein.
      (4)   Where the parcel is subdivided into 1 or more tracts larger than
for building lots appropriate for the zoning district and the area, the parcels
shall be divided so as to allow for the opening of major streets and the
ultimate extension of adjacent minor streets.
      (5)   Subdivisions showing unplatted strips or private easements
controlling access to public ways shall not receive approval. However, at or
adjacent to the city's municipal line the city may allow or require a boulevard
reserve or other appropriate control to provide a buffer wherever necessary or
appropriate to control access to the city's right-of-way.
      (6)   Any preliminary plat of a proposed subdivision deemed premature for
development shall be denied by the City Council except under the provisions of
§
153.16(C).
   (B)   Streets and alleys.
      (1)   The arrangement of arterial and collector streets shall conform as
nearly as possible to the Comprehensive Plan. Arterial and collector streets
shall connect with streets already dedicated in adjoining or adjacent
subdivisions or provide for future connections to adjoining unsubdivided
tracts. The arrangement of arterial and collector streets shall be considered
in relation to the reasonable circulation of traffic, to topographic
conditions, natural features, to run-off of storm water, to public convenience
and safety, and in appropriate relation to the proposed use of the area to be
served.
      (2)   Local streets should be so planned as to discourage their use by
non-local traffic. Dead end streets are prohibited, but cul-de-sacs will be
permitted where topography, design and other conditions justify their use. Cul-
de-sacs shall not be longer than 500 feet, measured along the centerline from
the intersection of origin to the center of the cul-de-sac. Each cul-de-sac
shall have a terminus of nearly circular shape with a minimum right-of-way
diameter of 120 feet and a minimum radius to face of curb of 45 feet. The
property line at the intersection of the turnaround and the straight portion of
the street shall be rounded as a radius of not less than 20 feet. An easement
may be required to allow for snow removal and storage or other public purpose.
      (3)   Temporary dead-end streets shall be improved with an approved turn-
around or temporary cul-de-sac for the purpose of providing turn around access
for emergency vehicles, buses and general traffic. An approved sign shall be
installed designating the cul-de-sac or turn around as temporary in nature.
      (4)   (a)   For all public ways hereafter dedicated and accepted, the
minimum right-of-way widths, paved widths and construction requirements for all
streets shall be as shown in the Comprehensive Plan; where existing or
anticipated traffic on arterial streets warrants greater widths of right-of-
way, these shall be required; where not shown therein, the minimum right-of-way
width for all streets, alleys or pedestrian ways included in any subdivision
shall not be less than the minimum dimensions for each classification as
follows:
Street R/W* Width* Radii Strength Curb Radius
Street             R/W*    Width* Radii   Strength Curb Radius
Principal Arterial 120 ft. Design Design  10-ton   25
Minor Arterial     120 ft. 44 ft. Design  10-ton   25
Major Collector    100 ft. 66 ft. 200 ft. 10-ton   25
Local Collector    80 ft.  40 ft. 200 ft. 10-ton   25
Local Street       68 ft.  36 ft. 200 ft. 7-ton    15
Cul-de-sac         120 ft.              10-ton   15
Frontage           50 ft.  36 ft. 200 ft. 10-ton    
Trail              25 ft.  8 ft.  N/A     7-ton     
Pedestrian Way     25 ft.  6 ft.  N/A     N/A       
Alley              25 ft.                        
 
         (b)   *Street width is face to face.
         (c)   Principal and minor arterials shall be designed to 9-ton for
winter carryover; they shall assume their 10-ton capacity rating when the final
layers of surfacing have been placed.
         (d)   Major and local collector streets shall be designed to 9-ton for
winter carryover; they shall assume their 10-ton capacity rating when the final
layers of surfacing have been placed. Local streets shall be designed to 5-ton
for winter carryover; they shall assume their 7-ton capacity rating when the
final layers of surfacing have been placed.
      (5)   Minimum design standards for collector and arterial streets shall
comply with Minnesota State Aid Design Standards.
      (6)   Roadway access standards shall be as follows:
 
Driveway Dimensions      Residential                  Commercial or Industrial
                        Urban                        Urban
Driveway Access Width    22', 16' desired             6' — 32', 32' desired
Minimum Distance Between 20'                          20'
Driveways
Minimum Distance Between 5' unless there is a common
Driveways for Twin homes driveway or access easements NA
                         are provided for
Minimum Corner Clearance 60'                          80', at the discretion of
from a Collector Street                               the City Engineer
Minimum Corner Clearance
from a Local Street or   20'                          20'
Frontage Road
 
      (7)   Access spacing guidelines:
 
Type of Access by Land Use Type           Major Collector Minor Collector
Low and Medium Density Residential
Private Access                            Not Permitted   As Needed
Minimum Corner Clearance from a Collector 660'            300'
Street
Commercial, Industrial or High Density Residential
Private Access                            Not Permitted   As Needed
Minimum Corner Clearance from a Collector 660'            660'
Street
 
         (a)   These guidelines apply to city streets only. Scott County and
Mn/DOT have access authority for roadways under their jurisdiction. Please
refer to Scott County's minimum access spacing guidelines identified in their
current Transportation Plan.
         (b)   Access to major collectors is limited to public street access.
Steps should be taken to redirect private accesses on major collectors to other
local streets. New private access to major collectors is not permitted unless
deemed necessary.
         (c)   Private access to minor collectors is to be evaluated by other
factors. Whenever possible, residential access should be directed to non-
continuous streets rather than minor collector roadways. Commercial/industrial
properties are encouraged to provide common accesses with adjacent properties
when access is located on the minor collector system. Cross-traffic between
adjacent compatible properties is to be accommodated when feasible. A minimum
spacing between accesses of 660; in commercial, industrial, or high density
residential areas is encouraged for the development of turn lanes and driver
decision reaction areas.
      (8)   Roadway design speed guidelines:
 
Functional Classification Design Speed
Minor Collector Street    30 mph
Major Collector Roadway   30 - 40 mph
Minor Arterial Roadway    45 - 55 mph
 
         (a)   At the discretion of the City Engineer for city roadways, with
approval by the City Council.
   (C)   Street grades.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum grade on all streets of not less than
0.5%, and wherever possible grades within 30 feet of a local street
intersection with arterial and collector streets shall not exceed 3%. The
grades in all streets, in any subdivision shall not be greater than the maximum
grades for each classification as follows:
         (a)   Arterial street: 5%.
         (b)   Collector street: 6%.
         (c)   Local street: 7%.
      (2)   Where horizontal street lines within a block deflect from each
other more than 10 degrees at any 1 point, there shall be a connecting curve
with a radius adequate to ensure a sight distance of not less than 200 feet for
local and collector streets and of such greater radii as the city shall
determine for arterial and other special cases. A tangent of at least 100 feet
shall be introduced between reverse curves on arterial and collector streets
and 50 feet on other streets.
      (3)   The length of vertical curves shall be in accordance with the
American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials Green Book,
also known as the AASHTO Green Book.
      (4)   All proposed streets shall be offered for dedication as public
streets. No private streets shall be permitted except as set further in the
Zoning chapter of the City Code.
      (5)   Under normal conditions, streets shall be laid out so as to
intersect as nearly as possible at right angles, except where topography or
other conditions justify variation as determined by the city. The minimum angle
of intersection of streets shall be 80 degrees. Street intersection jogs with
an offset of less than 125 feet shall be prohibited.
      (6)   Wherever a proposed residential subdivision contains or is adjacent
to the right-of-way of an arterial or limited access highway, the layout of
lots shall be an arterial or limited access highway, the layout of lots shall
be designed to provide access to the lots from local streets or collector
streets serving lots on both sides of the street and not from the arterial
street or highway. In commercial or industrial subdivisions, provision may be
made for a marginal access street approximately parallel to and adjacent to the
boundary of the arterial or limited access highway. An alternative is to
provide a street at a distance suitable for the appropriate use of land between
such street and the right-of-way of the arterial or limited access highway. The
distance shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance
required for approach connections to future grade separations, grade crossings
or for lot depth. The city shall decide which design alternative is the more
suitable.
      (7)   Wherever a proposed residential subdivision contains or is adjacent
to the right-of-way of a collector street, the layout of lots shall be designed
to provide access to the lots from local streets serving lots on both sides of
the street and not from the collector street.
      (8)   Dedication of streets having only half of the required width shall
not be approved except where it is essential to the reasonable development of
the subdivision and in conformity with the other requirements of these
regulations. Dedication of such streets may also be allowed where it is found
that it will be practical to require the dedication of the other half when the
adjoining property is subdivided, or where it becomes necessary to acquire the
remaining half by condemnation so it may be improved in the public interest.
      (9)   When a tract is subdivided into larger than building lots or
parcels, as set forth in the R-1 single-family residence district of the Zoning
Chapter of the City Code, such lots or parcels shall be so arranged as to
permit the logical location and opening of future streets and appropriate re-
subdivision, with provision for adequate utility connections for the re-
subdivision.
      (10)   Alleys shall be allowed only where necessary. Alleys shall be at
least 25 feet wide and allowed where necessary to continue an existing alley or
in commercial areas where adequate off-street loading space is not available.
Alley intersections shall be designed to permit safe vehicular movement, and
sharp changes in alley alignment shall be prohibited. Where necessary, corners
may be cut off sufficiently to permit safe vehicular movement. Dead-end and
cul-de-sac alleys shall be prohibited.
      (11)   Curb and gutter, with adjustments where applicable for handicap
ramps, shall be installed as follows:
         (a)   Local streets: 4-inch surmountable type design (MnDOT 5412).
         (b)   Arterial and collector streets: standard 6-inch rise with an 18
inch wide gutter and known as B618.
      (12)   Where proposed residential lots abut a collector street, they
shall be platted in such a manner as to encourage turn-around access and egress
on each lot and discourage direct access onto the streets.
      (13)   The developer shall install street name identification signs and
traffic signs. The city shall approve the design and location of all signs.
These signs shall be installed before the start of any construction of
structures in the subdivision. While under construction, each residence shall
have house numbers visible from the street to emergency personnel.
   (D)   Street names designation. Streets shall be designated pursuant to
established city standards in compliance with these standards and as approved
by the City Council.
      (1)   Street name pattern. North-south through streets and collector
streets north of First Street shall be numerical with numbers progressing from
south to north (e.g. First Street, Second Street, Third Street with streets
farther north being larger numbers) and end with the suffix "street".
      (2)   Continuance of street name. Existing names of streets which
temporarily dead-end shall be continued when the development adjacent occurs.
Streets which align at an intersection shall also continue with the same name
unless the street makes a definite change in classification.
      (3)   Duplication. Street names which sound alike, are spelled or
pronounced similarly shall not be allowed, (e.g. Rustle Road and Russell Road).
Also, street names which are the same or similar to a street name in an
adjacent township shall be avoided. Also duplication of portions of street
names should be avoided (e.g. River Road, Riverside Lane, River Ridge Circle).
      (4)   Street names which include directions or suffixes. Street names
which include suffixes or directions shall be avoided (e.g. Bay Road, Circle
Drive, East Street) to avoid confusion.
      (5)   Street suffixes. Street suffixes shall be chosen according to the
following standard classification. Additional suffixes not listed below may be
approved by the City Council.
         (a)   Avenue. A street, road or public way which runs in a north-south
direction.
         (b)   Bay. A permanently closed cul-de-sac running in any direction,
in which lots are located that typically back up to a body of water.
         (c)   Boulevard. A street, road or public way which runs in a
southwest to northeast direction.
         (d)   Circle. A secondary street that begins and circles back to end
on the same street, or a permanently closed cul-de-sac.
         (e)   Court. A permanently closed cul-de-sac running in any direction.
         (f)   Drive. A meandering major route.
         (g)   Lane. A short street or street whose name shall be related to,
but not duplicate any part of the base street from which it extends and
returns.
         (h)   Parkway. A meandering major route which offers scenic amenities.
         (i)   Place. A permanently closed cul-de-sac running in any direction.
         (j)   Road. A street, road or public way which runs in a northwest to
southeast direction.
         (k)   Street. A street, road or public way which runs in an east-west
direction.
         (l)   Terrace. A short street.
         (m)   Way. A short street, such as a half-block.
      (6)   Cul-de-sacs.
         (a)   Short cul-de-sacs (7 or less lots) shall use the same name as
the main street it comes off of, with a cul-de-sac suffix added for identity
purposes (e.g. bay, circle, court or place).
         (b)   Long cul-de-sacs (8 or more lots) shall have a different name
from the street it extends from, but use a suffix for a cul-de-sac (e.g. bay,
circle, court or place).
         (c)   Series of cul-de-sacs. In subdivisions where a series of cul-de-
sacs extend off the same primary street, the cul-de-sacs shall be assigned
different street or suffix names which progress in alphabetical order from
south to north (e.g. bay, circle, court, place).
      (7)   Street name amendments. Requests for a street name change shall be
made in writing to the Community Development Director or designee, who shall
proceed with public notice for a public hearing before the Planning Commission
and final action by the City Council. All residents owning property on the
subject street shall be notified of the hearing, along with property owners
within 20 feet of the intersection of their street and the subject street. No
amendments shall be considered for "new" names if the changes are based solely
on the fact the name is "unpopular" with individuals. The application for a
street name change shall include the following:
         (a)   Street name change proposal (from what to what);
         (b)   Location of street (using grid number and letter);
         (c)   Reason(s) for the request in name or number.
   (E)   Streets in flood hazard areas. No street shall be approved if its
final surface is lower than 2 feet above the regulatory flood protection
elevation. The City Council may require profiles and elevations of finished
streets for areas subject to flooding. Fill may be used for streets, provided
such fill does not unduly increase flood heights and provided any such fill
would not result in a stage increase violating the requirements of M.S.
Chapters 103A to 103L, as such chapters may be amended, supplemented, or
replaced from time to time, and any applicable requirements imposed by FEMA
pursuant to its rules and regulations. Drainage openings shall not restrict the
flow of water so as to unduly increase flood heights and provided any such
drainage opening would not violate the requirements of M.S. Chapters 103A to
103G, as such chapters may be amended, supplemented, or replaced from time to
time, and any applicable requirements imposed by FEMA pursuant to its rules and
regulations.
   (F)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall generally be required as follows:
      (1)   Commercial areas and along all collector streets: 6 foot wide
concrete sidewalks shall be located on both sides of the street.
      (2)   Industrial areas: 6 foot wide concrete sidewalks shall be located
on at least 1 side of the street. See division (F)(1) above for collector
street requirements in industrial areas.
      (3)   Residential areas: 6 foot wide concrete sidewalks shall be located
on at least 1 side of all streets, except cul-de-sacs. See division (F)(1)
above for collector street requirements in residential areas.
      (4)   Sidewalks and/or trails may be required in areas identified in the
city's Master Sidewalk and Trail Plan, in addition to or in lieu of sidewalks
and trails identified in division (F)(1), (F)(2) and (F)(3) above.
   (G)   Blocks.
      (1)   Block length. In general, intersecting streets, determining block
lengths, shall be provided at such intervals as to serve cross-traffic
adequately and to meet existing streets. Where no existing plats control, the
blocks in residential subdivisions shall normally not exceed 1,800 feet in
length, except where topography or other conditions justify a departure from
this maximum. Pedestrian ways and/or easements through blocks may be required.
The width and location of the pedestrian ways shall be subject to the approval
of the city.
      (2)   Block width. The width of the block shall normally be sufficient to
allow 2 tiers of lots of appropriate depth. Blocks intended for business or
industrial use shall be of such widths as to be considered most suitable for
their respective use, including adequate space for off-street parking and
deliveries.
   (H)   Lots.
      (1)   The minimum lot area, width and depth shall not be less than that
established by the Zoning Chapter of the City Code.
      (2)   Corner lots for residential use shall have an additional 7 feet of
width to accommodate building setbacks from both streets as defined in the
Zoning Chapter of the City Code.
      (3)   Side lines of lots shall be approximately at right angles to street
lines or radial to curved street lines.
      (4)   Double frontage lots shall be avoided except where lots back to a
thoroughfare or other arterial street or where topographic or other conditions
render subdividing otherwise unreasonable. The double frontage lots shall have
an additional depth of at least 20 feet in order to allow space for screen
plantings along the back lot line.
      (5)   All lots must have at least the minimum required frontage on a
public dedicated street, except as set forth in the Zoning Chapter of the City
Code.
      (6)   All lots must have a minimum of 30 feet in width at the rear lot
line.
      (7)   Lots abutting on a water course, drainage way, channel, stream,
lake or pond shall have an additional depth or width as required to assure
compliance with flood plain and/or shoreland zoning and surface-water
management.
      (8)   Lot remnants which are below the minimum lot size must be added by
the subdivider to adjacent or surrounding lots or be dedicated to the public if
the Council determines a public use can be served rather than be allowed to
remain as an unusable parcel.
      (9)   Lots intended for commercial, industrial or any use other than
single-family residence must be designed as such, and the lot must be of
adequate size to allow off-street parking, loading areas and such other
facilities as are required to satisfy the requirements of the Zoning Chapter of
the City Code.
      (10)   Areas of a lot between the top of bluff and toe of bluff shall not
be developed. Development on steep slopes shall be carefully reviewed to ensure
that adequate measures have been taken to prevent erosion, sedimentation and
structural damage. Slopes shall not be created in excess of 3:1, unless
approved by the City Council. A slope greater than 3:1 may require additional
structural stabilization.
      (11)   Erosion and siltation control measures shall be coordinated with
the different stages of development. Appropriate control measures shall be
installed prior to development when necessary to control erosion.
      (12)   The top of the foundation and the garage floor of all structures
shall be a minimum of 18 inches and a maximum of 36 inches above the grade of
the crown of the street upon which the property fronts. Exceptions to this
standard may be approved by the City Administrator or designee for special
circumstances such as increased setback, site topography, flooding potential,
and the like, provided that proper site and area drainage is maintained and the
elevation of the structure is in keeping with the character of the area. The
City Administrator or designee may require a certificate of survey prior to
building permit issuance to assure compliance with this section if lot pads are
not installed as part of the subdivision process.
      (13)   Building pads shall be designed to meet a setback of 50 feet from
the high water level of all water bodies.
   (I)   Streetlights. Streetlights, at a minimum, shall be spaced as follows:
      (1)   Commercial areas. Decorative style streetlights located on both
sides of the street and spaced not more than 150 feet apart.
      (2)   Industrial areas. Shoe box street lights located at a minimum on 1
side of the street and not more than 200 feet apart.
      (3)   Residential areas. City standard lantern style lights must be
located at all intersections and sharp curves and mid-block, not more than 350
feet apart.
   (J)   Easements.
      (1)   All utilities in all new subdivisions shall be placed underground
unless the subdivision is in an existing platted block or an existing partially
platted block, in which case allowance for placing some utilities above ground
will be considered if overhead utilities are already installed in the block.
      (2)   (a)   Easements for sanitary sewer, water main, storm sewer, and
for related service connections shall be provided as determined necessary by
the city. Utility easements shall connect with easements established in
adjoining properties. Minimum easement requirements for a single utility are as
follows:
 
Depth of Utility Required Easement Width
0—10 feet               20 feet
10—15 feet              30 feet
15—20 feet              40 feet
 
         (b)   The city may require an additional 10 feet be added to the above
requirements for each additional utility to be included in the easement.
      (3)   Perpetual easements shall be provided in such a way as to provide
continuity of alignment from block to block. The subdivider shall provide
temporary construction easements where determined necessary by the city.
Perpetual easements shall be kept free of vegetation or structures which would
interfere with the free movement of utility service vehicles. Where easements
are provided for city utilities (sanitary sewer, water main, storm sewer, and
related service connections) or for watercourses, the size of lots on which the
easements are placed shall be increased so that minimum dimension and area
requirements are met exclusive of the easement areas. Easements shall be
provided over natural drainage or ponding areas for management of storm water
and significant wetlands.
      (4)   When a subdivision is traversed by a watercourse, ditch, swale,
drainage way, channel, or stream, a drainage easement shall be provided
conforming substantially with the lines of such watercourse. The easement shall
be of sufficient width to permit free flow of anticipated surface water, with
additional room required for access by maintenance vehicles. Where determined
necessary by the city, additional easement width shall be provided to
accommodate surface water anticipated from future development adjacent to or
otherwise upstream of the current subdivision.
   (K)   Storm water.
      (1)   Storm sewers, culverts and ditches shall be designed using the 10-
year rational method to accommodate a 10-year or greater frequency storm. Low
points shall have an overflow that will direct the runoff from a 100-year
frequency storm to a satisfactory outlet without damage to property or
structures. The rate of runoff from new development shall not exceed the rate
from pre-development conditions.
      (2)   All subdivision design shall incorporate adequate provisions for
storm water runoff consistent with the Jordan Comprehensive Surface Water
Management Plan (CSWMP) as amended, and with established city policies, and
conform to the following standards:
         (a)   The proposed provisions for storm water runoff shall be
documented in a runoff water management plan, prepared by a Minnesota licensed
engineer to the minimum standards described in division (K)(2)(c) of this
section.
         (b)   All storm water improvements shall be constructed in accordance
with the city's standard specifications and detail plates.
         (c)   A runoff water management plan shall include the following
items.
         (d)   All storm water detention, retention and/or quality ponds shall
be located in separate outlots and dedicated to the city. In addition, the
subdivider shall provide adequate access to these outlots by means of easements
or any other appropriate mechanism. The subdivider must provide the following:
            1.   A map containing a delineation of the sub-watershed
contributing runoff from offsite, and proposed and existing sub-watersheds on-
site. The delineation shall conform to the nomenclature of the SWMP and shall
indicate any significant departures from the watershed delineation of the SWMP.
            2.   Delineation of existing on-site "wetlands," as defined in the
Wetland Conservation Act, lakes, streams, shoreland and/or flood plain areas
shall be shown on the plans.
            3.   Show normal and high water elevations for all water bodies on
the plans.
            4.   Storm water runoff volumes and rates for the 2, 10 and 100-
year events for the existing and proposed conditions. Rainfall depths for these
storms are 2.86, 4.24 and 7.28 inches, with a Type II rainfall distribution.
            5.   All hydrologic and hydraulic computations completed to design
the proposed storm water management facilities. Reservoir routing procedures
and critical duration runoff events shall be used for design of water storage
areas and outlets.
            6.   A grading plan identifying storm water overflow routes along
streets or drainage easements designed to protect structures from damage due
to:
               a.   Storms in excess of the design storm; or
               b.   Clogging, collapse or other failure of the primary drainage
facilities.
            7.   Spot elevations at drainage breakpoints and directional arrows
indicating site and swale drainage shall be shown.
            8.   An assessment of the potential for construction or
contribution to regional detention basins, as opposed to the construction of
on-site basins. The SWMP identifies potential regional pond areas for control
of rate and nutrient loading. The following criteria shall be used to determine
whether on-site storage is required within the subdivision.
               a.   If the SWMP indicates construction or enlargement of a
storage site or water quality storage in a wetland or other water body, the
facility or its equivalent shall be constructed to meet the goals of the SWMP.
               b.   If a proposed subdivision will increase rates of runoff and
where downstream storm water storage or conveyance facilities are inadequate to
protect downstream riparian owners from effects of these increases, then on-
site storm water storage must be constructed to restrict storm water rates to
the pre-development rates.
            9.   Where on-site water quality detention basins are required,
copies of the calculations determining the design of the basins shall be
submitted. Design of on-site detention basins, as described in the site's
runoff water management plan, shall incorporate recommendations from the
Nationwide Urban Runoff Program (NURP) in "Protecting Water Quality in Urban
Areas," published by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, as adopted by the
city, or the applicable publications, as adopted by the city. The following
design considerations are required for on-site water quality detention basins.
These designs include permanent detention for water quality treatment in
accordance with the W. W. Walker Method (1987); extended detention designs may
be substituted provided that they provide treatment equivalent to the
requirements below:
         (a)   A permanent pool (dead storage) volume below the normal outlet
shall be greater than or equal to the runoff from a 2-1/2 inch, 24-hour storm
over the entire contributing drainage area.
         (b)   A permanent pool average depth (basin volume/basin are) which
shall be greater than 4 feet, with a maximum depth of less than 10 feet.
         (c)   An emergency spillway (emergency outlet) adequate to control the
100-year frequency critical duration rainfall event.
         (d)   Basin side slopes above the normal water level should be no
steeper than 3:1 when possible, and preferably flatter. A basin shelf with a
minimum width of 10 feet and a maximum slope of 10:1 below the normal water
level is recommended to enhance wildlife habitat, reduce potential safety
hazards, and improve access for long-term maintenance.
         (e)   To prevent short-circuiting, the distance between the major
inlets and normal outlet shall be maximized.
         (f)   A flood pool (temporary storage) volume above the principal
outlet spillway shall be adequate so that the peak discharge rate from the 2,
10 and 100 year frequency critical duration storm is not greater than the peak
discharge for a similar storm and predevelopment watershed conditions.
         (g)   Extended detention of runoff from the more frequent (1-year to
5-year) storms shall be achieved through a principal spillway design, which
shall include a perforated vertical riser, a small orifice outlet or a compound
weir.
         (h)   Effective energy dissipation devices which reduce outlet
velocities to 4 feet per second or less shall consist of rip rap, stilling
pools or other such measures to prevent erosion at all storm water outfalls
into the basin and at the detention basin outlet.
         (i)   Trash and floatable debris skimming devices shall be placed on
the outlet of all on-site detention basins to provide treatment up to the
critical duration 10-year storm event. These devices can consist of baffled
weirs, submerged inlets or other such measures capable of restricting the
overflow of floatable materials, including litter, oil and grease. Computations
for the design of the devices shall be included.
         (j)   For purposes of erosion control, vegetation protection and
wildlife habitat enhancement, the 10-year flood level of the basin shall be no
more than 2 feet above the normal level of the basin.
            1.   All ponds or basins shall have a 1 foot freeboard located
entirely within the outlot set aside for the pond or basin. Where additional
protection is warranted, the above frequencies or freeboard shall be increased
as necessary.
            2.   No structure, except piers, docks, and retaining walls shall
be placed at an elevation such that the lowest floor, including basement floor,
is less than 3 feet above the highest known water level, or less than 1 foot
above the 100-year regulatory flood protection elevation, if determined, of any
adjacent lake, pond, river, watercourse, or wetland. If sufficient data on
known high water levels is not available, the elevation of the line of
permanent aquatic vegetation shall be used as the estimated high water
elevation.
            3.   Structures shall maintain a 50-foot setback from the high
water elevation of water bodies.
            4.   Storm water facilities shall be designed for a 10-year
frequency storm for local pipe design and a 100-year frequency storm for
detention basin design and trunk facilities.
            5.   Storm water facilities shall use design criteria utilizing the
Rational Method for storm sewer design and the Soil Conservation Service TR-55/
TR-20, or similar based program, for computing existing and proposed
hydrologic/hydraulic calculations.
            6.   The maximum spacing between drainage structures is 400 feet.
            7.   Storm sewer pipe shall be designed to have a 3 feet per second
minimum velocity.
            8.   The invert elevations of pond inlet flared end sections shall
match the normal water level of the pond.
            9.   The minimum depth for catch basins located within the roadway
shall be 3-1/2 feet.
            10.   Riprap and filter blanket shall be placed at all outlet
flared end sections. The minimum class of riprap shall be MnDOT 3601.2, Class
III.
   (L)   Public land open space dedication; requirements.
      (1)   As a prerequisite to subdivision approval, subdividers shall
dedicate land for parks, playgrounds, public open space and trails, pedestrian
ways and sidewalks and/or shall make a cash payment to the city's park fund as
provided by this subdivision. The dedication of land for public use shall be
without restriction or reservation and shall be transferred to the city by
dedication in the plat. The city shall give due consideration to the open space
or park facilities that the developer proposes to include in the subdivision
when calculating the amount to be dedicated.
      (2)   In all new residential subdivisions, 10% of buildable acres shall
be dedicated for parks, playgrounds, public open space or other public use. For
commercial or industrial subdivisions, 5% of buildable acres shall be
dedicated. This land shall be in addition to the property dedicated for
streets, alleys, drainage ways, pedestrian ways or other public ways. Slopes in
excess of 18%, wetlands, ponding areas and natural waterways shall not be
accepted by the city as a part of the park land dedication requirements. The
city shall make a finding that it actually needs the park dedication as a
result of the city’s approval of the subdivision, prior to the acceptance of
the land or fee-in-lieu of.
      (3)   Where a proposed park, playground, school site or other public site
shown on the Comprehensive Plan, Growth Development Plan or official map is
embraced in whole or in part by a boundary of a proposed subdivision and such
public sites are not dedicated to the city, such public ground shall be
dedicated in the plat to the city. If the subdivider does not choose to
dedicate an area in excess of the required per capita resident or employee
amount required of the proposed site, the city may take other action to obtain
use of the site.
      (4)   Land to be dedicated shall be reasonably suitable for its intended
use and shall be at a location convenient to the people to be served. Factors
used in evaluating the adequacy of proposed parks, playgrounds, open space or
other public lands and recreation areas shall include size, shape, topography,
geology, soil types, hydrology, tree cover, access and location.
      (5)   No areas may be dedicated as park, playground, or public land until
the area has been approved for the purpose to which it is to be dedicated. The
subdivider shall leave the dedicated land in a condition acceptable to the
city.
      (6)   If in the judgment of the Council the area proposed to be dedicated
is not suitable or desirable for park/playground purposes because of location,
size or other reason, the city may require a cash payment in lieu of land
dedication. For residential subdivisions, cash-in-lieu payments will be
calculated by using Table A of this section. For commercial and industrial
subdivisions, cash-in-lieu payments shall be determined by taking 5% of the
value of the land being platted. The amount of cash payment shall be in
accordance with the payment schedules as set forth by ordinance adopted by the
Council. The city may elect to accept a combination of land dedicated for park
use and a cash payment.
      (7)   The park cash payment shall be calculated at the time of final plat
approval. The Council may require the payment at the time of final plat
approval or at a later time under terms agreed upon in the subdivision
contract. Delayed payment shall include interest at a rate set by the city.
      (8)   Cash payments shall be deposited in the city's Park and Recreation
Department Fund and shall only be used for acquisition or development of parks,
playgrounds, public open space and for trails, pedestrian ways and sidewalks.
      (9)   Parks bordered on 1 or more sides by existing creeks or streams
shall ensure access to the park is provided from a public street and that
pathways that allow emergency motorized vehicle traffic within the park are
present.
      (10)   Property being re-platted with the same number of lots and same
number of dwelling units shall be exempt from all park land dedication
requirements. If the number of lots or the number of dwelling units is
increased, or if land outside the previously recorded plat is added, then the
park land dedication and/or park cash contributions shall be based on the
additional lots and on the additional land being added to the plat. If the
additional land does not create additional lots, then each 1/3 acre added shall
be considered a new lot for purposes of calculating the dedication
requirements.
      (11)   When land is dedicated and deeded to the city for park purposes,
it shall be the responsibility of the city to maintain such dedicated property.
      (12)   Land dedication to the city shall be in the form of lots or
outlots with approved lot and block numbers.
      (13)   The developer shall be responsible for grading and seeding or
sodding of required parkland, to city specifications.
   (M)   Tree and woodland preservation.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this subdivision is to ensure that the
natural features within the city are protected and to minimize any adverse
effects development might have on the environment. Subdivisions shall be
planned in such a manner that the optimum number of significant trees shall be
preserved.
      (2)   Scope of application. The provisions of this section shall not
apply to the following:
         (a)   The removal of trees from commercial nurseries or horticulture
properties such as tree farms, orchards or commercial forests. This exception
shall not be interpreted to include lumber harvesting incidental to imminent
development of land.
         (b)   The removal of trees on public rights-of-way conducted by or on
behalf of a federal, state, county, municipal or other governmental agency in
pursuance of its lawful activities or functions in the construction or
improvement of public rights-of-way.
         (c)   The removal of trees deemed by the city to be diseased, dying or
dead.
         (d)   The removal of any tree that has become or threatens to become a
danger to human life or property.
         (e)   The removal of any tree by a public utility when such a tree has
the reasonable potential of endangering the facilities operated by the utility.
         (f)   Minor subdivisions that involve no more than 2 lots shall not be
required to submit a tree preservation plan.
         (g)   If no significant trees or woodlands are present on the site, a
tree preservation plan will not be required.
      (3)   Submittal requirements.
         (a)   All tree preservation plans must be certified by a forester or
landscape architect or registered land surveyor retained by the applicant. The
tree preservation plan, along with associated subdivision or grading permit
plans, shall be submitted in accordance with the Jordan Subdivision Ordinance
and Zoning Ordinance, as amended, whichever is applicable. All sites shall be
staked, as depicted in the approved grading plan, and the required tree
protection fencing shall be installed at the limits of the approved grading
before grading is to commence. No encroachment, grading, trenching, filling,
compaction, or change in soil chemistry shall occur within the fenced areas
protecting the critical root zone of the trees to be saved.
         (b)   The tree preservation plan shall be reviewed by the city's
Planning Department to assess the best possible layout to preserve significant
trees and significant woodlands and to enhance the efforts to minimize damage
to significant trees and significant woodlands. The applicant shall meet with
the Planning Department prior to submittal of the development application or
prior to application for the grading permit, whichever is sooner, to determine
the most feasible and practical placement of buildings, parking, driveways,
streets, storage and other physical features, in order that the fewest
significant trees and significant woodlands are destroyed or damaged.
      (4)   Tree and woodland preservation plan requirements. The tree
preservation plan shall include the following information:
         (a)   The name(s), telephone number(s), and address(es) of applicants,
property owners, developers and/or builders;
         (b)   Delineation of the buildings, structures, or impervious surfaces
situated thereon or contemplated to be built thereon;
         (c)   Delineation of all areas to be graded and limits of proposed
land disturbance within the subdivision. The limits of approved site grading
shall be delineated in the field. Significant trees shall be protected by
fencing located at the perimeter of its critical root zone;
         (d)   An inventory of size, species, and location of all existing
significant trees located within 75 feet of the areas to be graded and limits
of land disturbance created by the subdivision. Distance shall be measured from
the tree's drip line. These significant trees should be identified in both
graphic and tabular form. If no significant trees exist within 75 feet of the
grading limits, a tree inventory will not be required;
         (e)   Identification of all significant trees and significant
woodlands proposed to be saved, along with measures to protect significant
trees and significant woodlands. These significant trees and significant
woodlands shall be identified in both graphic and tabular form;
         (f)   Identification of all significant trees and significant
woodlands which will be lost due to proposed land alterations. Significant
trees shall be considered lost as a result of:
            1.   Grade change or land alteration, whether temporary or
permanent, of greater than 1 foot measured vertically, affecting 60% (as
measured on a horizontal plane) or more of the tree's root zone or the area
under the tree which is at and within the drip line of the tree's canopy;
            2.   Utility construction (i.e., sewer, water, storm sewer, gas,
electric, telephone and cable TV) resulting in the cutting of 60% or more of
the tree's roots within the root zone;
            3.   Mechanical injury to the trunk of a significant tree causing
loss of more than 40% of the bark; or
            4.   Compaction to a depth of 6 inches or more of 60% or more of
the surface of the soil within a significant tree's root zone, or the area
under the tree which is at and within the drip line of the tree's canopy;
         (g)   Identification of all diseased, hazardous, or nuisance trees.
Prior to any grading, all diseased and hazardous trees on the subject property
shall be removed from the property;
         (h)   Signature of the person(s) preparing the plan.
      (5)   Tree and woodland reforestation mitigation.
         (a)   1.   A developer shall replace significant live trees lost or
reasonably anticipated to be lost as a result of grading, building upon, or any
other land alteration of, the land immediately or in the future, by the
Developer, his or her agent, successor in interest, or any other person to whom
or by whom all or any part of the land may be sold, graded, built upon, or
altered by planting that number of trees ("replacement trees") determined in
accordance with the following formula:
A = Total Diameter Inches of Significant Trees Lost as a Result of the Land
Alteration
B = Total Diameter Inches of Significant Trees Situated on the Land
C = Tree Replacement Constant (1.33)
D = Replacement Trees (Number of Caliper Inches)
   [(A/B)xC] x A = D
EXAMPLE
A = 337 total diameter inches of significant trees lost
B = 943 total diameter inches of significant trees on the land
C = 1.33 tree replacement constant
D = 160 replacement trees
   [(337/943) x 1.33] x 337 = 160
            2.   Trees installed in boulevards as a part of subdivision
requirements may count toward tree replacement inches, if the Planning
Commission and City Council determine the site area is limited in which trees
may be planted.
         (b)   No significant trees or significant woodlands shall be removed
until a tree preservation plan is approved by the city and escrow received in
accordance with the approved tree preservation plan. If a significant tree(s)
or any significant woodland that was intended to be preserved is removed
without permission of the city, or damaged so that it is in a state of decline
within 1 year from date of project closure as determined by a forester or
landscape architect, the applicant shall mitigate tree loss by reforestation of
appropriate areas within the development area in accordance with the following
replacement schedule.
            1.   For each significant tree removed that was intended to be
preserved, 2 deciduous trees with a minimum of 2-1/2 inch caliper or 2
coniferous trees with a height of not less than 6 feet must be planted.
            2.   Where replacement of a significant woodland is required, the
applicant shall be responsible for furnishing and installing 2 deciduous trees
with a minimum of 2-1/2 inch caliper or 2 coniferous trees with a height of not
less than 6 feet for every 500 square feet of significant woodland damaged or
destroyed that was intended to be preserved, or any increment thereof.
         (c)   The trees required to be replaced pursuant to this section shall
be in addition to any other trees required to be planted pursuant to any other
provision of the Code.
         (d)   Replacement trees shall be planted in 1 or more of the following
areas on the land:
            1.   Restoration areas including steep slopes;
            2.   Outlots or common areas;
            3.   Buffer zones between different land uses and/or activities;
            4.   Project entrance areas; and
            5.   Any other part of the land except any thereof dedicated or
conveyed to the city, unless the city consents thereto.
         (e)   Replacement trees must be no less than the following sizes:
            1.   Deciduous trees: no less than 3 caliper inches;
            2.   Coniferous trees - no less than 7 feet high;
            3.   On steep slopes (i.e., greater than 3:1) deciduous trees may
be 2-1/2 caliper inches and coniferous trees may be 6 feet in height.
         (f)   Acceptable tree species.
            1.   Deciduous trees.
Common/Genus Common/ Species Cultivars Comments
Common/Genus      Common/ Species    Cultivars             Comments
Alder/Alnus       glutinosa          Common                 
Aspen/Populus     tremuloides        Trembling              
                                     River, Heritage,
Birch/Betula      nigra              Royal Frost, Paper,    
                                     Prairie Dream,
Birch/Betula      paper/papyrifera   Paper, Prairie Dream   
Birch/Betula      populifolia        Whitespire             
Buckeye/Aesculus  common             Autumn Splendor, Ohio  
Catalpa           common             Northern               
Cherry/Prunus     maackii            Amur                   
Chestnut/Aesculus hippocastanum      Baumann Horse          
Chestnut/Aesculus Hybrid             Fort McNair Red Horse  
Coffeetree/       dioicus            Kentucky               
Gymnocladus
Elm/Ulmus         common             New Horizon,          Dutch Elm Disease
                                                           resistant varieties
Elm/Ulmus         hybrid             Cathedral, Accolade,  Dutch Elm Disease
                                     Triumph               resistant varieties
                                     Autumn Gold, Magyar,
Ginkgo            biloba             Princeton Sentry,     Male species only
                                     male species only
Hackberry         common                                   
Honeylocust/      inermis            Shademaster            
Gleditsia
Honeylocust/      triacanthos        Imperial, Skyline,     
Gleditsia                            Sunburst
Hornbeam/Capinus  caroliniana        American               
Ironwood/Ostrya   virginiana         American Hop-hornbeam  
Linden/Tilia      americana          Boulevard, Redmond,    
                                     American Sentry,
Linden/Tilia      cordata            Greenspire             
Linden/Tilia      Hybrid             Glenleven              
Maple/Acer        freemanii (Red X   Autumn Blaze, Sienna   
                  silver)            Glen,
                                     Cleveland, Crimson King, Deborah, Emerald
Maple/Acer        norway/platanoides Lustre, Emerald Queen, Parkway, Princeton
                                     Gold, Royal Red, Variegated
                                     Autumn Radiance, Autumn Spire, Firedance,
Maple/Acer        red/rubrum         Northfire, Red Sunset, Northwood,
                                     Burgundy Belle, Ruby Frost
                                     Sugar, Green
Maple/Acer        sugar/saccarum     Mountain, Majesty,     
                                     Fall Fiesta
Oak/Quercus       bicolor            Swamp White            
Oak/Quercus       ellipsoidalis      Northern Pin           
Oak/Quercus       Hybrid             Regal Prince,          
                                     Heritage
Oak/Quercus       palustria          Pin                    
Oak/Quercus       red                Red                    
Oak/Quercus       robur              English                
Poplar/Populus    deltoides          Siouxland              
Poplar/Populus    euramericana       Robusta                
Walnut/Juglans    black/nigra        Black Walnut           
Yellowwood/       lutea              American Yellowwood    
Cladrastis
 
            2.   Coniferous trees.
Common/Genus Common/Species Cultivars
Common/Genus  Common/Species Cultivars
Fir/Abies     balsamea       Balsam
Fir/Abies     white/concolor Candicans
Hemlock/Tsuga canadensis     Canadian, Albospica
Larch/Larix   decidua        European
Larch/Larix   laricina       Tamarack
Pine/Pinus    banksiana      Jack
Pine/Pinus    cembra         Swiss Stone
Pine/Pinus    flexilis       Limber, Cesarini Blue, Extra Blue
Pine/Pinus    monticola      Ammerland
Pine/Pinus    nigra          Austrian
Pine/Pinus    norway
Pine/Pinus    parviflora     Japanese Blue, Short-Needled Japanese Blue,
                             TempelhofJapanese White, Bergman Japanese White
Pine/Pinus    peuce          Blue Macedonian
Pine/Pinus    ponderosa      Yellow
Pine/Pinus    resinosa       Red
Pine/Pinus    strobus        White, Columnar
Pine/Pinus    sylvestris     Scotch, French Blue
Pseudotsuga   menziesii      Douglas Fir (aka: Oregon pine or Douglas Spruce),
                             Hess Select Blue
Spruce/Picea  glauca         Black Hills
Spruce/Picea  pungens        Colorado
 
      (6)   Time to perform.
         (a)   The applicant shall implement the tree preservation plan prior
to and during any construction. The tree protection measures of the plan shall
remain in place until all grading and construction activity is terminated or
until a request is made to and approved by the city. The city shall have the
right to inspect the development and/or building site in order to determine
compliance with the approved tree preservation plan. The city shall determine
whether compliance with the tree preservation plan has been met.
         (b)   Replacement trees shall be planted not less than 18 months from
the date of issuance of the permit.
         (c)   Any replacement tree which is not alive or healthy 1 year after
the date that the last replacement tree has been planted shall be removed and a
new healthy tree of the same size and species shall be planted in place of the
removed tree. A new healthy tree of the same size and species shall be planted
in place of any replacement tree missing 1 year after such date. Planting shall
occur not later than the first fall or spring following such year.
      (7)   Protective measures.
         (a)   Measures to protect significant trees and significant woodlands
approved, as part of the free preservation plan shall be included in sales
information and disseminated to potential buyers of wooded lots.
         (b)   The developer shall indemnify the city against any loss, cost or
expense, including an amount as and for reasonable attorneys' fees incurred in
enforcing the terms of this chapter.
      (8)   Financial guarantee.
         (a)   An applicant shall provide a financial guarantee of $500 for
each lot having significant trees located within 75 feet of the grading or land
disturbance limits following the preliminary approval of the tree preservation
plan and prior to any construction and/or grading.
         (b)   Following written request by the applicant for acceptance, the
financial guarantee will be released upon certification by the landscape
architect, city engineer, or forester that the tree preservation plan was
followed, but in no event shall the financial guarantee be released earlier
than 1 year after the date of the project closure.
   TABLE A
   CALCULATION FOR CASH-IN-LIEU PAYMENTS FOR RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISIONS
Step 1: Calculate the per capita residential share of parks in Jordan.
   a.   Reference the most recently adopted Comprehensive Plan for total
parkland acres in the city, including trails.
   b.   Multiply total parkland acres by 95%, which is the estimated
residential share of park use.
   c.   Divide the acres calculated in part b. by the total population of
Jordan. The most recent Met Council projection shall be used to determine the
city population.
Step 2: Determine cash-in-lieu payment.
   a.   Determine the number of lots of the proposed subdivision.
   b.   Multiply the number of lots by the average household size of Jordan.
The most recent Met Council projection shall be used to determine the city's
average household size.
   c.   Multiply the number calculated in part b. by the per capita residential
share (calculated in step 1 above). This will provide the amount of acres used
to determine the cash-in-lieu payment.
   d.   Determine the fair market value of the number of acres calculated in
part c. by using the fair market value of the unplatted land of the proposed
subdivision.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005; Am. Ord. 96, Second Series, passed 8-7-2006; Am.
Ord. 2012-11, passed 10-15-2012; Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord.
2014-011, passed 8-18-2014; Am. Ord. 2014-02, passed 5-19-2014; Am. Ord. 2021-
01, passed 2-1-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 2-28-2022; Am. Ord. 2024-02,
passed 3-11-2024)
§ 153.12 SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   Purpose. The subdivider shall prepare a sketch plan for review by the
Community Development Director, or designee, depicting the proposed
subdivision. The sketch plan and accompanying information shall serve as a
basis for discussion between the subdivider and the city and is intended to
provide the subdivider with an advisory review without incurring major costs
prior to submission of any plat for the proposed subdivision and preliminary
proposals for sewer and water connections. The sketch plan may be presented in
simple form showing any zoning changes which would be required and showing that
consideration has been given to the relationship of the proposed subdivision to
existing community facilities that would serve it, to neighboring subdivisions
and development, to the topography and vegetation of the site, to the
Comprehensive Plan and Growth Development Plan for the area. Because all new
subdivisions are required to provide city sewer and city water, the
subdivider’s proposal shall include a description of the preliminary proposal
for sanitary sewer and water connections.
   (B)   Required information. At least the following information shall be
submitted:
      (1)   A sketch plan showing tract boundaries, proposed lots, proposed
streets, use, density, proposed park and open space, acreage, and relationship
to the surrounding land, location within the city, and generalized natural
features including topography, significant trees and woods, water bodies and
wetlands;
      (2)   Preliminary description of a proposal for sanitary sewer and city
water and general drainage;
      (3)   Any required zoning changes;
      (4)   Proposed timing and staging of development;
      (5)   The sketch plan shall include adjacent properties illustrating the
possible relationship between the proposed subdivision and future subdivisions.
All subdivisions shall be required to relate well with existing or potential
adjacent subdivisions.
   (C)   Review. To the degree possible and based on the general nature of the
sketch plan, the City Administrator or the Administrator’s designee will advise
the subdivider as to conformity of the subdivision with the Comprehensive Plan,
the Growth Development Plan, and this chapter and as to variances that may be
required and any other applicable official controls. The Planning Commission
may also review the sketch plan and provide advice. Any advice, comments or
recommendations for modifications made at this point by the staff or Planning
Commission are advisory only and shall not constitute approval or a commitment
to approve. Review of the sketch plan will include an initial determination if
environmental review documents must be completed pursuant to state law or
rules. If such documents are required, the subdivider shall take the proper
steps to ensure that the documents are prepared.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005)
§ 153.13 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Application requirements. A subdivider desiring to subdivide land
within the city or subject to this chapter shall file with the City
Administrator or the Administrator's designee an application which shall
consist of the following:
      (1)   A completed application form, the required filing fee established
by the city, and documents demonstrating sufficient ownership, control or
authorization in the applicant to apply for the subdivision.
      (2)   At least 11 full size (at least 22" x 34") copies of the
preliminary plat, 1 reproducible copy at 8-1/2 inches by 11 inches, plus any
additional copies deemed necessary by the city, prepared by a registered land
surveyor. The application and preliminary plat shall contain at minimum the
information required in this chapter.
      (3)   At least 5 full size copies of the preliminary grading plan that
includes all of the requirements listed in division (D) of this section.
      (4)   At least 5 full size copies of the preliminary utility plan that
includes all of the requirements listed in division (E) of this section.
      (5)   A list of property owners located within 350 feet of the subject
property obtained from and certified by the county or certified by an abstract
company.
      (6)   If the subdivider requests that any existing special assessments
which have been levied against the premises described in the subdivision be
divided and allocated to the respective lots in the subdivision plat, the city
shall estimate the clerical cost of preparing the revised assessment roll,
filing the same with the County Auditor, and making the division and
allocation, upon approval by the Council of such estimate, cost of the same
shall be paid to the Treasurer in addition to the fee mentioned above to cover
the cost of preparing and filing such revised assessments.
      (7)   Completed environmental review documents required pursuant to state
law or rule.
      (8)   All required data, plat documents, copies and filing fee(s) must be
submitted before the application will be considered complete.
      (9)   Wetland delineation and at least 3 copies of the delineation report
for the entire site.
      (10)   Drainage calculations, which include the existing and proposed
runoff rates, volumes and elevations for the 2,10 and 100 year, 24-hour storm
events. Provide a summary table of the calculations.
      (11)   Along with the preliminary plat, the developer shall submit a
description of the proposed phasing of the plat and sequence of future final
plats.
   (B)   General provisions for the preliminary plat. The following data shall
be included on the preliminary plat or in the accompanying documents:
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision, which name shall not duplicate the
name of any plat heretofore recorded in the county;
      (2)   Location by section, township, range, and quarter section or
quarter-quarter section lines and by legal description;
      (3)   Names, addresses, phone numbers of all owners and subdividers
having control of the lands included in the preliminary plat, the designer of
the plat, surveyor, engineer and other principals involved in the development
of the plat;
      (4)   Proposed use(s) of the property;
      (5)   Graphic scale of not less than 1 inch to 100 feet;
      (6)   Existing zoning and any zoning change being requested;
      (7)   North point and key;
      (8)   Existing and proposed covenant, liens or encumbrances;
      (9)   Date of preparation;
      (10)   Ghost plat or build-out-plan illustrating the future location of
lots, streets and utilities:
         (a)   Whenever a parcel of land is subdivided and the subdivision plat
shows 1 or more lots or outlots that may eventually be subdivided into smaller
lots.
         (b)   Whenever a developer or property owner is platting only a
portion of the property in which they have title to or a legal interest in and
the balance of the unplatted property is adjacent to the subject property, a
build out plan of the entire area shall be submitted.
         (c)   For cluster subdivisions or open space design subdivisions that
preserve open space for future development.
      (11)   A vicinity map, at a legible scale, to show the relation of the
plat to its surroundings and surrounding zoning districts;
      (12)   Lot width at the setback line when lot lines are not parallel;
      (13)   Relationship of the preliminary plat to the city's Comprehensive
Plan;
      (14)   Minimum front and side-street building setback lines as required
in the Zoning Chapter of the City Code. Any deviation from the zoning
provisions shall be noted and supporting variance information shall be
provided;
      (15)   Identification of any lots in which uses other than residential
are proposed by the developer;
      (16)   Proof of legal title to the property.
   (C)   Existing condition requirements. The following data regarding existing
conditions shall be provided:
      (1)   Boundary lines clearly indicated on a survey, including measured
distances and angles, which shall close by latitude and departure with a
closure error not exceeding 1 foot in 7,500 feet;
      (2)   Total acreage in the preliminary plat computed to 1/10 of an acre;
      (3)   Location and names of existing or platted streets or other public
ways, parks and other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures,
section and corporate lines, and all existing easements with purpose of
easement and type and location of any facility or installation that is located
in the easement within the tract and to a distance of 350 feet beyond the
tract;
      (4)   If the proposed subdivision is a rearrangement of a replat of any
former plat, the lot and block arrangement of the original plat, along with its
original name, shall be indicated by dotted or dashed lines. Also, any revised
or vacated roadways of the original plat shall be so indicated;
      (5)   Location and size of existing paved streets, railroads, sewers,
water mains, gravel pits, culverts or other underground facilities within the
tract and to a distance of 350 feet beyond the tract. Also such data as grades,
invert elevations and location of catch basins, manholes and hydrants;
      (6)   Boundary lines of adjoining platted or unplatted land within 350
feet of the tract and the record owners' names;
      (7)   Complete topographic map with contour intervals not greater than 2
feet; waterways, watercourses, lakes, ponds and wetlands with normal high-water
mark and 100-year flood elevation indicated along with the other required
floodplain labels in §
153.10(F); existing wooded areas and trees having a diameter of 10 inches or
greater identified by species; rock outcrops; power transmission poles and
lines; and other significant features; all superimposed on the preliminary
plat. An acceptable alternative is to provide a Mylar of the preliminary plat
at the same scale as the topographic map containing the required information;
      (8)   Soil surveys of the site or the results from representative soil
borings;
      (9)   Existing zoning of land within and abutting the subdivision.
   (D)   Preliminary grading plan. The developer shall submit a preliminary
grading, drainage and erosion control plan utilizing a copy of the current
certificate of survey as a base for the site in question, prepared and signed
by a Minnesota licensed engineer, depicting the following information and
standards:
      (1)   North arrow and date of preparation;
      (2)   Graphic scale (engineering scale only, not less than 1 inch equals
50 feet);
      (3)   Lot and block numbers, house pad location, home style and proposed
building pad elevations at garage slab and lowest floor for each lot;
      (4)   Legend with all line types, symbols, shading and cross-hatching
denoted;
      (5)   Existing survey benchmarks used which shall be based upon the city/
county benchmark system. Copies of level loops for newly established benchmarks
must be provided with the initial submittal of the grading plan;
      (6)   Subject property's boundary lines, lot lines and right-of-way
lines;
      (7)   All adjacent plats, parcels, right-of-ways, and section lines and
existing topography extended a minimum of 350 feet beyond the subject parcel in
all directions;
      (8)   Topography in 2-foot contour intervals with existing contours shown
as dashed lines and proposed contours shown as solid lines. Existing contours
shall extend outside the subject property boundary as required for
interpretation of proposed impacts;
      (9)   Locations of all existing natural features must be clearly shown.
Natural features are considered to include, but are not limited to, the
following: tree lines, wetlands, ponds, lakes, streams, drainage channels,
bluffs, steep slopes and the like;
      (10)   Location of all existing storm sewer facilities, including pipes,
manholes, catch basins, ponds, swales, and drainage channels within 350 feet of
the tract. Existing pipe grades, rim and invert elevations, and normal and high
water elevations must be included;
      (11)   Total area of plat, all lots, outlots and ponding areas denoted on
plan (tabulation permitted);
      (12)   Direction arrows indicating existing site;
      (13)   Proposed slopes;
      (14)   Proposed lot and block numbers;
      (15)   Proposed lot corner elevations;
      (16)   Street names. All street names shall conform to the street name
system established by the city;
      (17)   Street grades shown, with a maximum permissible grade of 7% and a
minimum of 0.5%;
      (18)   Locations and elevations of all street high and low points;
      (19)   Designation of lots to be mass graded and custom graded;
      (20)   Phasing of grading;
      (21)   Proposed elevations at garage floor and lowest floor elevation.
Proposed finished ground elevations around home for final grading.
      (22)   Style of home proposed for each lot; e.g., rambler, split level,
walkout, full basement and the like;
      (23)   Standard lot benching detail;
      (24)   Applicable city standard detail plates and maintenance;
      (25)   Locations of all temporary cul-de-sacs;
      (26)   Locations of temporary street barricades;
      (27)   Locations and dimensions of all proposed retaining walls;
      (28)   Locations of all proposed pedestrian facilities;
      (29)   Location of proposed sump pump lines including cleanout locations
and inverts of services to each lot 5 feet from the lot line on the downstream
side of the lot;
      (30)   Location of all proposed drainage and utility easements;
      (31)   Locations, grades, rim and invert elevations of all proposed storm
sewer facilities, including invert elevations for inlets and outlets of ponds,
proposed to serve the tract;
      (32)   If the property is within or adjacent to a 100-year flood plain,
flood elevations and the boundary of the 100-year floodplain;
      (33)   All existing and proposed ponds must have normal water level
(NWL), 100-year high water level (HWL) shown and total volume (acre feet) of
storm water retention indicated above the NWL;
      (34)   All ponds, swales and channels to be constructed on public
easements or land owned by the city;
      (35)   Emergency overflow swales located, labeled and spot elevations.
Rear or side lot line swales minimum 2% grade;
      (36)   Percent grades indicated along drainage swales;
      (37)   Maximum of 600 lineal feet of drainage from rear yard areas
permitted. Rear yard catch basins must be installed at the 600 foot mark, or as
determined by the City Engineer;
      (38)   Proposed spot elevations at drainage break points, high points and
low points and directional arrows indicating proposed site, swale and lot
drainage patterns;
      (39)   All soil erosion and sediment control and Stormwater Management
BMPs to be incorporated for compliance with city and NPDES requirements during
and after construction must be shown. Locations and standard detail plates for
each measure must be included on the plan;
      (40)   All re-vegetation measures proposed for the tract, including seed
and mulch types and application rates must be included on the plan;
      (41)   Tree preservation plan, prepared in accordance with current city
standards and specifications. Location of tree preservation fencing, and limits
of clearing and grading clearly shown on plans.
   (E)   Preliminary street and utility plan. This plan is to be prepared by a
Minnesota licensed engineer, depicting the following information, and shall
comply with the following standards:
      (1)   All street and utility improvements shall be constructed in
accordance with the city's standard specifications and detail plates.
      (2)   Location, dimension and purpose of all temporary and permanent
easements.
      (3)   Location and size of existing sewers, water mains, culverts, or
other underground facilities within the tract and to a distance of 350 feet
beyond the tract. Such data as grades, invert elevations and location of catch
basins, manholes and hydrants shall also be shown.
      (4)   Water mains shall be provided to serve the subdivision by extension
of an existing community system. Service connections shall be stubbed into the
property line and all necessary fire hydrants and valves shall also be
provided. Extensions of the public water supply system shall be designed so as
to provide public water in accordance with the design standards as approved by
the City Engineer and in accordance with the city's Comprehensive Water Plan.
      (5)   Sanitary sewer laterals and service connections shall be installed
in accordance with the design standards of the city as approved by the City
Engineer.
      (6)   Locations grades, rim and invert elevations, and sizes of all
proposed sanitary sewer facilities to serve the tract.
      (7)   Layout of proposed streets showing right-of-way widths, centerline
gradients, dimensions between the faces of the curbs, pedestrian facilities,
typical section, draintile, sump pump lines. The classification of the streets
shall be in accordance with the city's Comprehensive Plan.
      (8)   (a)   Full size plan sheets shall be 22 inches x 34 inches. Half-
size plans, 11 inches x 17 inches shall also be provided.
Scale: Horizontal Scale 1" = 50'
Vertical Scale 1" = 10'
         (b)   The following utilities shall be located in the approximate
locations.
 
Sanitary Sewer                          On centerline of street right-of-way.
No curvilinear design is permitted.
Water Main                              Ten feet on either side of centerline
                                        and/or parallel to sanitary sewer.
                                        Ten feet or greater as necessary to
Storm Sewer                             avoid wheel paths to the opposite side
                                        of centerline as of water main.
All street surface structures (i.e.,
manhole, gate valve covers, etc.) shall
be located as necessary to avoid being
in the traveled wheel paths.
 
         (c)   The profile shall be directly below the plan with the stationing
aligned as closely as practical. Stationing shall be shown on the plan view as
well as the profile.
         (d)   All parcels shall be properly labeled with lot and block numbers
and plat name, or parcel number in unplatted areas. Developed parcels shall
have their address shown on the plan.
         (e)   All street names shall be clearly labeled. All street names
shall conform with the street name policy established by the city.
         (f)   All match-line breaks shall be clean with reference points and
plan sheet numbers of continuation clearly marked. All plans which are broken
by a match-line shall be on the same or consecutive sheets.
         (g)   Existing utilities shall be shown and labeled as existing.
         (h)   When drafting utility and/or street plans, use a solid line for
new utilities and a dashed line for existing utilities.
         (i)   Approximate locations of gas, electric, cable, telephone lines,
pipelines and the like shall be shown.
         (j)   Right-of-way and pavement or curb and gutter alignment data
shall be shown. All easements shall be shown on drawings including sanitary
sewer, water main, and storm sewer.
         (k)   All plans shall have properly placed north arrows for each plan
on the sheet.
         (l)   Benchmarks shall be placed on all sheets (top of existing
hydrant is a preferable benchmark.)
         (m)   The direction north will be oriented either up or to the right
on all plan sheets for utility and street plans.
         (n)   Title block information shall be located on each plan sheet.
Information shall include name and address of engineering firm, sheet title
name, sheet number, certification signature title block and registration number
of registered professional engineer, project title, horizontal and vertical
scales and city project number.
         (o)   Stationing on plans shall increase from south to north and west
to east.
         (p)   Use of all typical engineering symbols is required.
         (q)   Location map (scale 1" = 2,000') showing the location and names
of major streets all within 1 mile of proposed subdivision, all streets in the
proposed project, all proposed or non-existing future streets and all other
streets in the vicinity of the proposed project. The project area shall be
indicated by circling.
         (r)   Overall plan with a map scale of 1" = 50' showing the proposed
project area and areas which drain through project area as well as adjacent
property. Overall plan shall have the following information:
            1.   Property lines: proposed in solid lines, existing in dashed
lines;
            2.   Street and street names;
            3.   Schematics for proposed improvements of sanitary sewer, water
main and storm sewer. Proposed size and type of piping including manholes and
appurtenances clearly shown. Existing piping and appurtenances information
shall be shown and labeled;
            4.   All property within plan shall be identified with lot number,
or appropriate title;
            5.   Location and elevation of all benchmarks.
         (s)   All manholes shall be numbered and stationed in both plan and
profile.
         (t)   Stationing of water curb boxes for each service.
         (u)   All water and sanitary sewer services shall be shown and length
noted if other than to drainage and utility line.
         (v)   All water fittings shall be labeled with proposed valves shall
be located on every side of a tee or cross.
         (w)   The size and type of all sanitary sewer and water services shall
be noted on the plans.
         (x)   Sewer and water services shall be separated by 3 feet of
Minnesota Department of Health Standards, whichever is greater. Sanitary sewer
services shall be downstream from water services for each lot.
         (y)   All sewer and water main shall be shown in profile with the
appropriate information such as size, material, existing and proposed surface
elevations, invert elevation, etc. Storm sewer plan should be on a separate
sheet from sanitary sewer and water. Any utility crossings shall be shown on
the profile. Possible conflicts shall be indicated.
         (z)   Any revisions must be noted, initialed and signed on all
affected sheets.
         (aa)   The street construction plans shall show the centerline
stationing and centerline curve data.
         (bb)   The street construction plans shall include cross-sections or,
if approved by the City Engineer, a grading plan.
         (cc)   If the gutter lines vary from typical elevation to the
centerline, separate profiles shall be required.
         (dd)   Locations and size of proposed improvements for parks,
playgrounds, public open spaces or other special uses of land to be considered
for dedication to public use or to be reserved by deed of covenant for the use
of all property owners within the subdivision and any conditions of such
reservation or dedication.
   (F)   Additional requirements. Surveys, plans and supporting data as set
forth in this section shall be prepared in accordance with rules and
regulations established by the City Engineer, approved by the Council and on
file in the office of the City Administrator or the Administrator's designee.
   (G)   Review and actions.
      (1)   General. The preliminary plat stage is the time when the most
relevant information pertinent to the proposed plat and development is
furnished by the developer for review by city staff, Planning Commission,
Council and the public. The information provides a basis for review of the
adequacy of the plat leading to approval, denial, or modification of the
proposal. Changes may be required by the city, and additional information may
be requested during the review process. The city in its review of a preliminary
plat will take into consideration the requirements of the community and the
best use of the land being subdivided. Particular attention will be given, but
not be limited, to the arrangement, location and widths of streets; the general
drainage situation; lot sizes and arrangement; and compliance with the
Comprehensive Plan requirements such as parks, school sites, boulevards and
streets.
      (2)   Referrals.
         (a)   Upon receipt of a complete application for a preliminary plat,
the City Administrator or the Administrator's designee shall refer copies of
the plat map to the following individuals or bodies:
            1.   City Engineer;
            2.   City Attorney;
            3.   School District;
            4.   Commissioner of Transportation if the proposed subdivision
includes land abutting an established or proposed trunk highway;
            5.   County Engineer if the proposed subdivision includes land
abutting a county or county state-aid highway;
            6.   State Commissioner of Natural Resources if the proposed
subdivision adjoins a public body of water;
            7.   The Watershed Management Organization, if applicable;
            8.   Other city department heads as appropriate;
            9.   Park and Recreation Commission; and
            10.   Planning Commission (8-1/2 x 11 inch copies may be used).
         (b)   The City Engineer and City Attorney shall make and transmit a
written report to the City Administrator or the Administrator's designee within
30 days. If appropriate, other individuals or bodies to which the preliminary
plat has been referred shall submit their written comments to the City
Administrator or the Administrator's designee within 30 days after receipt of
the plat. If no report is received within this time period, it may be assumed
that there are no objections to the plan as submitted.
      (3)   Planning Commission hearing. Within 45 days after the completed
application is filed, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on
the preliminary plat. Notice of the purpose, time and place of the public
hearing shall be published in the official newspaper at least 10 days prior to
the day of the hearing. All property owners within 350 feet of the proposed
subdivision shall be notified in writing of the public hearing at least 10 days
prior to the hearing. Failure of the Planning Commission to mail the notice or
failure of the property owners to receive the notice shall not invalidate the
proceedings. The subdivider shall appear before the Planning Commission to
answer questions concerning the preliminary plat. All persons interested shall
be given an opportunity to be heard.
      (4)   Report to Council. The report of the Planning Commission shall be
submitted to the Council not later than 60 days after the public hearing first
commenced. If the Planning Commission fails to make a report, the Council may
proceed without the report. Failure to receive a report from the Planning
Commission shall not invalidate the proceedings or actions of the Council.
      (5)   Action by Council. Within 120 days of receipt by the city of the
completed and filed application, or the preliminary plat in compliance with
this chapter, the Council shall approve or deny the preliminary plat in whole
or in part, unless an extension of the review period has been agreed to by the
applicant. If the Council fails to act within the review period, the
application shall be deemed to be preliminarily approved.
      (6)   Approval/disapproval. The action of the Council in approving or
disapproving the preliminary plat shall be by majority vote of the entire
Council and shall be in the form of a resolution. If disapproved, the reasons
therefor shall be set forth in the resolution or proceedings of the Council.
The Council may require modification, changes and revisions of the plat as it
deems necessary to carry out the purpose and intent of this chapter. Approval
of the plat is an acceptance of the general layout and authorizes the
subdivider to complete the steps necessary for final approval of the plat in
accordance with the terms of approval. The approval does not constitute final
acceptance of the subdivision. If the Council denies approval of the
preliminary plat, the reasons for the action shall be recorded and transmitted
to the applicant.
      (7)   Approval duration. If the preliminary plat is approved by the
Council, the subdivider must submit the final plat within 360 days after the
approval or approval of the preliminary plat shall be considered void, unless a
request for time extension is submitted in writing and approved by the Council.
The written request for extension must be submitted before expiration of the
360-day period.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005; Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-
04, passed 5-19-2014; Am. Ord. 2014-011, passed 8-18-2014; Am. Ord. 2020-09,
passed 1-4-2021)
§ 153.14 FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   Plat contents. The final plat for recording purposes shall be prepared
in accordance with the provisions of Minnesota Statutes and applicable county
regulations. At least 7 copies of the final plat and application shall be
submitted to the City Administrator or the Administrator's designee within 360
days after the city approves the preliminary plat. The plat shall contain the
following:
      (1)   All information required by the County Surveyor, Registrar of
Titles and County Recorder;
      (2)   Dimensions, size and scale as required by the county for approval
by the county board in filing with the County Recorder or the Registrar of
Titles;
      (3)   Municipal, township, county or section lines accurately tied to the
lines of the subdivision by distance and angles;
      (4)   Name of the plat;
      (5)   Location by section, township, range, county and state and
including descriptive boundaries of the subdivision based on an accurate
traverse, giving angular and linear dimensions which must mathematically close.
The allowable error of closure on any portion of a final plat shall be 1 foot
in 7,500 feet;
      (6)   Names of adjoining subdivisions and layouts of their streets;
      (7)   Location and description of monuments shown in reference to
existing official monuments of the nearest established street lines, including
true angles and distances to such reference points or monuments. Permanent
markers shall be placed at each corner of each lot, points of curvature and
points of tangency on street lines, and at each angle point on the boundary of
the subdivision. A permanent marker shall be deemed to be a steel rod or pipe,
3/4 inch or larger in diameter extending at least 14 inches below the finished
grade. In situations where conditions prohibit the placing of markers in the
locations prescribed above, offset markers shall be shown on the final plat,
together with accurate interior angles, bearings and distances. Permanent
monuments shall be placed at all quarter section points within the subdivision
or on its perimeter;
      (8)   The location of lots, streets, public highways, alleys, parks and
other features with accurate dimensions in feet and decimals of feet, with the
length of radii and/or arcs of all curves, and with all other information
necessary to reproduce the plat on the ground. Dimensions shall be shown from
all angle points and points of curve to lot lines;
      (9)   Boundary lines and description of boundary lines of any areas other
than streets and alleys which are to be dedicated or reserved for public use;
      (10)   Clearly numbered lots and blocks with block numbers shown in the
center of the block;
      (11)   Names and addresses of the subdivider and surveyor making the
plat;
      (12)   Scale of plat (the scale to be shown graphically and in feet per
inch), date, and north point;
      (13)   City Attorney's approval of plat;
      (14)   A statement dedicating all easements;
      (15)   A statement dedicating all streets, alleys, parks and public open
space, and other public areas not previously dedicated;
      (16)   A separate copy of the plat labeled “Building Setback Lines”
containing the statement: “Building setback lines are hereby established as
shown on this copy of the plat, and no building or portion thereof shall be
built between this line and the street line.” The statement shall be dated and
endorsed by the subdivider and the city when the city determines that said
statement is consistent with the Zoning Chapter of the City Code and plat
approvals; and
      (17)   If any portion of the final plat is in a floodplain district, it
must conform with the platting requirements in §
153.10(F).
   (B)   Required certifications. The final plat shall contain the following:
      (1)   Notarized certification by owner or by any mortgage holder of
record of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas;
      (2)   Notarized certification by a registered land surveyor to the effect
that the plat represents a survey made by the surveyor and that monuments and
markers shown therein exist as located and that all dimensional and geodetic
details are correct;
      (3)   Certification showing that all taxes and special assessments due on
the property have been paid in full;
      (4)   Space for certificates of approval to be filled in by the
signatures of the Chairperson of the Planning Commission, the Mayor, the City
Administrator or the Administrator's designee, City Attorney and City Engineer;
      (5)   Certificate of private restrictions and trusteeships and their
period of existence. Should such restrictions and trusteeships be of such
length as to make the lettering of same on plat impractical, and thus
necessitate the preparation of a separate instrument, reference to such
instrument shall be made on the plat, and the book and page number referring to
the instrument shall be added to the plat after the restrictions or trusteeship
have been recorded; and
      (6)   The form for approval of county authorities as required.
   (C)   Final grading plan. The final grading plan shall contain the following
information and comply with the following standards.
      (1)   All requirements of the preliminary grading plan must be met.
      (2)   The current certificate of survey must be used as a base for the
preparation of the final grading, development and erosion control plan.
      (3)   Requirements for certified grading plan:
         (a)   A certified plan must be submitted within 60 days of grading
completion.
         (b)   The "as constructed" grading plan must include certification by
a registered land surveyor or engineer that all ponds, swales and drainageways
have been constructed on public easements or land owned by the city.
         (c)   The "as constructed" grading plan shall include field-verified
elevations of the following:
            1.   Cross-sections of ponds;
            2.   Location and elevations of all swales, drainageways and
emergency overflows;
            3.   All lot corners and center of house pads;
            4.   Tops of castings of rear yard catch basins.
         (d)   After construction, 1 set of drawings is to be prepared and
submitted to the city.
         (e)   Certified grading plans are to be submitted to the city on an
electronic file. The electronic file must be in AutoCAD.DWG or DXF format and
consistent with the city's standard specification manual for minimum layering
requirements.
   (D)   Erosion and sediment control plan 1. The erosion and sediment control
plan shall contain the following information and comply with the following
standards:
      (1)   The development shall conform to the natural limitations presented
by topography and soil so as to create the least potential for soil erosion.
      (2)   Erosion and siltation control measures shall be coordinated with
the different stages of construction. Appropriate control measures shall be
installed prior to development when necessary to control erosion.
      (3)   Location of all structural erosion control measures including but
not limited to the following: temporary gravel construction entrances,
temporary and permanent sediment basins, silt fence, staked bales, storm sewer
inlet filters, rock filter dikes, storm sewer outlet protection, erosion
control mats, fiber blankets and nettings.
      (4)   Locations of soil stockpile areas with temporary stabilization
measures indicated.
      (5)   Seeding specifications, including:
         (a)   Type of seeding (permanent, temporary, and dormant);
         (b)   Type of seed and application rate;
         (c)   Fertilizer type and application rate;
         (d)   Mulch type, application rate, and method of anchoring;
         (e)   Specifications for the installation and maintenance of erosion
control mats, blankets or netting and any stormwater management structures,
ponds, basins, etc.;
         (f)   Note requiring seeding to be completed within 48 hours of rough
grading with re-vegetation to occur within 48 hours of fine grading.
      (6)   Land shall be developed in increments of workable size such that
adequate erosion and siltation controls can be provided as construction
progresses. The smallest practical area of land shall be exposed at any 1
period of time.
      (7)   When soil is exposed, the exposure shall be for the shortest
feasible period of time, as specified in the development agreement.
      (8)   Where the topsoil is removed, sufficient topsoil soil shall be set
aside for re-spreading over the developed area. Topsoil shall be restored or
provided to a minimum depth of 4 inches and shall be of a quality at least
equal to the soil quality prior to development.
      (9)   Natural vegetation shall be protected wherever practical.
      (10)   Runoff water shall be diverted to a sedimentation basin before
being allowed to enter the natural drainage system.
      (11)   The developer shall comply with current city and/or all other
regulatory agencies' specifications for erosion and sediment control, including
any specifications or design standards specifically adopted to provide
additional protection to various categories of water bodies as defined in M.S.
§ 103G et seq. and Scott County WMO regulations.
      (12)   Development shall comply with and follow all best management
practices for erosion and sedimentation control as specified in the MPCA
publication "Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas," as may be amended.
   (E)   Supplementary documents. The following shall also be provided to the
city:
      (1)   Four hard copies of the subdivision as approved by the city;
      (2)   A complete set of subdivision development plans containing plans
and specifications to construct the required public improvements and to make
the subdivision suitable for development shall be filed with the city and shall
conform to city requirements;
      (3)   A certified copy of the plat evidencing filing with the county
shall be submitted to the city within 60 days after approval of the plat by the
city;
      (4)   A complete set of as-built construction drawings including an as-
built grading plan for any public improvements constructed in the subdivision
shall be furnished as soon as the construction is complete and approved by the
city. In addition, 1 digital GIS formatted copy and/or 1 electronic AutoCAD
file and 1 scanned copy for imaging shall be submitted to the city;
      (5)   Upon adoption and filing of a final plat, the city shall prepare a
street address map and distribute it to the applicant, utility companies,
Police Department, ambulance, Fire Department, post office and county;
      (6)   A disk of the recorded plat in AutoCAD or other approved format for
inclusion in the city's base map.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005; Am. Ord. 2012-11, passed 10-15-2012; Am. Ord. 2013-
05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-011, passed 8-18-2014; Am. Ord. 2020-09,
passed 1-4-2021)
§ 153.15 BASIC IMPROVEMENTS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Subdivider’s responsibility. The subdivider is responsible for the
cost and installation of the following improvements in the subdivision:
      (1)   Sanitary sewer mains and service, sufficient to serve all lots in
the subdivision, stubbed to the property line;
      (2)   Streets graded and paved in accordance with specification provided
by the City Engineer;
      (3)   Concrete curb and gutter;
      (4)   Sod in all boulevard strips;
      (5)   Storm sewers to provide a system of drainage that will adequately
remove water run-off within the subdivision;
      (6)   Water mains and service connections, sufficient to serve all lots
in the subdivision, stubbed to the property line;
      (7)   Sidewalks or trails at locations designated by the city;
      (8)    Trees planted in the boulevard or immediately adjacent thereto.
The trees shall be of a disease-resistant species approved by the city and
appropriate to the boulevard areas, shall measure at least 2 inches in diameter
as measured 1 foot off the ground and shall be at a minimum of 1 per lot. The
trees shall be of at least 2 types of disease-resistant species and 1 species
shall not exceed 50% of the total number of trees within the boulevard. The
city prefers that trees be planted 4 to 5 feet from the back of the curb and a
minimum of 50 feet from the curb of the intersection; in all events the
planting locations shall comply with the provisions of the City Code governing
trees and shrubs;
      (9)   Street signs and poles in accordance with city specifications;
      (10)   Decorative street lighting with underground wiring in accordance
with the city specifications;
      (11)   Plans for final grading and plantings of appropriate ground cover
on vacant lots may be required of the subdivider as a condition of city
acceptance of the public improvements identified in this section;
      (12)   Telephone, electric, television cable and/or gas service lines are
to be placed underground entirely. Conduits or cables shall be placed within
easements or dedicated public ways, in such a manner so as not to conflict with
other underground services. All drainage and other underground utility
installation which traverse privately owned property shall be protected by
easements. Where telephone, electric, and/or gas service lines are to be placed
underground in dedicated public streets or alleys which are to receive concrete
or bituminous surfacing, the service lines shall be installed prior to
installation of the concrete or bituminous surfacing. The Public Utility may,
at its option, defer installation of service lines provided it installs casings
at proposed crossing locations prior to installation of the concrete or
bituminous surfacing. All casings shall be buried with a minimum of 2 feet of
cover, and shall extend to a point at least 4 feet beyond the edge of pavement
or back of curb. Casing materials shall be approved by the city;
      (13)   Every buildable lot shall be identified by a sign that indicates
the lot and block number and address, if available, which is approved by city
staff prior to issuing any building permits. These signs can be removed as lots
are developed;
      (14)   Entrance areas shall be improved with weed free sod or the area
shall be controlled with hay bales or riprap to avoid erosion, as approved by
the City Engineer. The planting of trees, the type and spacing on public
property will be subject to the regulations of the City Council. No planting,
gateways, entrances and similar improvements may be made on public property
except with permission and approval of the Council.
   (B)   Monuments. No final plat shall be approved by the Council unless the
owner or subdivider shall have placed or installed survey monuments of a
permanent character at all points as shown on the final plat as required by the
City Engineer and the County Surveyor. All United States, state, county or
other official benchmarks, monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent
to the property shall be preserved in precise position. If permitted by the
County Surveyor, the subdivider may delay placement of permanent monuments
until after final grading is complete. If the County Surveyor approves the
subdivider’s request for such a delay, the subdivider shall place temporary
metal monuments at all required points prior to final plat approval by the
city.
   (C)   Participation of the city. The city may elect to install any, all, or
none of the required improvements pursuant to a cash escrow agreement or other
financial arrangement with the subdivider. The terms of these arrangements
shall be specified in the subdivision contract.
   (D)   Subdivision contract. In order to effectuate the provisions of this
chapter and before the final plat is signed by the city, the owner and
subdivider shall enter into a subdivision contract with the city providing for
the installation of the required improvements and shall pay all applicable fees
and any required cash payment.
      (1)   Subdivider’s expense. The contract shall require the subdivider to
furnish and construct the improvements at the subdivider’s sole cost and in
accordance with plans and specifications prepared at the subdivider’s expense
by a professional engineer who is registered in the State and who shall certify
the plans. The plans and a listing of the quantities of construction items
shall be submitted to the city Engineer for approval and for estimate of the
total cost of the required improvements. Upon approval, the plans shall become
a part of the required contract. The tracing of the plans approved by the
Engineer, plus 2 prints, shall be furnished to the city.
      (2)   Inspection. All required improvements shall be inspected by the
City Engineer during construction at the expense of the subdivider. The
contract shall contain a provision for supervision of details of construction
by the City Engineer and shall grant to the Engineer the authority to correlate
the work to be done under the contract by any subcontractor authorized to
proceed thereunder with any other work being done or contracted by the city in
the vicinity.
      (3)   Schedule. The contract shall include the time schedule for
completion of the work. The schedule shall be reasonable with relation to the
work to be done, the seasons of the year, and proper correlation with
construction activities in the subdivision. In all cases installation of
improvements shall be completed within 3 years unless an extension is granted
by the city.
      (4)   Park. The contract shall contain provisions for the park
dedication/cash payment.
      (5)   Financial guarantees. The contract shall require the subdivider to
provide a financial guarantee to assure installation of all required
improvements. On request of the subdivider, the contract may provide for
completion of part or all of the improvements prior to acceptance of the plat.
In such event the amount of the guarantee may be reduced by a sum equal to the
estimated cost of the improvements that have been completed and accepted by the
city. The financial guarantee required as part of the contract shall be one of
the following:
         (a)   Escrow deposit. A cash escrow deposit may be made with the City
Treasurer in a sum equal to 120% of the total cost, as estimated by the
Engineer, of all the improvements to be furnished and installed by the
subdivider pursuant to the contract. The total cost shall include costs of
inspection by the city Engineer. The city shall be entitled to reimburse itself
out of such deposit for any cost or expense incurred by the city for completion
of the work in case of default of the subdivider under the contract and for any
damages sustained on account of any breach thereof.
         (b)   Letter of credit. The subdivider may deposit with the city, from
a bank or other reputable institution or individual subject to the approval of
the city, a letter of credit which shall certify:
            1.   That the creditor does guarantee funds in an amount equal to
120% of the total cost, as estimated by the City Engineer, of completing all
required improvements;
            2.   That the creditor, in the case of failure on the part of the
subdivider to complete the specified improvements within the required time
period, shall, upon written notification by the city, immediately and without
further action pay to the city such funds as are necessary to finance the
completion of those improvements, up to the limit of credit stated in the
letter.
            3.   That this letter of credit shall not be withdrawn, reduced in
amount, revised or amended in its terms until approved by the Council.
      (6)   Other fees. Fees and charges, as well as expenses incurred by the
city for engineering, planning, legal, and other services related to the
processing of applications under this chapter shall be established by the
Council and collected by the city Administrator for deposit in the city’s
accounts. Fees shall be established for the processing of requests for
platting, major and minor subdivisions, review of plans, and such other
subdivision-related procedures as the Council may from time to time establish.
The Council may also establish charges for public hearings, special meetings,
or other such Council actions as are necessary to process applications. The
fees, charges and estimated expenses (as well as a deposit or escrow, if so
required by the City Administrator or designee) shall be collected prior to
city action on any application. All such applications shall be accompanied by a
written statement between the city and the applicant/landowner (when the
applicant is not the same person or entity as the landowner, both the landowner
and the applicant must sign the agreement) whereby the applicant/landowner
agrees to pay all applicable fees, charges and expenses as set by Council
resolution as provided above, and which allows the city to assess the above
fees, charges and expenses against the landowner if such monies are not paid
within 30 days after a bill is sent to the applicant/landowner. These fees
shall be in addition to building permit fees, inspection fees, trunk water,
trunk sanitary sewer, trunk storm water facility costs, zoning fees, charges,
expenses and other such fees, charges and expenses currently required by the
city or which may be established in the future.
      (7)   Landscape deposit. The city shall require the subdivider to deposit
in escrow an amount per lot to assure that landscaping is completed
satisfactorily. The city shall administer the landscaping deposit according to
standard city procedures.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005 ; Am. Ord. 101, Second Series, passed 12-4-2006 )
§ 153.16 REGISTERED LAND SURVEYS AND CONVEYANCE BY METES AND BOUNDS.
   (A)   Registered land survey. All registered land surveys shall be presented
to the Planning Commission in the form of a preliminary plat in accordance with
the standards set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Conveyance by metes and bounds. No conveyance of any parcel in which
the land conveyed is described by metes and bounds shall be made or recorded if
the parcels described in the conveyance are less than 40 net acres in area or
500 feet in width and unless each parcel was a separate parcel of record on
August 11, 1979.
   (C)   Council Resolution Waiving Requirements. In any case in which
compliance with the restrictions in §
153.16(B) will create an unnecessary hardship as identified by the City Council
and failure to comply will not interfere with the purpose of the Subdivision
Code under §
153.01(A), the City Council may waive such compliance by the approval of a
resolution to the effect and the conveyance may then be filed. A subdivider
desiring to subdivide land conveyed by metes and bounds shall file with the
City Administrator or the Administrator's designee an application which shall
consist of the following:
      (1)   A completed application form, the required filing fee established
by the city, and documents demonstrating sufficient ownership, control or
authorization in the applicant to apply for the subdivision.
      (2)   At least 1 full size (at least 22 inch x 34 inch) copy of the
survey plan and a digital copy, plus any additional copies deemed necessary by
the city, prepared by a registered land surveyor.
      (3)   A written statement identifying the hardship involved and stating
how the proposed conveyance will not interfere with the purposes of the
Subdivision Code.
   (D)   Division or consolidation of platted lots. Neither a lot which is part
of a recorded plat nor a tract which is part of a recorded registered land
survey may be divided or consolidated into another lot or tract until the
following conditions have been met.
      (1)   The owner(s) of such platted lot(s) or tract(s) to be so divided
shall file with the Community Development Director, or designee, an application
for such division or consolidation together with a proposed survey plat or
registered land survey of the lot or lots to be divided or consolidated. The
plat or survey shall show the dimensions of the lots as measured upon the
record plat and also the proposed division or consolidation thereof. A written
description of the separately described tract or tracts which will result from
the proposed division or consolidation shall be filed with such plat or survey.
The plat or survey shall also show the location of all buildings then existing
and all proposed structures to be built upon the lot or lots to be divided or
consolidated.
      (2)   Conformity. The developer shall make every effort to minimize the
degree of nonconformity with existing lot and area requirements and setback
requirements. Lot lines shall be arranged to provide the largest possible
setbacks between structures that will become the principal structures on the
newly created lots. Accessory buildings shall be moved or removed when and
where possible to create the lowest, most uniform density possible.
      (3)    Density. The conversion shall not result in an increase in
residential density, unless the residential density requirements of the
applicable zoning district are met.
      (4)   Upon receipt by the city of the application and plat or survey as
required in division (D)(1) above, and in accordance with M.S. Ch. 515B
governing Common Interest Communities, as applicable, and upon payment by the
applicant of the fee, the City Administrator or the Administrator's designee
shall make a physical inspection of the lot or lots proposed to be divided or
consolidated.
      (5)   Following said physical inspection, the application shall be acted
upon by the Council.
      (6)   No building permit shall be issued in the event an owner or owners
shall fail to comply with this section in making a division or consolidation of
lands included in recorded plats.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005; Am. Ord. 2024-02, passed 3-11-2024)
§ 153.17 VARIANCES.
   (A)   General conditions. A variance to the literal provisions of this Code
may be issued to provide a modification or variation where it is determined
that their strict enforcement would cause practical difficulties. No use
variances may be issued. No variance will be issued that would allow a lower
degree of flood protection than the flood-protection elevation.
   (B)   Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 6, as it may be amended from time to
time, the Planning Commission, acting as a Board of Appeals and Adjustments,
may recommend the City Council issue variances from the provisions of this
Code. A variance is a modification or variation of the literal provisions of
the Code as applied to a specific piece of property.
   (C)   Variances shall only be permitted:
      (1)   When they are in harmony with the general purposes and intent of
the ordinance; and
      (2)   When the variances are consistent with the comprehensive plan.
   (D)   Variances may be granted when the applicant for the variance
establishes that there are practical difficulties in complying with the Zoning
Ordinance.
   (E)   PRACTICAL DIFFICULTIES, as used in connection with the granting of a
variance, means that:
      (1)   The property owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable
manner not permitted by the Zoning Ordinance;
      (2)   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the
property not created by the landowner; and
      (3)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the locality.
Economic considerations alone do not constitute practical difficulties. A
variance will not be permitted for any use that is not allowed under the Zoning
Ordinance for property in the zone where the affected person's land is located.
The Board may impose conditions in the granting of variances. A condition must
be directly related to and must bear a rough proportionality to the impact
created by the variance.
   (F)   Action on request.
      (1)   The Board of Appeals and Adjustments shall hold a public hearing on
the variance request. The procedures for the notice and public hearing shall be
the same as that described in M.S. § 462.357, except that the public hearing
shall be held by the Board.
      (2)   The Board may recommend to the City Council and the City Council
may grant approval or approval with conditions, or denial of the request. In
considering a request for a variance and whether the applicant established that
there are practical difficulties in complying with provision(s) of this
chapter, the Board and City Council shall consider the following factors:
         (a)   Special conditions applying to the structures or land in
question that are particular to the property and do not apply generally to
other land or structures in the district or vicinity in which the land is
located;
         (b)   The granting of the proposed variance will not be contrary to
the intent of this chapter;
         (c)   The special conditions or circumstances do not result from the
actions of the owner/applicant;
         (d)   The granting of the variance will not merely serve as a
convenience to the applicant, but is necessary to alleviate practical
difficulties in complying with the zoning provisions of this Code; and
         (e)   The variance requested is the minimum variance necessary to
alleviate the practical difficulty.
      (3)   The Council may grant the variance and impose certain conditions
and safeguards therein which are directly related to and bear a rough
proportionality to the impact created by the variance. The variance, however,
may not be granted for a use that is otherwise not allowed in a particular
zoning district, that is inconsistent with the comprehensive guide plan, or
that is not in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the zoning
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005; Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-
011, passed 8-18-2014)
§ 153.18 AMENDMENTS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be amended by the City Council
following a legally advertised public hearing before the Planning Commission
and in accordance with the law, including the rules and regulations of any
applicable state or federal agency. An amendment to this chapter may be
initiated by public request, the Planning Commission or City Council.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005)
§ 153.19 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   Sale of lots from unrecorded plats. It is unlawful to sell, trade or
otherwise convey or offer to sell, trade or otherwise convey any lot or parcel
of land as a part of, or in conformity with, any plan, plat or replat of any
subdivision or portion of the city unless said plan, plat or replat has first
been recorded in the office of the County Recorder or Registrar of Titles.
   (B)   Misrepresentations. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
owning an addition or subdivision of land within the city to represent that any
improvement required as of the subdivision and specified in the subdivision
contract has been constructed according to the plans and specifications
approved by the Council or has been supervised or inspected by the city when
such improvements have not been so constructed, supervised or inspected.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005) Penalty, §
153.99
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Every person violates a section, division or provision of this chapter when
he or she performs an act thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, or fails to
act when such failure is thereby prohibited or declared unlawful, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except as otherwise
stated in specific provisions hereof.
(Ord. 85, passed 4- -2005)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING
Section
   
154.010   Intent and purpose
   
154.020   Definitions
General Provisions
   
154.031   Application
   
154.032   Existing lots
   
154.033   Existing nonconforming uses
   
154.034   Zoning coordination
   
154.035   Zoning and the comprehensive plan
Administration
   
154.041   Enforcing officer
   
154.042   Planning Commission
   
154.043   Board of Adjustment and Appeals
   
154.044   Park and Recreation Commission
   
154.045   Design Review Committee
   
154.046   Zoning amendment
   
154.047   Conditional use permit
   
154.048   Variances
   
154.049   Filing with the county
   
154.050   Building permit
   
154.051   Interim use permit
   
154.052   Site plan review
   
154.053   Opt-out of M.S. § 462.3593
Zoning Districts and Provisions
   
154.061   Zoning districts
   
154.062   Zoning map
Single-Family Residential District (R-1)
   
154.081   Purpose
   
154.082   Permitted uses
   
154.083   Conditional uses
   
154.084   Accessory uses and structures
   
154.085   Lot requirements
   
154.086   Design and performance standards
Medium Density Residential Single-Family District (R-2)
   
154.091   Purpose
   
154.092   Permitted uses
   
154.093   Conditional uses
   
154.094   Accessory uses and structures
   
154.095   Lot requirements
   
154.096   Design and performance standards
Townhouse and Multiple-Family Residential District (R-3)
   
154.101   Purpose
   
154.102   Permitted uses
   
154.103   Conditional uses
   
154.104   Accessory uses and structures
   
154.105   Lot requirements
   
154.106   Design and performance standards
Multiple-Family Residential District (R-4)
   
154.111   Purpose
   
154.112   Permitted uses
   
154.113   Conditional uses
   
154.114   Accessory uses and structures
   
154.115   Lot requirements
   
154.116   Design and performance standards
Manufactured Home District (R-5)
   
154.121   Purpose
   
154.122   Permitted uses
   
154.123   Conditional uses
   
154.124   Permitted accessory uses
   
154.125   Lot requirements
   
154.126   Design and performance standards
   
154.127   Exception
   
154.128   Application
   
154.129   Required application materials
Neighborhood Business District (C-1)
   
154.131   Purpose
   
154.132   Permitted uses
   
154.133   Conditional uses
   
154.134   Accessory uses
   
154.135   Lot requirements
   
154.136   Design and performance standards
Central Business District (C-2)
   
154.141   Purpose
   
154.142   Permitted uses
   
154.143   Conditional uses
   
154.144   Interim uses
   
154.145   Accessory uses
   
154.146   Lot requirements
   
154.147   Design and performance standards
   
154.148   Other controls
Highway Commercial District (C-3)
   
154.151   Purpose
   
154.152   Permitted uses
   
154.153   Conditional uses
   
154.154   Interim uses
   
154.155   Accessory uses
   
154.156   Lot requirements
   
154.157   Design and performance standards
   
154.158   Variances
   
154.159   Minor subdivisions
Light Industrial District (I-1)
   
154.161   Purpose
   
154.162   Permitted uses
   
154.163   Conditional uses
   
154.164   Interim uses
   
154.165   Permitted accessory uses
   
154.166   Lot requirements
   
154.167   Design and performance standards
General Industrial District (I-2)
   
154.171   Purpose
   
154.172   Permitted uses
   
154.173   Conditional uses
   
154.174   Interim uses
   
154.175   Permitted accessory uses
   
154.176   Lot requirements
   
154.177   Design and performance standards
Conservancy District (CD)
   
154.181   Purpose
   
154.182   Application
   
154.183   Permitted uses
   
154.184   Conditional uses
Planned Unit Development District (PUD)
   
154.191   Purpose
   
154.192   Objectives
   
154.193   Types of permitted planned unit developments
   
154.194   General requirements and standards
   
154.195   Operating and maintenance requirements for PUD common open space and
service facilities
   
154.196   PUD process
   
154.197   PUD data requirements
   
154.198   Amendments and administration
   
154.199   Adopted PUD overlay districts
Off-street Parking and Loading Spaces
   
154.221   Purpose
   
154.222   Application of off-street parking regulations
   
154.223   General provisions
   
154.224   Design and maintenance of off-street parking areas
   
154.225   Number of required off-street parking spaces
   
154.226   Bonuses
   
154.227   Bicycle and motorcycle parking
   
154.228   Off-street loading facilities
   
154.229   Parking deferment
   
154.230   Proof of parking
Signs
   
154.241   Purpose and findings
   
154.242   Exempt signs
   
154.243   Prohibited signs
   
154.244   General provisions
   
154.245   Sign height and area requirement
   
154.246   Calculation of sign area
   
154.247   Setbacks
   
154.248   Special provisions
   
154.249   Residential districts
   
154.250   Commercial districts
   
154.251   Industrial districts
   
154.252   Multi-tenant building
   
154.253   Planned unit development
   
154.254   Permit required
   
154.255   Construction requirements
   
154.256   Non-commercial speech
   
154.257   Non-conforming signs: compliance
   
154.258   Substitution clause
   
154.259   Definitions
   
154.260   Severability
Shoreland Overlay District
   
154.281   Definitions
   
154.282   Purpose
   
154.283   District application
   
154.284   Shoreland classification system
   
154.285   Permitted uses
   
154.286   Conditional uses
   
154.287   Accessory uses
   
154.288   Lot area requirements
   
154.289   Setbacks
   
154.290   Height requirements
   
154.291   Impervious surface coverage requirements
   
154.292   Special requirements for commercial use
   
154.293   Other requirements
   
154.294   Notification procedures
   
154.295   Planned unit developments
   
154.296   Conversions to planned unit developments
   
154.297   Nonconforming uses and nonconforming structures
Aviation Requirements
   
154.301   Notification required
   
154.302   Proof of notification
Architectural Control and Building Materials
   
154.311   Purpose
   
154.312   Building materials
   
154.313   General requirements
   
154.314   Review board
   
154.315   Review board function
   
154.316   Approval required
General Landscaping Requirements
   
154.321   Landscape fee
   
154.322   Landscape escrow
   
154.323   Landscaping and required yards/setbacks
   
154.324   Landscape requirements residential
   
154.325   Landscape requirements commercial and industrial
   
154.326   Native plantings
Stormwater Management
   
154.331   Statutory authorization
   
154.332   Purpose and application
   
154.333   Comprehensive surface water management plan procedural requirements
   
154.334   General standards
   
154.335   Stormwater management
   
154.336   Erosion and sediment control
   
154.337   Wetlands
   
154.338   Bridge and culvert crossings
   
154.339   Drainage alterations
   
154.340   Groundwater
   
154.341   Security
Satellite Dishes and Other Dishes
   
154.351   Conformance required
   
154.352   General requirements
Residential Pools and Spas
   
154.361   Definitions
   
154.362   Construction
   
154.363   Fencing
   
154.364   Permit required
Home Occupations
   
154.371   Purpose
   
154.372   Regulations
   
154.373   Permitted home occupation
   
154.374   Special home occupation
   
154.375   General provisions
   
154.376   Existing non-conforming home occupations
   
154.377   Inspection
   
154.378   Violations
Towers
   
154.381   Purpose and intent
   
154.382   Amateur radio towers
   
154.383   Tower locations
   
154.384   Tower setbacks
   
154.385   Tower lighting
   
154.386   Co-location required
   
154.387   Structural and landscaping requirements
   
154.388   Abandoned or unused towers or antennas
   
154.389   Public safety telecommunication interference
Alternative Energy Systems
   
154.391   Purpose
   
154.392   Ground source heat pump systems
   
154.393   Wind energy systems
   
154.394   Solar energy systems
Floodplain Districts
General Regulations
   
154.500   Statutory authorization
   
154.501   Statement of purpose
   
154.502   Lands to which subchapter applies
   
154.503   Incorporation of maps by reference
   
154.504   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
154.505   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
154.506   Severability
   
154.507   Annexations
Zoning Districts
   
154.508   Establishment of districts
   
154.509   Applicability
   
154.510   Permits required
   
154.511   Minimum development standards
   
154.512   Floodway District (FW)
   
154.513   Flood Fringe District (FF)
   
154.514   Reserved
Other Standards
   
154.515   Subdivision standards
   
154.516   Manufactured homes
   
154.517   Recreational vehicles
   
154.518   Utilities
   
154.519   Public transportation facilities
   
154.520   On-site water supply and sewage treatment systems
Administration
   
154.521   Permit application requirements
   
154.522   Variances
   
154.523   Conditional uses
   
154.524   Continuance of nonconformities
   
154.525   Violations and penalties
   
154.526   Amendments
 
   
154.999   Violation and misdemeanor
§ 154.010 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   This chapter divides the city into zoning districts, establishes minimum
requirements to achieve its intent and purpose, and establishes regulations
which control the location, erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration
and use of structures and land. The intent and purpose of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort, convenience, and
general welfare of the people;
   (B)   Promote the most appropriate and orderly development of land for
residential, commercial, industrial, recreational, and public uses and to
protect such areas from the intrusion of incompatible uses;
   (C)   Protect and preserve the natural environment of the city;
   (D)   Encourage the protection of historic, aesthetic, and natural resources
in the city;
   (E)   Encourage energy conservation through the use of alternative energy
systems;
   (F)   Promote phased development of residential, commercial, industrial, and
recreational lands;
   (G)   Conserve the value of land and buildings;
   (H)   Foster a strong and balanced tax base;
   (I)   Promote orderly redevelopment where appropriate;
   (J)   Provide adequate light, air and convenient access to property;
   (K)   Prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of structures by
regulating the use of land and buildings, the bulk of buildings in relation to
the land surrounding them, and the density of dwelling units;
   (L)   Require developments to have adequate provision for city water, city
public sanitary sewer, and other public services;
   (M)   Prevent or limit congestion in the public rights-of-way;
   (N)   Provide flood control measures and protect shorelands;
   (O)   Protect against fire, dust, smoke, explosion, noxious fumes, offensive
noise, vibration, odors, heat, glare, and other hazards or nuisances;
   (P)   Ensure that development and redevelopment occurs in accordance with
goals, policies, and plans established in the city's Comprehensive Plan;
   (Q)   Provide at least minimum off-street parking and loading facilities;
   (R)   Permit adequate signage for effective communication while minimizing
or preventing visual clutter and visual pollution;
   (S)   Provide reasonable development standards for functional and aesthetic
aspects of buildings and structures; and
   (T)   Provide effective administration and enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.020 DEFINITIONS.
   The following terms, as used in this chapter, shall have the meanings
stated. All measured distances expressed in feet shall be to the nearest tenth
of a foot. In the event of conflicting provisions in this chapter, the more
restrictive shall apply.
   ABUTTING OR ADJACENT. Physically touching or bordering upon, or sharing
common property line or border. Abutting or adjacent properties or land uses
include those that are separated by a drive, street, or other publicly-
dedicated right-of-way.
   ACCESS. A way or means to provide physical entrance to a property.
   ACCESSORY USE OR STRUCTURE. A use or structure in the same lot with, and of,
a nature customarily incidental and subordinate to, the principal use or
structure.
   ACTIVE RECREATION. Physical activities and/or land uses involving relatively
vigorous physical exertion, such as playgrounds, sports fields and courts,
swimming, and hiking.
   ACTIVE SOLAR SYSTEM. A solar energy system that requires external mechanical
power to move the collected heat.
   ADULT. A person who is 18 years old or older.
   ADULT DAY CARE or ADULT DAY SERVICES or FAMILY ADULT DAY SERVICE. A program
operating less than 24 hours per day that provides functionally impaired adults
with an individualized and coordinated set of services including health
services, social services, and nutritional services that are directed at
maintaining or improving the participants' capabilities for self-care. Adult
day care does not include programs where adults gather or congregate primarily
for purposes of socialization, education, supervision, caregiver respite,
religious expression, exercise, or nutritious meals.
   ADULT USE. Any of the activities and businesses described below constitutes
"adult use" which is subject to the regulations of this section:
      (1)   ADULT BOOK, MEDIA OR MERCHANDISE STORE. An establishment having at
least 20% of its stock in trade or stock on display, including any, but not
limited to, books, magazines, films, videotape or other media or merchandise
which are characterized by emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or
relating to "Specified Sexual Activities" or "Specified Anatomical Areas."
      (2)   ADULT THEATRE. An enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or more
persons used regularly and routinely for presenting live entertainment or
motion pictures, including but not limited to film and videotape, having as a
dominant theme material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to "Specified Sexual Activities" or
"Specified Anatomical Areas" for observation by patrons within.
      (3)   ADULT MINI THEATRE. An enclosed building with a capacity for less
than 50 persons used for presenting motion pictures, including but not limited
to film and videotape, having as a dominant theme material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
"Specified Sexual Activities" or "Specified Anatomical Areas."
      (4)   BUSINESS WITH THE FOLLOWING DOMINANT THEMES. Any business or
building which presents motion pictures, including films and videotapes, having
as a dominant theme material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing or relating to "Specified Sexual Activities" or
"Specified Anatomical Areas" for viewing on the premises, including but not
limited to private booths, viewing by means of coin operated or other
mechanical devices and the viewing of excerpts of motion pictures offered for
sale or rent.
         (a)   Specified sexual activities are any of the following conditions:
            1.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
            2.   Acts or explicit representations of acts of human
masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation or
flagellation.
            3.   Fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breast.
            4.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any
activities set forth in the above.
         (b)   Specified anatomical areas are any of the following conditions:
            1.   Less than completely and opaquely covered (1) human genitals;
pubic region or pubic hair; (2) buttock; and (3) female breast below a point
immediately above the top of the areola; and
            2.   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
opaquely covered.
   AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY. The use of land for the growing and/or production and
wholesale distribution of field crops, livestock, and livestock products for
the production of income or own use, including but not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Field crops, including but not limited to, barley, beans, corn,
hay, oats, potatoes, rye, sorghum, and sunflowers.
      (2)   Livestock, including but not limited to, dairy and beef cattle,
goats, sheep, hogs, horses, poultry, game birds and other animals including
deer, rabbits and mink.
      (3)   Livestock products, including but not limited to, milk, butter,
cheese, eggs, meat, fur and honey.
      (4)   Trees, shrubs, bushes, and plants for wholesale distribution.
      (5)   Sod farming.
   AGRICULTURAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. Any building or structure, with the
exception of dwelling units, which is used principally for agricultural
activities.
   ALLEY. A public right-of-way which affords a secondary means of access to
abutting property.
   ALTERATION. As applied to a building or structure, is a change or
rearrangement in structural parts, or enlargement or the moving from one
location to another. When used in connection with public waters or wetlands, is
any activity that will change or diminish the course, current or cross-section
of public waters or wetlands.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms with cooking facilities which is
occupied as a residence by 1 family or a group of individuals living together
as a single-family unit. This includes any unit in a building with more than 2
dwelling units.
   APPLICANT. Any person who wishes to obtain a building permit, zoning, or
subdivision approval, or a permit to allow land-disturbing activities.
Applicant also means that person's agents, employees, and others acting under
this person's direction.
   AGRICULTURAL CONTROL AND BUILDING MATERIALS REVIEW BOARD (REVIEW BOARD). A
board established by the city that consist of the following city officials:
City Administrator or designee, Zoning Administrator, and Building Inspector to
review building plans to determine if such plans are consistent with the
architectural controls and building materials provisions of this chapter.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A housing development with general services and
also provides assisted living services that are subject to the requirements of
M.S. Chapter 144G Assisted Living Services.
   AUTO REDUCTION YARD (MOTOR VEHICLE REDUCTION YARD. A lot or yard where 1 or
more unlicensed motor vehicle, or the remains thereof, is kept for dismantling,
wrecking, crushing, repairing, rebuilding, sale of parts, sale as scrap,
storage or abandonment. (See also JUNK YARD).
   AUTO REPAIR MAJOR. General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines,
motor vehicles, or trailers including body work, frame work and major painting
service.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A building or any portion thereof designed
primarily to supply fuel, oil, lubrication and accessories for motor vehicles.
   AUTOMOTIVE SERVICE CENTER. A facility for the sale, service, and repair or
replacement of any 1 or more of the following: tires, batteries, brakes,
transmissions, shock absorbers, exhaust systems and similar parts, including
engine tune up, wheel balancing, and alignment, but not including body repair,
painting, engine rebuilding, or tire capping.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year. “Base flood” is synonymous with the term “regional flood” as used
in Minnesota Rules, Part 6120.5000.
   BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE). The elevation of the base flood or 1% annual
chance flood. The term “base flood elevation” is used in the flood insurance
study.
   BASEMENT. Any area of a structure, including crawl spaces, having its floor
or base sub-grade (below ground level) on all 4 sides, regardless of the depth
of excavation below ground level.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An owner-occupied principal dwelling in which 5 or less
rooms are rented on a nightly basis for a period of less than 7 days. Meals may
or may not be provided to guests.
   BERM. A mound of earth with elevation generally above the surrounding area.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Erosion and sediment control and water
quality management practices that are the most effective and practicable means
of controlling, preventing and minimizing the degradation of surface water,
including construction-phasing, minimizing the length of time soil areas are
exposed, prohibitions, and other management practices published by state or
designated area-wide planning agencies. Techniques proven to be effective in
controlling runoff, erosion and sedimentation including those documented in the
Minnesota Construction Site Erosion and Sediment Control Planning Handbook
(BWSR, 1988); Protecting Water Quality in Urban Areas (MPCA, 2000); the
Minnesota Urban Small Sites BMP Manual (Metropolitan Council 2001); and other
sources as approved by the City of Jordan, as such documents may be amended,
revised or supplemented.
   BLADE. The extensions from the hub of a wind energy conversion system which
are designed to catch the wind and turn the motor to generate electricity.
   BLOCK. A tract of land consisting of 1 or more lots as identified on a plat
and bounded by plat boundaries, public ways, outlots, parks, or bodies of
water.
   BLOCK, FRONT. The distance between intersections along 1 side of a street.
   BLUFF. A topographical feature such as a hill, cliff, or embankment in which
the average grade of any portion of the slope is 30% or greater and there is at
least a 25-foot rise in elevation.
   BLUFF FACE. The area between the toe of the bluff and the top of the bluff.
   BLUFF IMPACT ZONE. A 25-foot zone at the top of a bluff.
   BLUFF OVERLAY DISTRICT. The Overlay District shown on Map 1: "Scott County
Wetlands & Bluff Areas Map" where potential bluffs exist. This map is located
in Appendix A of the Jordan Comprehensive Surface Water Management Plan.
   BLUFF, TOE OF. The lower side of a bluff where the average slope levels off
to 18% or less.
   BLUFF, TOP OF. The point on a bluff where there is, as visually observed, a
clearly identifiable break in the slope, from steeper to gentler slope above.
If no break in slope is apparent, the top of the bluff shall be determined as
the highest end of a 50 foot segment that exceeds 18% slope.
   BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS. A board established by the city to hear and
decide appeals regarding zoning and having powers set forth is M.S. § 462.357
and M.S. § 462.359. The Planning Commission shall serve as the Board of
Adjustment and Appeals. See §
31.22 of the City Code.
   BOARDER. An individual, other than a member of the family of the owner, who
occupies the dwelling unit or part thereof, who, for consideration, is
furnished other services which may include meals.
   BOARDING (ROOMING OR LODGING) HOUSE. A building, other than a motel or
hotel, where, for compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods,
meals or lodgings are provided for at least 3, but not more than 20, persons.
   BREWERY, MICRO-DISTILLERY, MICRO-BREWERY, MICRO-WINERY or TAP ROOM. A small
scaled on- or off-sale liquor business, located in a building where the primary
use is for restaurant, retail, or tasting room, and which specializes in
producing limited quantities of wine, beer, or other alcoholic beverages as
regulated by
Chapter 111 of the City Code, Alcoholic Beverages.
   BROWNFIELD. Abandoned, idled, or under-utilized industrial and/or commercial
facilities where expansion or redevelopment is complicated by real or perceived
environmental contamination from past business practices.
   BUFFER. Land area used to visibly separate 1 area from another or to shield
or block noise, lights or other nuisances, or an area of natural, unmaintained,
undisturbed ground cover abutting or surrounding a water course, public waters
wetland, or wetland.
   BUILDING. Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattel or movable property of any kind, and includes any
structure.
   BUILDING FACE. That portion of the exterior wall of a structure which shall
be determined by an exterior angle of at least 210 degrees formed by 2 exterior
walls, each being at least 18 feet in length.
   BUILDING HEIGHT, ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. The highest point of an accessory
structure. The highest point of the entire accessory structure cannot exceed
the height of the primary structure. See §§
154.084,
154.094,
154.104, and
154.114 for full requirements.
   BUILDING HEIGHT, PRINCIPAL. The vertical distance as measured on a principal
structure from the average grade of a building line to: the cornice of a flat
roof, the deck line of a mansard roof, the uppermost point on a round or other
arch-type roof or the mean distance of the highest gable on a pitched or hip
roof.
   BUILDING LINE, SHORELAND. A line measured across the width of a lot where
the main structure is placed in accordance with setback provisions from the
ordinary high-water mark.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to the street right-of-way line, and
ordinary high water level, if applicable, at its closest point to any story
level of a building and representing the minimum distance which all or part of
the building is set back from the right-of-way line, or ordinary high water
level.
   BUILT ENVIRONMENT. The sum of the parts of a community's physical
surroundings formed and shaped by human activity, including buildings,
structures, landscaping, earth mounds, roads, signs, trails, and utilities.
   BUSINESS. Any activity, occupation, sale of goods or services, or
transaction that is either licensed or regulated, or both licensed and
regulated.
   BWSR. The Minnesota Board of Water and Soil Resources.
   CAMPGROUND. Public or private land or premises used or occupied for
compensation by campers.
   CANNABIS DELIVERY. A business which purchases cannabis, cannabis products,
and hemp products from retailers or cannabis business with retail endorsements
for transport and delivery to customers.
   CANNABIS MANUFACTURING. A facility that is a cannabis business with a
Minnesota state license or endorsement authorizing the creation of cannabis
concentrate and the manufacture of cannabis products and hemp-derived consumer
products for public consumption.
   CANNABIS SALES, RETAIL. A cannabis business which sells immature cannabis
plants and seedlings, cannabis, cannabis products, hemp products, and other
products authorized by law to customers.
   CANNABIS SALES, WHOLESALE. A business which purchases and/or sells immature
cannabis plants and seedlings, cannabis, cannabis products, and hemp products
from another licensed cannabis business. Wholesalers may also import hemp-
derived consumer products and lower-potency hemp edibles.
   CANNABIS TESTING FACILITY. A business which obtains and tests immature
cannabis plants and seedlings, cannabis, cannabis products, and hemp products
from licensed cannabis businesses.
   CANNABIS TRANSPORTER. A business which transports immature cannabis plants
and seedlings, cannabis, cannabis products, and hemp products to licensed
cannabis businesses.
   CANOPY. Any structure, movable or stationary, attached to and supported by
the building and projecting over property.
   CARPORT. An automobile shelter enclosed on not more than 2 sides. A carport
is not a garage.
   CELLAR. That portion of the building having more than ½ of its ground floor-
to-ceiling height below the average grade of the adjoining ground.
   CHANNEL. The natural or artificial depression of perceptible extent along
Sand Creek with a definite bed and bank to confine and conduct flowing water
either continuously or periodically.
   CHILD. A person who has not reached age 18.
   CHURCH OR SYNAGOGUE. See RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS.
   CITY. The City of Jordan.
   CLEAR CUTTING. The entire removal of a stand of trees or vegetation.
   CLEARING or CLEAR. The trimming and/or removal, as appropriate, and the
proper disposal of vegetation.
   CLUB OR LODGE. A non-profit association of persons who are bona fide members
paying annual dues, use of premises being restricted to members and their
guests and where there is no on-sale liquor.
   CLUSTER HOUSING. The development pattern and technique whereby structures
are arranged in closely related groups to make the most efficient use of the
natural amenities of the land, while providing a unified network of open space
and aesthetically pleasing areas and meeting the overall density regulations of
this chapter and the Zoning Ordinance.
   COLLECTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle manufactured between and including the
years 1925 and 1948, and designated by the registrar of motor vehicles as a
classic car because of its fine design, high engineering standards, and
superior workmanship, and owned and operated solely as a collector's item, and/
or any motor vehicle including any truck that is at least 20 model years old,
was manufactured after 1935 and is owned and operated solely as a collector's
vehicle.
   COMMERCIAL USE. The principal use of land or buildings for the sale, lease,
rental, or trade of products, goods, and services.
   COMMISSIONER. The Commissioner of the Department of Natural Resources or
Department of Public Safety. Appointed members of the Watershed Board or the
Watershed Planning Commission.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. Any open space, including parks, nature areas,
playgrounds, trails, and recreational buildings and structures, which is an
integral part of a development and is not owned on an individual basis by each
owner of the dwelling unit.
   COMPENSATOR STORAGE. Excavated volume of material below the floodplain
elevation required to offset floodplain fill.
   COMPREHENSIVE PLAN. A compilation of goals, policy statements, standards,
programs, and maps for guiding the physical, social, and economic development,
both public and private, of the city and its environs. The plan includes any
unit or part of the plan separately adopted and any amendment to the plan or
parts thereof.
   COMPREHENSIVE SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. The City of Jordan's
Comprehensive Surface Water Management Plan prepared to meet requirements of
the Scott Watershed Management Organization. Adopted and implemented in
accordance with M.S. § 103B.231 and Minnesota Rules 8410 for Local Water
Management.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A specific type of structure or land use listed in the
official control that may be allowed but only after restrictions as provided in
the official control or building codes and upon a finding that: (1) certain
conditions as detailed in this chapter exist; (2) insofar as practicable,
conditions specific to each designated conditional use; and (3) the structure
and/or land use conform to the comprehensive plan and are compatible with the
existing neighborhood.
   CONDOMINIUM. Real estate in which (1) separately described portions of a
multi-unit building are designated as units and each unit is designated for
separate ownership; (2) the remainder of the real estate, which may include
portions of the multi-unit building, is designated for common ownership (common
elements) solely by the owners of the units; and (3) undivided interests in the
common elements are vested in the unit owners.
   CONFORMING LOT. A lot or parcel legally existing on the effective date of
this chapter which meets the minimum lot width and lot area requirements of
this chapter.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. A disturbance to the land that results in a change in
the topography, existing soil cover (both vegetative and non-vegetative), or
the existing soil topography that may result in accelerated storm water runoff,
leading to soil erosion and the movement of sediment into surface waters or
drainage systems.
   CONTROL MEASURE. A practice or combination of practices to control erosion
and attendant pollution.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A store containing less than 15,000 square feet and which
sells any 1 or a combination of the following: groceries, pharmaceutical,
bakery goods, dairy products, hardware, and variety store items.
   CONVENTIONAL ENERGY SYSTEM. Any energy system, including supply elements,
furnaces, burners, tanks, boilers, related controls and energy-distribution
components, which uses any source of energy other than solar or windmills.
These sources include but are not limited to gas, oil, coal, and nuclear
materials.
   COOPERATIVE. Real estate owned by an association, each of whose members is
entitled to a proprietary lease in a unit located on the real estate by virtue
of the member's ownership interest in the association.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of Jordan, Minnesota.
   COUNTY. Scott County, Minnesota.
   CURB LEVEL. The grade elevation established by the city of the curb in front
of the center of a building. Where no curb level has been established, the
engineering staff shall determine a curb level or its equivalent for the
purpose of this chapter.
   DAY CARE FACILITY. A facility which provides 1 of the following services:
Care of a child in a residence outside the child's own home for gain or
otherwise, on a regular basis for any part of a 24-hour day; or care for adults
offering a program less than 24 hours per day that provides functionally
impaired adults with an individualized and coordinated set of services
including health services, social services, and nutritional services that are
aimed at maintaining or improving the participants' capabilities for self-care.
This does not include programs where adults gather or congregate primarily for
purposes of socialization, education, supervision, caregiver respite, religious
expression, exercise, or nutritious meals.
   dB (DECIBEL). The usual unit for measuring the relative loudness of sound.
   DEAD STORAGE. The permanent pool volume of a water basin, or the volume
below the runout elevation of a water basin.
   DECK. A structure which is either freestanding or attached to a principal or
accessory structure, constructed at grade or above grade, intended or designed
for use as outdoor living space and unenclosed by solid or non-solid walls or a
roof.
   DENSITY. A measurement of the amount of development located on a tract of
land or within an area. For residential, density is measured by the number of
dwelling units per acre. For non-residential development, density is measured
by the gross square foot area of building(s) per acre, which can be expressed
in the form of a number (i.e., 10,000 square feet per acre) or by floor area
ratio (i.e., 0.25). See also FLOOR AREA RATIO (FAR).
   DEPARTMENT STORE. A store selling a wide variety of goods arranged in
several departments.
   DESIGN REVIEW BOARD. A board established by the city to review design
guidelines and standards to determine if such plans are consistent with design
manuals and provisions of this chapter.
   DESIGN STANDARD. Specific criteria and limitations placed on development and
uses which are intended to protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
   DETENTION BASIN. A facility designed to temporarily store runoff from
rainfall or snow melt, releasing the stored water at a controlled rate until
the basin is empty. The outlet or control structure is located at the bottom of
the facility so that the basin is dry after the runoff event.
   DETENTION FACILITY. A permanent natural or man-made structure, including
wetlands, for the temporary storage of runoff which contains a permanent pool
of water.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading,
paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or
materials.
   DEWATERING. The removal of water for construction activity.
   DIRECT SUNLIGHT. Sunlight unobstructed by any improvement or tree within the
solar access space.
   DRAIN OR DRAINAGE. Any method for removing or diverting water from water
bodies, including excavation of an open ditch, installation of subsurface
drainage tile, filling, diking, or pumping.
   DRIVE IN. Any use where products and/or services are provided to a customer
in such a manner that the customer does not have to leave the vehicle
regardless of whether service is also provided within a building.
   DRIVE THROUGH. Any use providing the opportunity of selling, serving, or
offering goods or services directly to customers in vehicles.
   DRIVEWAY. A minor private or public way used by vehicles and pedestrians on
an individual lot or parcel of land.
   DWELLING. A building or 1 or more portions thereof occupied or intended to
be occupied exclusively for residence purposes, but not including rooms in
motels, hotels, nursing homes, boarding houses, nor trailers, tents, cabins,
trailer coaches, or houseboats.
   DWELLING UNIT. A residential building or portion thereof consisting of 1 or
more rooms, which include toilet and cooking facilities and a sleeping area,
physically arranged so as to create an independent housekeeping establishment
intended for occupancy by 1 family, but not including hotels, motels, boarding
or rooming houses or tourist homes. The principal types are:
      (1)   SINGLE-FAMILY. A free-standing (detached) residence structure
designed for or occupied by 1 family only.
      (2)   TWO FAMILY. A residence structure, commonly referred to as a
duplex, designed for or occupied by not more than 2 families, with separate
housekeeping and cooking facilities for each.
      (3)   TOWNHOUSE. A single-family dwelling unit constructed in a group of
2 or more similar single-family dwelling units, with no other unit above it or
below it, with each unit extending from the foundation to the roof, with each
unit having a private entrance, and designed for not more than 1 family.
      (4)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A residence designed for or occupied by 3 or more
families, either wholly (attached) or partially (detached), with separate
housekeeping and cooking facilities for each.
      (5)   MULTIPLE-FAMILY, SENIOR CITIZEN. See SENIOR CITIZEN HOUSING.
   DWELLING, ATTACHED. A dwelling unit which is joined to another dwelling or
building at 1 or more sides by a party wall or walls.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the owner of land to the general public or to others
for a specific use of the land.
   ESC. Erosion and Sediment Control.
   EDUCATIONAL FACILITY; SCHOOL FOR THE ARTS. A school where classes in the
various arts (including but not limited to dance, gymnastics, painting,
sculpting, singing) are taught to 4 or more persons at a time, but not more
than 20 persons per class.
   EFFICIENCY UNIT. A dwelling unit with 1 primary room which serves as a
living room, kitchen, and bedroom.
   ELECTRONIC AMUSEMENT DEVICE OR GAME. A mechanical or electronic amusement
device or machine which, upon the insertion of a coin, token or slug, operates
or may be operated or used for a game, contest or amusement of any description
and which contains no payoff in money, coins,  checks or merchandise other than
a free game(s) at the same machine. Said item includes pinball machines;
miniature pool tables; bowling machines; shuffle-boards; electric rifle or gun
games; miniature mechanical or electrical games patterned after baseball,
football, basketball, hockey, soccer or similar games; electric work and test
games; and electric video games of sports, words or aptitude used solely for
amusement and not as gambling devices. This term does not include jukeboxes,
food vending machines or children's amusement devices.
   ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE. Any product containing or delivering nicotine,
lobelia, or any other substance, whether natural or synthetic, intended for
human consumption through inhalation of aerosol or vapor from the product.
ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes, but is not limited to, devices
manufactured, marketed, or sold as electronic cigarettes, electronic cigars,
electronic pipes, vape pens, modes, tank systems, or under any other name or
descriptor. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE includes any component part of a
product, whether or not marketed or sold separately. ELECTRONIC DELIVERY DEVICE
excludes “drugs”, “devices”, or “combination products”, as those terms are
defined in the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, that are authorized for
sale by the United States Food and Drug Administration.
   ENERGY DISSIPATION. Methods employed at pipe outlets or along pipe
alignments to prevent erosion including, but not limited to: concrete aprons,
riprap, collars, splashguards, and gabions.
   ENERGY STORAGE FACILITY. Equipment consisting of containers, heat exchanges,
piping and other transfer mechanisms (including fluids, gases or solids),
controls and related structural support for transporting and storing collected
energy (from solar energy systems), including structural elements designed for
use in passive solar energy systems.
   EQUAL DEGREE OF ENCROACHMENT. Method of determining the location of
encroachment lines so that the hydraulic capacity of flood plain lands on each
side of a stream are reduced by an equal amount when calculating the increases
in flood stages due to flood plain encroachments.
   EROSION. The wearing away of the ground surface as a result of the movement
of wind, water and/or ice.
   EROSION CONTROL. Methods employed to prevent erosion. Examples include soil
stabilization practices, horizontal slope grading, temporary or permanent
cover, and construction phasing.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Overhead or underground electric, gas, steam or water
distribution systems and structures or collection, communication, supply or
disposal systems and structures used by public utilities or governmental
departments or commissions or as are required for the protection of the public
health, safety or general welfare, including towers, poles, wires, mains,
drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes
and accessories in connection therewith but not including buildings.
   EVENT CENTER. A public or private facility for gatherings including but are
not limited to recreational events, meetings, performances, parties, weddings,
or other attractions that may cause increased pedestrian and vehicle traffic
needs. The facility owner may or may not charge a fee for the use of the
facility. Facilities may operate entirely within a structure, outside of a
structure, or both inside and outside a structure. The facility must include
plans to accommodate events, including pedestrian access and circulation,
parking areas, and gathering areas.
   EXCAVATION. The mechanical removal of earth material.
   EXTERIOR STORAGE. The storage, including open storage, of goods, materials,
equipment, manufactured products, and similar items not fully enclosed by a
building.
   FALL ZONE. The area, defined as the furthest distance from the tower base,
in which a tower will collapse in the event of a structural failure. The fall
zone radius will be assumed to be equal to the tower height. This distance may
be reduced if the applicant provides a registered engineer's certification that
the wind energy conversion system is designed to collapse, fall, curl, or bend
within a distance shorter than the tower height, or such certification is
provided by the tower manufacturer.
   FAMILY. An individual; 2 or more persons related to each other by blood,
marriage or adoption; or not more than 4 persons not so related who maintain a
common household with cooking and kitchen facilities.
   FARM. See AGRICULTURAL ACTIVITY.
   FARM FENCE. An open type of fence of posts and horizontally run wire,
further defined by M.S. § 344.02, Subd. 1(a-d), and is not considered to be a
structure under this chapter. Fences that have the potential to obstruct flood
flows, such as chain link fences and rigid walls, are regulated as structures
under this chapter.
   FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (FAA). The governmental agency responsible
for regulating airways in the United States.
   FEEDER LINE. Any power line that carries electrical power from 1 or more
wind turbines or individual transformers associated with individual wind
turbines to the point of interconnection with the electric power grid, in the
case of interconnection with the high voltage transmission systems the point of
interconnection shall be the substation serving the wind energy conversion
system.
   FEEDLOT. A place of confined feeding of livestock, poultry or other animals
for food, fur, pleasure or resale purposes, in a yard, lot, pen, building or
other area not normally used for pasture or crops and in which substantial
amounts of manure or related other wastes may originate by reason of such
feeding of animals.
   FENCE. Any partition, structure, wall or gate erected as a divider, marker,
barrier or enclosure and located along the boundary, within the required yard,
or elsewhere on the property. Fence height shall be measured from the normal
grade adjacent to the fence line.
   FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
   FLOOD. A temporary increase in stream flow or stage of a wetland, pond, or
lake that results in inundation normally dry areas.
   FLOOD FREQUENCY. The average frequency, statistically determined, for which
it is expected that a specific flood stage or discharge may be equaled or
exceeded.
   FLOOD FRINGE. That portion of the flood plain outside the floodway. Flood
fringe shall have the same meaning as the term "floodway fringe" as used in the
flood insurance study for the City of Jordan.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP. An official map on which the Federal Insurance
Administrator has delineated both the special hazard areas and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community. A FIRM that has been made available
digitally is called a Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map (DFIRM).
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The study referenced in §
154.503, which is an examination, evaluation and determination of flood
hazards, and if appropriate, corresponding surface elevations, or an
examination, evaluation, and determination of mudslide (i.e. mudflow) and/or
flood-related erosion hazards.
   FLOODPLAIN. The beds and the areas adjoining a wetland, lake or watercourse
which have been or hereafter may be covered by the base flood. The floodplain
includes the floodway and the flood fringe.
   FLOOD PROOFING. A combination of structural provisions, changes, or
adjustments made to properties and structures subject to flooding, primarily
for the reduction or elimination of flood damages to properties, water and
sanitary facilities, structures and contents of buildings in a flood hazard
area in accordance with the Minnesota State Building Code.
   FLOOD PRONE AREA. Any land susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODWAY.  The bed of a wetland or lake and the channel of a watercourse and
those portions of the adjoining floodplain which are reasonably required to
carry or store the base flood discharge.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal area (measured from the exterior
faces of the exterior walls or from the centerline of party walls separating 2
buildings) of each floor of a building. In particular, floor area shall
include:
      (1)   Basement space if at least ½ of the basement story is above the
established curb level or above the average level of the finished grade if a
curb level has not been established;
      (2)   Elevator shafts and stairwells at each floor;
      (3)   Floor space used for mechanical equipment where the structural
headroom exceeds 7½ feet, except equipment, open or enclosed, located on the
roof such as bulkheads, water tanks and cooling towers;
      (4)   Attic floor space where the structural headroom exceeds 7½ feet;
      (5)   Interior balconies and mezzanines;
      (6)   Enclosed porches but not terraces, breezeways and screened porches;
      (7)   Accessory uses other than floor space devoted exclusively to
accessory off-street parking or loading.
   FLOOR AREA RATIO. The numerical value obtained through dividing the gross
floor area of a building by the net area of the lot or parcel of land on which
such building is located.
   FLOOR PLAN. A graphic representation of the anticipated utilization of the
floor area within a building or structure but not necessarily as detailed as
construction plans.
   FOSTER CARE FOR ADULTS. A program operating 24 hours a day that provides
functionally impaired adults with food, lodging, protection, supervision, and
household services in a residence, in addition to services according to the
individual service plans under Minnesota Rules, part 9555.5105, subpart 18.
(M.S § 245.02)
   FRONTAGE. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated public
street.
   FUNERAL HOME. A funeral home is defined as a business which provides a wide
variety of funeral services as defined by M.S. § 149A.02, Subd. 23. A funeral
home may have a maximum of 1 crematory retort under the following conditions:
      (1)   The retort is located within the same structure as the funeral
home;
      (2)   The crematory retort complies with all state and federal statutes,
regulations and requirements;
      (3)   The crematory retort is used only for bodies for which the funeral
home has prepared such body for cremation.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building or accessory portion of the principal
building which is intended for and used to store property of the family, or
families, resident upon the premises as required by this chapter.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any premises used for the storage or care of motor vehicles
or premises where any such vehicles are equipped for operation, are repaired,
or are kept for rental, or for sale. Any sale of gasoline, oil, and accessories
are only incidental to the principal use.
   GRADE (ADJACENT GROUND ELEVATION). The lowest point of elevation of the
finished ground, paving, or sidewalk surface between the building and the
property line or between the building and a line 5 feet from the building when
the property line is more than 5 feet from the building.
   GROUND FLOOR AREA. The lot area covered by a building or buildings measured
from the exterior faces of exterior walls but excluding decks and terraces and
detached garages which do not exceed 12 feet in height.
   GROUND FLOOR-AREA RATIO. The numerical value obtained through dividing the
gross ground floor area of a building by the net area of the lot or parcel of
land on which such building is located.
   GROUP FAMILY DAY CARE. Day care for no more than 14 children at any 1 time.
   HELIPORT. An area either at ground level or elevated on a structure licensed
or approved for the landing and takeoff of helicopters; and including auxiliary
facilities such as parking, waiting facility and maintenance equipment.
   HIGHLY SUSCEPTIBLE WETLAND TYPE. A wetland characterized as a sedge meadow;
open or coniferous bog; calcareous fen; low prairie; coniferous or hardwood
swamp; or seasonally flooded wetland.
   HISTORIC STRUCTURE. Sites listed on or eligible for the National Register of
Historic Places and state or locally-designated properties.
   HOLDING POND. An area designed or accepted by the City Engineer and approved
by the city to retain water to control the flow of stormwater.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any gainful occupation or profession engaged in by the
occupant of a dwelling and carried on within a dwelling unit. A home occupation
does not include the dwelling occupant who works on a hobby at the dwelling and
makes a small amount of money at the hobby.
   HORTICULTURE. The use of land for the growing or production for income of
fruits, vegetables, flowers, nursery stock, including ornamental plants and
trees and cultured sod.
   HOTEL. A building which provides a common entrance, lobby, halls, and
stairway and in which 20 or more people can be, for compensation, lodged with
or without meals.
   HUB. The center of the rotor to which the blades are attached.
   HYDRIC SOILS. Soils that are saturated, flooded or ponded long enough during
the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part.
   HYDROPHYTIC VEGETATION. Macrophytic plant life growing in water, soil or on
a substrate that is at least periodically deficient in oxygen as a result of
excessive water content.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. A structure or paved area that hinders or blocks the
absorption of water into the ground. Examples include, but are not limited to,
rooftops, sidewalks, patios, driveways, parking lots, storage areas, concrete,
asphalt, or gravel roads.
   INFILTRATION AREA. A stormwater retention method for the purpose of reducing
the volume of stormwater runoff by transmitting a flow of water into the ground
through the earth's surface.
   INFRASTRUCTURE. The system of public works for a county, state, or
municipality including, but not limited to, structures, roads, bridges,
culverts, sidewalks; stormwater management facilities, conveyance systems and
pipes; pump stations, sanitary sewers and interceptors, hydraulic structures,
permanent erosion control and stream bank protection measures, water lines, gas
lines, electrical lines and associated facilities, and phone lines and
supporting facilities.
   INTENSIVE VEGETATION CLEARING. The complete removal of trees or shrubs in a
contiguous patch, strip, row or block.
   INTERIM USE. A temporary use of property until a particular date, until the
occurrence of a particular event, or until zoning regulations no longer permits
it.
   INTERMODAL SHIPPING CONTAINER. A standardized reusable steel box used for
the safe, efficient, and secure storage and movement of materials and products
within a global containerized intermodal freight system.
   JUNK YARD. An open area where waste, used or second-hand materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled. Such
materials include, but are not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper,
rags, rubber, tires, bottles, appliances and lumber. Junk yard includes auto
reduction yards but does not include sanitary landfills or uses located
entirely within an enclosed building.
   KENNEL. Any structure or premise on which 3 or more dogs or cats over 6
months of age are kept, housed, boarded, bred, or offered for sale.
   LAND DISTURBING OR DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES. Any change of the land surface
including removing vegetative cover, excavating, filling, grading, stockpiling
soil, and the construction of any structure that may cause or contribute to
erosion, or the movement of sediment into water bodies. The use of land for new
and continuing agricultural activities shall not constitute a land disturbing
activity under this chapter.
   LAND USE PLAN. A compilation of policy statements, goals, standards, and
maps, and action programs for guiding the future development of private and
public property. The term includes a plan designating types of uses for the
entire municipality as well as a specialized plan showing specific areas or
specific types of land uses, such as residential, commercial, industrial,
public or semipublic uses or any combination of such uses. A land use plan may
also include the proposed densities for development.
   LANDLOCKED BASIN. A basin that does not have a natural outlet at or below
the existing flood elevation as determined using the simplified hydrologic
yield method or other acceptable hydrologic analysis method identified in the
Comprehensive Surface Water Management Plan, adopted August of 2006, as
amended.
   LANDSCAPING. Plantings such as trees, grass, ground cover, and shrubs.
   LAUNDROMAT. A facility where patrons wash or dry clothing or other fabrics
in machines operated by the patron and/or a business that provides washing,
drying and ironing for hire by an employee of the facility. Does not include
dry cleaning of clothing or other fabrics onsite.
   LEAST SUSCEPTIBLE WETLAND TYPE. A wetland characterized as a gravel pit,
cultivated hydric soil, dredged material or fill, or material disposal site.
   LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A residential structure typical of those in
the neighborhood housing persons who receive the care and supervision of a
"supervised residential program" or "social rehabilitation program" and adults
who operate the dwelling unit as a home.
   LIVEABLE FLOOR AREA. Finished living space in a dwelling unit, but not
including a cellar or garage.
   LOCAL GOVERNMENT UNIT (LGU). The City of Jordan, Minnesota.
   LOCAL WATER PLAN. The City of Jordan's Comprehensive Surface Water
Management Plan, as amended.
   LODGING ROOM. A room, without cooking facilities, which is rented as
sleeping and living quarters. In a suite of rooms without cooking facilities,
each room which provides sleeping accommodations shall be counted as 1 lodging
room.
   LOT. A portion of a subdivision or other parcel of land intended for
building development or for transfer of ownership.
   LOT AREA. The area of a lot in a horizontal plane bounded by the lot lines.
   LOT AREA PER UNIT. The number obtained by dividing the lot area by the
number of dwelling units on or proposed for the property.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot situated at the junction of and abutting on 2 or more
intersecting streets or a lot at the point of deflection in alignment of a
continuous street, the interior angle of which does not exceed 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. The area of a zoning lot occupied by the principal building or
buildings and accessory buildings.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distances between the front lot line and the
rear lot line of a lot.
   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot which is not a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. The property line bounding a lot, except that where any portion of
a lot extends into the public right-of-way or a proposed public right-of-way,
the lot line of such public right-of-way shall be deemed to be the lot line for
applying setback and yard requirements.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The boundary of a lot which abuts an existing or dedicated
public street. In the case of a corner lot, the front lot line shall be the
shortest dimension on a public street; if the dimensions of a corner lot are
equal, the front line shall be designated by the owner.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The boundary of a lot which is opposite the front lot line.
If the rear line is less than 10 feet in length or if the lot forms a point at
the rear, the rear lot line shall be a line 10 feet in length within the lot
parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any boundary of a lot which is not a front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, whether subdivided or otherwise legally
described, as of the effective date of this chapter, or approved by the city as
a lot subsequent to such date, and which is occupied by or intended for
occupancy by 1 principal use, together with any accessory buildings or the open
spaces as required by this chapter and having its principal frontage on a
street, or a proposed street approved by the Council.
   LOT WIDTH. The maximum horizontal distance between the side lot lines of a
lot measured within the first 30 feet of lot depth.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE/LOT, THROUGH. A lot other than a corner lot which has a
property line abutting on 1 street and an opposite property line abutting on
another nonintersecting street.
   LOW FLOOR ELEVATION. The finished surface elevation of the lowest floor of a
structure.
   LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement). An unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, used solely for parking
of vehicles, building access, or storage in an area other than a basement area,
is not considered a building’s lowest floor; provided, that such enclosure is
not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable non-
elevation design requirements of 44 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 60.3.
   MAJOR WATERSHED. One of the 87 major watershed units delineated by the map
titled State of Minnesota Watershed Boundaries, 1979, produced by the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources as included in the Wetland Conservation Act
Rules 8420.0549.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which
in the traveling mode, is 8 body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more
in length, or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet, and which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or
without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities, and
includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems
contained therein.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. Any site, lot, field or tract of land upon which 2
or more occupied manufactured homes are located, either free of charge or for
compensation, and includes any building, structures, tent, vehicle or enclosure
used or intended for use as part of the equipment of the manufactured home
park.
   MANUFACTURED HOME SITE. An area of ground in a manufactured home park of not
less than 5,000 square feet designated as a location for 1 manufactured home.
   MANUFACTURED HOME STAND. The part of an individual manufactured home lot
which has been reserved for placement of the manufactured home, appurtenant
structures or additions.
   MARQUEE. A permanent roofed structure attached to and supported by the
building and projects over property.
   METEOROLOGICAL TOWER. Those towers which are erected primarily to measure
wind speed and directions plus other data relevant to siting wind energy
conversion system. Meteorological towers do not include towers and equipment
used by airports, the Minnesota Department of Transportation, or other similar
applications to monitor weather conditions.
   MINING. The extraction and removal from a site of sand, gravel, rock, black
dirt, peat, soil or other material. Removal of materials associated with
construction of a building is not considered mining, provided such removal is
approved in the building permit.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings in a controlled-access,
screened, and secured compound that contains individual compartmentalized and
controlled-access storage spaces of varying sizes which are leased or rented
for storage purposes on an individual basis.
   MINNESOTA POLLUTION CONTROL AGENCY (MPCA). The state organization
responsible for the NPDES/SDS permitting system.
   MODERATELY SUSCEPTIBLE WETLAND TYPE. A wetland characterized as shrub-carr,
alder thicket; fresh wet meadow not dominated by reed canary grass; or shallow
or deep marsh not dominated by reed canary grass, cattail, giant reed, or
purple loosestrife.
   MODULAR BUILDING, INDUSTRIALIZED. A building of closed construction made or
assembled in manufacturing facilities off the building site, for installation,
or assembly and installation, on the building site, and is constructed so that
concealed parts or processes of manufacture cannot be inspected at the site,
without disassembly, damage, destruction. This does not include "manufactured
home" or "prefabricated home", which are each defined separately.
   MOTEL. A building or group of detached, semi-detached or attached buildings
that contains guest rooms with garage or parking space conveniently located to
each unit and that is designed, used or intended to be used primarily for the
accommodation of automobile travelers.
   MSL (MEAN SEA LEVEL). Represents the average 19-year height of the surface
of the sea for all stages of the tide.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES)/STATE DISPOSAL
SYSTEM (SDS). This permitting system is managed by the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency (MPCA).
   NATIVE GRASSES and FORBS. Grasses, including prairie grasses, and flowering
broad-leaf plants which are indigenous to the state.
   NATIVE PLANT COMMUNITIES. Groups of native plants which generally occur
together in an area. Examples include wet prairie, dry prairie, oak savannah,
or maple-basswood forest.
   NEIGHBORHOOD. A geographic area defined by boundaries within which residents
conveniently share the common services and facilities in the vicinity of their
dwellings.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures, including additions and improvements, and
placement of manufactured homes, for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this zoning chapter.
   NICOTINE OR LOBELIA DELIVERY PRODUCT.  Any product containing or delivering
nicotine or lobelia intended for human consumption, or any part of such a
product, that is not “tobacco” or an “electronic delivery device” as defined
herein. It does not include any nicotine cessation product that has been
authorized by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to be marketed and for sale
as "drugs", "devices", or "combination products", as those terms are defined in
the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act.
   NOISE. Any activity which creates or produces sound regardless of frequency
exceeding the ambient noise levels at the property line of any property (or if
a condominium or apartment house, within any adjoining apartment) above the
ambient noise levels as designated by the NAC noise table at the time and place
and for the duration then mentioned.
   NON-CONFORMING BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. See STRUCTURE, NON-CONFORMING.
   NON-CONFORMING LOT. A lot or parcel legally existing on the effective date
of this chapter which does not meet the minimum lot width or lot area
requirements of this chapter or on the effective date of a new land use
regulation.
   NON-CONFORMING USE. A use of land, buildings, or structures legally existing
on the effective date of this chapter which does not comply with the
regulations herein governing the zoning district in which such use is located.
Any use which has been allowed as a conditional use shall not be considered
non-conforming.
   NON-POINT SOURCE. Nutrient and pollution sources not discharged from a
single point, e.g. runoff from agricultural fields, feedlots or urban streets.
   NORMAL WATER LEVEL (NWL). For a reservoir with a fixed overflow, the NWL is
the lowest crest level of that overflow. For a reservoir whose outflow is
controlled wholly or partly by movable gates, siphons or other means, it is the
maximum level to which water may rise under normal operating conditions,
exclusive of any provision for flood storage. For a closed depression wetland,
it is the maximum level to which the water may rise under normal precipitation
conditions exclusive of any provision for flood storage.
   NRCS. The Natural Resource Conservation Service.
   NURP. The Nationwide Urban Runoff Program developed by the Environmental
Protection Agency to study storm water runoff from urban development.
   NURSING HOME. A licensed facility or part of a licensed facility which
provides nursing care to 5 or more persons. This does not include a facility or
part of a facility which is a hospital, a hospital with approved swing beds as
defined in M.S. § 144.562, clinic, doctor's office, diagnostic or treatment
center, or a residential program licensed pursuant to M.S. §§ 245A.01 through
245A.16, or M.S. § 252.28 and M.S. § 144A.01 Subd. 5.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any dam, wall, wharf, embankment, levee, dike, pile, abutment,
projection, excavation, channel modification, culvert, building, wire, fence,
stockpile, refuse, fill structure, or matter in, along, across, or projecting
into any channel, watercourse, or regulatory flood plain which may impede,
retard, or change the direction of the flow of water, either in itself or by
catching or collecting debris carried by such water or that is placed where the
flow of water might carry the same downstream to the damage of life or
property.
   OFFICIAL MAP. A map adopted in accordance with M.S. § 462.359, which may
show existing and proposed future streets, roads, highways, and airports of the
municipality, the area needed for widening of existing streets, roads, and
highways of the municipality, and existing and future county state aid highways
and state trunk highway rights-of-way. An official map may also show the
location of existing and future public land and facilities within the
municipality.
   OPEN SALES LOT (EXTERIOR STORAGE). Any land used or occupied for the purpose
of buying, selling, leasing, renting or trading goods, materials or merchandise
where such goods are not enclosed in a building.
   OPEN SPACE. Land preserved apart from development. An open area, including
passive and active recreation, unimproved land, pedestrian plazas, parks,
nature areas, playgrounds and trails, but not including holding ponds.
   OPEN SPACE RECREATIONAL USE. A recreational use particularly oriented to and
utilizing the outdoor character of an area, including hiking and riding trails,
primitive campsites, campgrounds, wayside parks, and recreation areas.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER (OHW) LEVEL. A mark delineating the highest water level
which has been maintained for a sufficient period of time to leave evidence
upon the landscape. The ordinary high water mark is commonly that point where
the natural vegetation changes from predominantly  aquatic to predominantly
terrestrial. In areas where the ordinary high water mark is not evident,
setbacks shall be measured from the stream bank of the following water bodies
that have permanent flow or open water: the main channel, adjoining side
channels, backwaters and sloughs. For reservoirs and flowage, the ordinary high
water level is the operating elevation of the normal summer pool.
   ORNAMENTAL GROUNDCOVER. A groundcover, other than turf grass, ornamental
plantings, or native plantings, which includes mulch, woodchips, and
landscaping rocks.
   ORNAMENTAL PLANTING. Grasses, flowering perennial and annual plants and
groundcovers that may not be indigenous to Minnesota but are adaptable.
Ornamental grasses do not include turf grasses.
   OUTDOOR SALES AND DISPLAY. Land devoted to the display of goods, products or
merchandise for sale, rent, lease or trade where such goods are not enclosed
within a building. This can also include the selling of goods or products
outside.
   OUTDOOR SEATING. A commercial seating area for business patrons which is not
located in an "Indoor Area" as defined by M.S. § 144.413, Subd. 1a.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. The storage, including open storage, of goods, materials,
equipment, manufactured products, and similar items not fully enclosed by a
building, for an indefinite period of time.
   OUTLOT. A tract of land identified by a capital letter and is land that is
not part of a block.
   OWNER. Any person or entity having a legal or equitable interest in real
property and its fixtures and appurtenances, including the interests of a
tenant or lessee.
   PARCEL. A parcel of land designated by plat, metes and bounds, registered
land survey, auditors subdivision, or other accepted means and separated from
other parcels or portions by its designation.
   PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION. The Park and Recreation Commission of the
city, except when otherwise designated. See §
31.23 of the Code of Ordinances.
   PARKING LOT. Five or more parking spaces, along with the driveway connecting
the parking spaces to the street or alley and permitting satisfactory ingress
and egress of an automobile, and the driving lane between or servicing the
parking spaces.
   PARKING SPACE. A suitably surfaced and permanently maintained area on
privately owned property, either within or outside a building, of sufficient
size to store one standard automobile.
   PARKS, PRIVATE. A tract of land presently owned or controlled and used by
private or semi-public persons, entities, groups, and the like, that is
occupied by a natural or landscaped area, buildings, or structures, with the
intent to provide active or passive recreational use or natural resource
protection. Includes, but is not limited to, such uses as parks, plazas,
greens, botanical or ornamental gardens, playfields and game courts,
playgrounds, and monuments. Includes related ancillary facilities such as
picnic table areas, and gazebos.
   PARKS, PUBLIC. A tract of land provided by a unit of government that is
occupied by a natural or landscaped area, buildings, or structures, with the
intent to provide active or passive recreational use or natural resource
protection. Includes, but is not limited to, such uses as parks, plazas,
greens, botanical or ornamental gardens, playfields and game courts,
playgrounds, and monuments. Includes related ancillary facilities such as
picnic table areas, and gazebos.
   PASSIVE RECREATION. Recreational opportunities oriented toward relaxing and
relatively non-physical activities, such as picnicking, fishing, and walking.
   PASSIVE SOLAR SYSTEM. A solar energy system that uses natural and
architectural components to collect and store solar energy without using any
external mechanical power.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A public or private right-of-way across a block or within a
block to provide access to be used by pedestrians and others and which may be
used for the installation of utility lines.
   PERFORMANCE STANDARD. See DESIGN STANDARD.
   PERMITEE. The person or political subdivision in whose name a permit is
issued pursuant to this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, trustee, partnership, unincorporated association,
limited liability company, or corporation.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A general plan drawn to scale for development
of property requested to be zoned PUD and which identifies at least the use of
the property, the intensity of the uses expressed in number and type of
dwelling unit; gross square feet in commercial, industrial or other uses;
general location and size of proposed buildings; public and private streets and
roadways within and adjacent to the property; access points, parking areas and
the number of spaces; open space to be preserved and open space to be created;
general vegetation; legal description; total acreage; graphic scale and north
point.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city, except when
otherwise designated. See §
31.21 of the Code of Ordinances.
   PLAT. The drawing or map of a subdivision prepared for filing of record
pursuant to M.S. Chapter 505 and containing all elements and requirements set
forth in applicable local regulations adopted pursuant to M.S. § 462.358 and
M.S. Chapter 505.
   POLITICAL SUBDIVISION. A county, city, town, school district, or other local
government jurisdiction to which the state provides state aids or on which the
state imposes state mandates or so named by statute.
   PRE-CUT HOME. A non-mobile housing unit in which the lumber components for
the walls, floors and ceilings, roof and structured member are pre-cut at a
central factory and transported to a building site where final construction is
completed, permanently affixing the unit to the site.
   PREFABRICATED HOME. A single-family or multi-family dwelling unit
constructed of walls, floors, ceilings and other building components that have
been separately constructed off of the building site and are then transported
to the building site for assembly and installation.
   PROOF OF PARKING. An area of a lot other than that area secured for yards,
usable open space or landscaping which is allocated for parking but is not
paved or striped.
   PROPERTY. Real property and its fixtures and appurtenances. The phrase
PRIVATE PROPERTY shall include, in addition to the privately owned PROPERTY,
the adjacent land and improvements located in the public right-of-way from the
street curb or edge of the road to the property line and in any public alley
from the centerline of the alley to the property line.
   PROPERTY LINE. The legal boundaries of a parcel of property.
   PROPERTY OWNER. A person, association or corporation having a freehold
estate interest; a leasehold interest extending for, or a renewal option for, a
term in excess of 1 year; a dominant easement interest; or an option to
purchase any of same. This term shall not include owners of interests held for
security purposes only.
   PROTECTED WATERS. Any lake, pond, or flowage greater than 10 acres in size
and Sand Creek per Minn. Rules 6120.2500 - 6120.3900.
   PROTECTIVE COVENANT. A contract entered into between private parties which
constitutes a restriction on the use of a particular parcel of property.
   PUBLIC HEALTH AND GENERAL WELFARE. As defined in M.S. § 103D.011, subd. 23
and 24.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any drainage ditch, roadway, parkway, street, sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, water system, sidewalk, pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off-
street parking area, street lights, lot improvement or other facility for which
the city may ultimately assume ownership, responsibility for maintenance and
operation, or which may affect an improvement, for which local government
responsibility is or may be established.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT PROJECT. A public road or utility project that provides a
common benefit to the community (such as, but not limited to, collector and
arterial roads, and trunk stormwater facilities) and can be included in an
approved capital improvement plan or transportation plan.
   PUBLIC LAND. Land owned or operated by a municipality, school district,
county, state or other governmental unit.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. Open space owned by the city, county, state, school
district or other special district.
   PUBLIC WATERS. Waters of the state as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, subd. 15.
   PUBLIC WATERS WETLANDS. All Type 3, 4, and 5 wetlands, as defined in United
States Fish and Wildlife Service Circular No. 39 (1971 edition), not included
within the definition of public waters, that are 10 or more acres in size in
unincorporated areas or 2.5 or more acres in incorporated areas.
   QUALITY PATIO FURNITURE. Non-folding furniture of sufficient durability to
withstand high volume use that is maintained in good condition to protect
health and public safety of customers and heavy enough to prevent tipping and
breaking under normal conditions.
   REACH. A hydraulic engineering term to describe a longitudinal segment of a
stream influenced by a natural or man-made obstruction. In an urban area, the
segment of a stream or river between 2 consecutive bridge crossings would most
typically constitute a reach.
   RECLAMATION LAND. Any parcel upon which 400 cubic yards or more of fill is
deposited to elevate grade.
   RECREATION EQUIPMENT. Play apparatus such as swing sets and slides,
sandboxes, poles for nets, unoccupied boats and trailers not exceeding 20 feet
in length, picnic tables, lawn chairs, ice fishing houses, utility trailers and
other equipment generally towed behind another vehicle used for non-commercial
purposes, barbecue stands and similar equipment or structures. This definition
shall not include tree houses, swimming pools, and play houses exceeding 25
square feet of floor area or sheds utilized for storage of equipment.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES; LARGE AND SMALL. A vehicle that is built on a single
chassis, is 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal
projection, is designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light
duty truck, and is designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but
as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal
use. For the purposes of this chapter, the term recreational vehicle is
synonymous with the term TRAVEL TRAILER/TRAVEL VEHICLE.
   RECREATION, PUBLIC. All uses that are commonly provided at parks,
playgrounds, community centers and other such sites owned and operated by a
unit of government for the purpose of providing recreation to the public.
   REDEVELOPMENT. The rebuilding, repair or alteration of a structure, land
surface or facility that creates less than 1 acre of new impervious surface,
involves greater than 1 acre of land disturbance, and for which over 50% of the
parcel involved is disturbed by a land disturbing activity. Note: for the
purposes of this chapter if an activity creates more than 1 acre of new or
additional impervious surface the activity is considered new development and
exceptions in this chapter for redevelopment do not apply to the increased
(new) impervious surface.
   REGISTERED LAND SURVEY. A survey map of registered land designed to simplify
a complicated metes and bounds description by designating the same as a tract
or tracts of a registered land survey number.
   REGULATORY FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (RFPE). An elevation not less than 1
foot above the elevation of the base flood elevation plus any increases in
flood elevation caused by encroachments on the floodplain that result from
designation of a floodway.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS. A building, together with its accessory buildings
and uses, which is maintained and controlled by a religious body which is
organized to sustain public worship and where persons regularly assemble for
religious worship.
   REPETITIVE LOSS. Flood related damages sustained by a structure on 2
separate occasions during a 10 year period for which the cost of repairs at the
time of each such flood event on the average equals or exceeds 25% of the
market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   RESTAURANT. A place where food and beverages are prepared, served, and
consumed by the general public for a fee. Restaurants are divided into 3
classes. If a restaurant offers services which cause it to meet the definition
of more than 1 restaurant class, the restaurant shall be classified in the most
restrictive classification, regardless of the amount of the various uses
involved.
      (1)   RESTAURANT CLASS I. A sit down restaurant with on-sale liquor.
      (2)   RESTAURANT CLASS II. A sit down restaurant, including cafeterias,
without on-sale liquor.
      (3)   RESTAURANT CLASS III. A fast food or drive-in restaurant.
   RETAIL SALES OF EDIBLE CANNABINOID PRODUCTS. Any premises dedicated to the
display and sale of any product that is not a drug, and is intended to be eaten
or consumed by humans as a beverage containing a cannabinoid in combination
with food ingredients.
   RETENTION. The prevention of direct discharge of storm water runoff into
receiving water or conveyance networks; examples include systems that discharge
through percolation, exfiltration, infiltration and evaporation processes that
generally have residence times of less than 3 days.
   RETENTION FACILITY. A permanent natural or manmade structure that provides
for the storage of storm water runoff by means of a permanent pool of water.
   REZONING. The process whereby the zoning classification or specific
regulations applicable to a property is/are changed from on district or
applicable set of rules to another.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Land acquired by reservation or dedication intended for public
use, and intended to be occupied or which is occupied by a street, trail,
railroad, utility lines, oil or gas pipeline, water line, sanitary sewer, storm
sewer or other similar uses.
   ROAD. A right-of-way affording pedestrians and vehicles primary access to
abutting properties, whether designed as a street, highway, thoroughfare,
parkway, throughway, road, avenue, boulevard, lane, place or otherwise. Ingress
and egress easements shall not be considered roads.
   ROADWAY. The portion of street right-of-way improved for vehicular travel.
   ROTOR. The wind energy conversion system blades and the hub to which they
are attached.
   ROTOR DIAMETER. The diameter of the circle described by the moving rotor
blades.
   RUNOFF. Rainfall, snowmelt, or irrigation water flowing over the ground
surface.
   SCREENING. The use of plant materials, fences or earthen berms to partially
conceal the separate land use from the surrounding land use.
   SCOTT SWCD. The Scott Soil and Water Conservation District.
   SEDIMENT. The solid mineral or organic material that is in suspension, is
being transported, or has been moved from its original location by erosion and
has been deposited at another location.
   SEDIMENTATION. The process or action of depositing sediment.
   SELECTIVE CUTTING. The removal of single scattered trees.
   SENIOR CITIZEN HOUSING. A housing development specifically designed for and
occupied by elderly persons under a federal, state, or local government program
or that is occupied solely by persons who are 62 or older or houses at least 1
person who is 55 or older in at least 80% of the occupied units, and adheres to
a policy that demonstrates intent to house persons who are 55 or older.
   SETBACK. The minimum distance between a building and the property line
nearest thereto.
   SEWAGE. Any water-carried domestic waste, exclusive of footing drainage and
stormwater runoff, of any residence, industry, agricultural or commercial
establishment, whether treated or untreated, including the liquid wastes
produced by bathing, laundry, or culinary operations, and from toilets and
floor drains.
   SEWAGE, RAW. Sewage which has not been subjected to any treatment process.
   SHADOW/FLICKER. The shadows cast from wind energy conversion system which
generally occurs in close proximity to the wind energy conversion system,
although this will vary depending on the time of year, latitude, and turbine
height. Flicker effects can occur when the sun shines through the rotor blades
at certain times of day and results in the temporary blocking of the sun's rays
with each pass of a rotor blade.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A group of commercial establishments built on a site which
is planned and developed as an operating unit and typically sharing common
space and services such as parking, maintenance and advertising.
   SHORELAND ALTERATION. Grading or filling of shoreland areas or any
alteration of the natural topography where the slope of the land is toward a
public water or a watercourse leading to a public water.
   SHORELAND DISTRICT. City of Jordan Shoreland Ordinance regulates the
shoreland areas within the City of Jordan. Generally Shoreland District
consists of land located within a floodplain, within 1,000 feet of the OHW of a
public water or public waters wetland or within 300 feet of a stream or river.
   SHORE IMPACT ZONE. Land located between the ordinary high water level of a
public body of water and a line parallel to it at a setback of 50% of the
structure setback.
   SHORELAND SETBACK. The minimum horizontal distance between a structure and
the ordinary high water mark.
   SHRUB. A woody perennial plant smaller than a tree with several main
perennial stems arising at or near the ground.
   SITE PLAN. A plan for the development of a tract of land drawn to scale,
including but not limited to identifying the proposed uses; the location and
dimensions of all proposed structures; public and private streets and roadways
on or abutting such tract, parking areas, ground covers; total acreage of the
tract, legal description, number of dwelling units, if any, and number of
bedrooms for each; the gross floor area, the floor area and ground floor area
of all buildings and structures; and the graphic scale to which the plan is
drawn.
   SOLAR ACCESS SPACE. The airspace needed above all lots within the zoning
district to prevent any improvement, vegetation or tree located on said lots
from casting a shadow upon any solar device  located within said zone greater
than the shadow cast between the hours of 9:30 a.m. and 2:30 p.m., central
standard time, on December 21, by a hypothetical vertical wall 10 feet high
located along the property lines of said lots. This chapter shall not apply to
any existing improvement, tree or vegetation which casts a shadow upon a solar
device at the time of installation of said device.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR. A device or combination of devices, structure, or part of a
device or structure that transforms direct solar energy into thermal, chemical
or electrical energy and that contributes significantly to a structure's energy
supply.
   SOLAR ENERGY. Radiant energy (direct, diffuse, and reflected) received from
the sun.
   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. A complete design or assembly consisting of a solar
energy collector, an energy storage facility (where used), and components to
the distribution of transformed energy (to the extent they cannot be used
jointly with a conventional energy system). To qualify as a solar energy
system, the system must be permanently located for no less than 90 days in any
calendar year beginning with the first calendar year after completion of
construction.
   SOLAR SKYSPACE. The space between a solar energy collector and the sun which
must be free of obstructions that shade the collector to an extent which
precludes its cost-effective operation.
   SOLAR SKYSPACE EASEMENT. A right, expressed as an easement, covenant,
condition, or other property interest in any deed or other instrument executed
by or on behalf of any landowner which protects the solar skyspace of an
actual, proposed, or designated solar energy collector at a described location
by forbidding or limiting activities or land uses that interfere with access to
solar energy. The solar skyspace must be described as the three-dimensional
space in which obstruction is prohibited or limited, the times of day during
which direct sunlight to the solar collector may not be obstructed, or a
combination of the 2.
   SOLAR STRUCTURE. A structure designed to utilize solar energy as an
alternative for or supplement to a conventional energy system.
   SLIGHTLY SUSCEPTIBLE WETLAND TYPE. A wetland characterized as a floodplain
forest; fresh wet meadow dominated by reed canary grass; or a shallow or deep
marsh dominated by reed canary grass, cattail, giant reed, or purple
loosestrife.
   SLOPE. The degree of deviation of a surface from the horizontal; usually
expressed in percent or degrees.
   SPA. A unit which is not drained, cleaned, or refilled for each individual.
It may be included, but not limited to hydrojet circulation, hot water, cold
water mineral baths, air induction bubbles or any combination thereof. Industry
terminology for a spa includes, but is not limited to, therapeutic pool,
hydrotherapy pool, whirlpool, hot spa, etc.
   SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA. A term used for flood insurance purposes, and
synonymous with the term base flood or 1% annual chance floodplain.
   STABILIZED. The exposed ground surface that has been covered by staked sod,
erosion control blanket, riprap, mulch, wood fiber blanket or other material
that prevents erosion from occurring. Grass seeding alone is not stabilization.
   STANDARD. A preferred or desired level of quantity, quality, or value.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. Includes substantial improvement, and means the
actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition,
placement or other improvement that occurred before the permit’s expiration
date. The actual start is either the first placement of permanent construction
of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the
installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
state of excavation; or the parchment of a manufactured home on a foundation.
Permanent construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing,
grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers,
foundation, or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the
installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds
not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a
substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first
alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the building.
   STATE LICENSED RESIDENT PROGRAM FACILITY. A program that provides 24 hour
per day care, supervision, food, lodging, rehabilitation, training, education,
habilitation, or treatment outside a person's own home, including a program in
an intermediate care facility for 4 or more persons with developmental
disabilities; and chemical dependency or chemical abuse programs that are
located in a hospital or nursing home and receive public funds for providing
chemical abuse or chemical dependency treatment services under M.S. Chapter
254B. Residential programs include home and community-based services for
persons with developmental disabilities that are provided in or outside of a
person's own home.
      (1)   A single family use mandated by state statutes consisting of a
state licensed residential facility to serve 6 or fewer persons.
      (2)   A multi-family use mandated by state statutes consisting of a state
licensed residential facility to serve from 7 through 16 persons.
   STEEP SLOPE. Land where agricultural activity or development is either not
recommended or described as poorly suited due to slope steepness and the site's
soil characteristics, as mapped and described in available county soil surveys
or other technical reports, unless appropriate design and construction
techniques and farming practices are used in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter. Where specific information is not available, steep slopes are
lands having average slopes over 12%, as measured over horizontal distances of
50 feet or more, that are not bluffs.
   STORMWATER DETENTION POND. Natural or created pond area that provides
temporary storage of excess stormwater for the purpose of attenuating the peak
rate of runoff by controlling the rate of pond discharge. Ponding areas that
drain completely between storm events are dry detention ponds. Ponding areas
that provide temporary storage in combination with a permanent wet pool are wet
detention ponds.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PLAN. A plan for the permanent management and control
of runoff prepared and implemented in accordance with the standards set forth
in §
154.330.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A plan of BMPs or equivalent measures
designed to control runoff and erosion and to retain and control sediment on
site during the period of land disturbing activities in accordance with the
standards set forth by MPCA and §
154.330.
   STORMWATER QUALITY POND. A created ponding area per W. W. Walker (1987)
criteria that provides a permanent pool for the purpose of sediment and
pollutant removal to reduce water quality impacts of urban development.
   STORMWATER RETENTION POND. A natural or created ponding area that provides
permanent storage of excess stormwater for the purpose of attenuating the peak
volume of runoff, from which the only release of flow is by infiltration or
evaporation.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. Water deposited by rain or other precipitation.
   STORY. That portion of a building between the upper surface of any floor and
the upper surface of the floor next above or, in the case of the top-most
story, between the upper surface of the top-most floor and the ceiling or roof
above. If the finished floor level directly above a basement, cellar or unused
under-floor space is more than 6 feet above grade as defined herein for more
than 50% of the total perimeter, or is more than 12 feet above grade at any
point, such basement, cellar or unused above-floor space shall be considered a
story.
   STREET, RIGHT-OF-WAY. A public or private thoroughfare with a minimum right-
of-way width of 60 feet, subject to the City Engineer's discretion, which is
used or intended to be used for passage or travel by motor vehicles. Streets
are further classified by the functions they perform.
      (1)   ALLEY. A thoroughfare through the middle of a block giving access
to the rear of lots or buildings.
      (2)   CUL-DE-SAC. A local street with only 1 outlet and having an
appropriate terminal for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC, TEMPORARY. A temporary turn around whose purpose is to
allow the safe and convenient reversal of traffic, until such time that the
street is extended.
      (4)   EYEBROW. A local street with a partial paved circle, usually for
the purpose of providing additional frontage to lots.
      (5)   FRONTAGE. A public or private street intended for the collection of
traffic that would otherwise directly access minor or major collectors or
arterial roadways whose function is to provide access to streets of higher
classification.
      (6)   LOCAL STREET. A roadway with traffic volumes generally less than
2,500 vehicle trips per day containing 1 lane of traffic in each direction
whose primary function is to provide access to and from property.
      (7)   MAJOR COLLECTOR. A roadway that links residential and commercial
uses with a balance between mobility and access and whose function is to
provide traffic circulation within the city and access to and from minor and
major arterials.
      (8)   MINOR ARTERIAL. An interregional road containing 1 or 2 lanes in
each direction with limited access and controlled intersections at other
arterials and collector streets. Minor arterials convey traffic between towns,
boroughs or other urban centers. Efficient movement is the primary function of
a minor arterial road.
      (9)   LOCAL COLLECTOR. A roadway whose primary function is to provide
access to and from major collectors and local streets.
      (10)   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A path along the side of a roadway.
      (11)   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. A limited access interregional arterial route
containing 2 or more lanes in each direction. They are designated exclusively
for unrestricted movement, have no private access and intersect only with
selected arterial highways or major streets by means of interchanges engineered
for free-flowing movement.
      (12)   PRIVATE STREET. A street serving as vehicular access to 2 or more
parcels of land which is not dedicated to the public and which is owned,
maintained and repaired by 1 or more private parties.
      (13)   TRAIL. A path with a surface used for travel.
   STREETSCAPE. The aesthetic appearance and nature of a street in a
neighborhood created by elements such as architecture, graphics, and
landscaping.
   STREET PAVEMENT. The wearing or exposed asphaltic or cementitious surface
materials and underlying aggregate base materials of the roadway used by
vehicular traffic.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the edges of the traveled
roadway if there is no curb, or between the faces of the curb with a minimum of
24 feet, subject to the City Engineer's discretion.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change, other than incidental repairs, which
would prolong or modify the life of the supporting members of a building, such
as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders or foundations.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, the use of which requires a location on the
ground or attached to something having a location on the ground, including
portable structures, earthen structures, water and storage systems, drainage
facilities and parking lots.
   STRUCTURE, NON-CONFORMING. A structure legally existing on the effective
date of this chapter, or subsequent revisions, which does not comply with the
most current regulations herein governing the zoning district in which such
structure is located.
   STRUCTURE, PRINCIPAL. The main building on a parcel of land.
   SUBDIVISION. A described tract of land which is to be or has been divided
into 2 or more lots or parcels, any of which resultant parcels is less than 10
acres in area, for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development
or, if a new street is involved, any division of a parcel or land. The term
includes resubdivision and, where appropriate to the context, relates either to
the process of subdividing or to the land subdivided.
   SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure where the
cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
exceed 50% of the market value of the structure before the damage occurred.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Within any consecutive 365-day period, any
reconstruction, rehabilitation (including normal maintenance and repair),
repair after damage, addition, or other improvement of a structure, the cost of
which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure before the
“start of construction” of the improvement. This term includes structures that
have incurred “substantial damage,” regardless of the actual repair work
performed. The term does not, however, include either: 1) Any project for
improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or local
health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which have been identified by
the local code enforcement official and which are the minimum necessary to
assure safe living conditions; or 2) Any alteration of a “historic structure,”
as defined in this section, provided that the alteration will not preclude the
structure’s continued designation as a “historic structure.”
   SUBSTATIONS. Any electrical facility designed to convert electricity
produced by wind turbines to a voltage greater than 35,000 KV for
interconnection with high voltage transmission lines shall be located outside
of the road right-of-way.
   SURFACE WATER. All streams, lakes ponds, marshes, wetlands, reservoirs,
spring, rivers, drainage systems, waterways, watercourses, and irrigation
systems whether nature or artificial, public or private.
   SURFACE WATER-ORIENTED COMMERCIAL USE. The use of land for commercial
purposes, where access to and use of a surface water feature is an integral
part of the normal conductance of business. Marinas, resorts, and restaurants
with transient docking facilities are examples of such use.
   SURFACED. A road, driveway, approach or parking lot which consists of
bituminous material, concrete or other similar material.
   SWIMMING POOL, RESIDENTIAL. Any constructed pool, permanent or portable,
which is intended for non-commercial use as a swimming pool by the owner's
family and their guests.
   TEMPORARY OUTDOOR SEASONAL SALES. The temporary sale of agricultural
produce, Christmas trees, flowers, food vendors such as ice cream, hot dogs,
popcorn stands, fireworks and the like, sold and conducted within the
appropriate zoning district in the city.
   TOBACCO or TOBACCO PRODUCT. Any substance, item, or product containing, made
or derived from tobacco that is intended for human consumption whether chewed,
smoked, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed or ingested by any other
means or any component, part, or accessory of a tobacco product, including but
not limited to: cigarettes, cigars, cheroots, stogies, perique, granulated,
plug cut. crimp cut, ready, rubbed and other smoking tobacco; snuff; snuff
flower, cavendish, plug and twist tobacco; fine cut and other chewing tobaccos:
shorts, refuse scripts, clippings, cuttings, and sweepings of tobacco; and
other kinds and forms of tobacco, prepared in such manner as to be suitable for
chewing, sniffing, or smoking in a pipe, rolling paper or other tobacco-related
devices. TOBACCO and TOBACCO PRODUCT excludes “drugs”, “devices”, or
“combination products”, as those terms are defined in the Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act, that are authorized for sale by the United States Food and
Drug Administration.
   TOBACCO SALES. Any premises dedicated to the display, sale, distribution,
delivery, offering, furnishing, or marketing of tobacco, tobacco products, or
tobacco-related devices.
   TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES. Cigarette papers or pipes for smoking or other
devices intentionally designed or intended to be used in a manner which enables
the chewing, sniffing, smoking, or inhalation of aerosol or vapor of tobacco or
tobacco products. The term TOBACCO-RELATED DEVICES includes electronic delivery
devices and components of tobacco-related devices, which may be marketed and
sold separately.
   TOTAL HEIGHT. The highest point, above ground level, reached by a rotor tip
or any other part of the wind energy conversion system.
   TOWER. Towers include vertical structures that support the electrical
generator, rotor blades, or meteorological equipment.
   TOWER HEIGHT. The total height of the wind energy conversion system
exclusive of the rotor blades.
   TOWNHOUSE. See DWELLING UNIT – TOWNHOUSE".
   TOXIC AND HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste materials including, but not limited to,
poisons, pesticides, herbicides, acids, caustics, pathological wastes,
radioactive materials, flammable or explosive  materials and similar harmful
chemicals and wastes which require special handling and must be disposed of in
a manner which conserves the environment and protects the public health and
safety.
   TRANSMISSION LINE. Those electrical power lines that carry voltages of at
least 69,000 volts (69 KV) and are primarily used to carry electric energy over
medium to long distances rather than directly interconnecting and supplying
electric energy to retail customers.
   TRANSPORTATION PLAN. A compilation of policy statements, goals, standards,
maps and action programs for guiding the future development of the various
modes of transportation of the municipality and its environs, such as streets
and highways, mass transit, railroads, air transportation, trucking and water
transportation, and includes a major thoroughfare plan.
   TRANSFER STATION. A solid waste facility at which solid waste collected from
any source is temporarily deposited to await transportation to another solid
waste facility.
   TREE. A large woody perennial plant with normally one main trunk and many
branches.
   TREE, CONIFEROUS. A tree that retains its leaves in the winter. Generally, a
CONIFEROUS TREE’S leaves are needles.
   TREE, DECIDUOUS. A tree that loses its leaves in the winter.
   TREE, ORNAMENTAL. A deciduous tree that is anticipated to be 25 feet or less
in height when mature.
   TREE, OVERSTORY. A deciduous tree that is anticipated to be over 25 feet in
height when mature.
   TURF GRASS. Commercially available cultured grass plant varieties, including
bluegrass, fescue and ryegrass blends, that are commonly used in regularly cut
lawn areas and low-maintenance TURF GRASSES as defined herein.
   UNATTENDED VEGETATION. Overgrown or untrimmed shrubs, brush, or grasses;
diseased, dead, noxious, or poisonous vegetative growth; weeds; and any other
improperly maintained or inappropriate vegetation as proscribed in rules and
regulations.
   USABLE OPEN SPACE. A required ground area or terrace area on a lot which is
graded, developed, landscaped and equipped and intended and maintained for
either active or passive recreation or both, available and accessible to and
usable by all persons occupying a dwelling unit or a room unit on the lot and
their guests. Such area and improvements shall contain improvements such as
outdoor swimming pools, patio area, game area, landscaped and grassy areas
containing benches, sculpture gardens, pedestrian paths and trails or similar
outdoor fixtures or features. The least dimension of the space so provided
shall be 30 feet or greater. Roofs, driveways and parking areas shall not
constitute usable open space.
   USE. The purpose or activity, for which the land or building thereon is
intended, designated or arranged or for which it is occupied, utilized or
maintained.
   USE, NON-CONFORMING. A use of land, buildings, or structures legally
existing on the effective date of this chapter or a new land use regulation,
which does not comply with the regulations herein governing the zoning district
in which such use is located. Any use which has been allowed as conditional use
shall not be considered non-conforming as long as it complies with the
conditions of the conditional use permit.
   USE, PERMITTED. A public or private use which of itself conforms with the
purposes, objectives, requirements, regulations and performance standards of a
particular zoning district in which it is located. A use which is not an
accessory use, a conditional use, or an interim use and which is allowed in a
zoning district.
   USE, PRINCIPAL. The main use of land or buildings as distinguished from
subordinate or accessory use. A principal use may be permitted, conditional, or
interim.
   VACATION. The act of relinquishing a recorded dedication or easement as in a
street right-of-way, utility easement, etc.
   VARIANCE. A modification or variation from the literal provisions of the
chapter where it is determined that their strict enforcement would cause
practical difficulties to a specific piece of property. The Board of Adjustment
and Appeals, as defined in this chapter, may grant such variances. A variance
shall not be granted allowing a use prohibited in the district in which the
structure, use and lot are located.
   VECTOR. Any animal, insect, or other vermin that can transmit disease to
humans or is the potential cause of a public health nuisance.
   WATER BASIN. An enclosed natural depression with definable banks capable of
containing water that may be partly filled with public waters.
   WATER BODY. All surface waters, water basins, watercourse, and wetlands as
defined in this Code.
   WATER-ORIENTED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE OF FACILITY. A small, above ground
building or other improvement, except stairways, fences, docks, and retaining
walls, which, because of the relationship of its use to a surface water
feature, reasonably needs to be located closer to public waters than the normal
structure setback. Examples of such structures and facilities include
boathouses, gazebos, screen houses, fish houses, pump houses, and detached
decks.
   WATERCOURSE. Any natural or improved stream, river, creek, ditch, channel,
culvert, drain, gully, swale, or wash in which waters flow continuously or
intermittently in a definite direction.
   WATERCRAFT. Any contrivance used or designed for navigation on water. See §
73.03 of this Code of Ordinances.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
   WATERSHED. The area drained by the natural and artificial drainage system,
bounded peripherally by a bridge or stretch of high land dividing drainage
areas.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION PLAN. A document that provides for the protection of a
public water supply, submitted to the Minnesota Department of Health, is
implemented by the public water supplier, and complies with: the wellhead
protection elements specified in the 1986 amendments to the Federal Safe
Drinking Water Act, United States Code, Title 42, Chapter 6A, Subchapter XII,
Part C, Section 300h-7 (1986 and as subsequently amended); and Minnesota Rules
parts 4720.5200 to 4720.5290.
   WETLAND. Any wetland as defined in M.S. § 103G.005, Subd. 19.
   WETLAND CONSERVATION ACT (WCA). The Minnesota Wetland Conservation Act of
1991, as amended.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). An electrical generating facility
comprised of 1 or more wind turbines and accessory facilities, including but
not limited to: power lines, transformers, substations and metrological towers,
which operate by converting the kinetic energy of wind into electrical energy.
The energy maybe used on-site or distributed into the electrical grid.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, COMMERCIAL. A wind energy conversion system
greater than 40 kW in total name plate generating capacity and designed or
operated to provide energy principally to consumers located off the premises
and does not meet the requirements established for a non-commercial wind energy
conversion system.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, FREESTANDING. A wind energy conversion system
other than roof-mounted.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, NON-COMMERCIAL. A wind energy conversion
system consisting of a wind turbine and associated control or conversion
electronics used primarily to reduce on-site consumption of utility power. A
non-commercial wind energy conversion system shall not exceed a rated capacity
of 40 kW in total name plate generating capacity.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM, ROOF-MOUNTED. A wind energy conversion system
affixed to the roof of a building or other structure.
   WIND TURBINE. A wind turbine is any piece of electrical generating equipment
that converts the kinetic energy of blowing wind into electrical energy through
the use of airfoils or similar devices to capture the wind.
   YARD. A required open space on a lot which is unoccupied and unobstructed by
a structure from its lowest level to the sky except as permitted by this
chapter. The yard extends along the lot line at right angles to such lot line
to a depth or width specified in the setback regulations for the zoning
district in which such lot is located.
   YARD, FRONT. That portion of the yard extending along the full width of the
front lot line between side lot lines and extending from the abutting street
right-of-way line to the depth required in the setback regulations for the
zoning district in which such lot is located.
   YARD, REAR. That portion of the yard on the same lot with the principal
building located between the rear line of the principal building and the rear
lot line and extending the full width of the lot.
   YARD, SIDE. That portion of the yard extending along the side lot line
between the front yard and the rear yard to the depth or width required by the
setback requirements of the zoning district in which such lot is located.
   ZERO LOT LINE. The reduction to 0 of a side yard setback requirement
permitting the placement of a structure near or adjacent to the side yard lot
line; however, no portion of the structure or accessory appurtenance shall
project over the lot line.
   ZONING. A map-based system for guiding land-use development by dividing a
city into land-use zones. An associated zoning code specifies the types of
acceptable land uses, setbacks, lot sizes, and other restrictions for each
zoning classifications and affects what an individual may legally do to develop
and use parcels therein. It is the method by which jurisdictions control the
manner in which areas develop.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The duly appointed person charged with enforcement of
this chapter.
   ZONING AMENDMENT. A majority vote of all members of the City Council is
required for a zoning amendment except that a change in classification from
residential to commercial or industrial requires a vote of all members.
   ZONING DISTRICT. A mapped area or areas as defined by this chapter within
which the regulations and requirements governing the use of property are
uniform.
   ZONING MAP, OFFICIAL. The map or maps incorporated into this chapter as part
thereof, designating the zoning districts. The official map shall be used by
the Planning Commission, city staff, and City Council in regard to zoning
classifications and districts.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The ordinance or resolution controlling the use of land as
adopted by the city.
(Ord. 2007-009, passed 6-18-2007; Am. Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord.
2013-06, passed 7- 15-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-2-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-
02, passed 2-1-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-07, passed 10-3-2016; Am. Ord. 2016-09,
passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020; Am. Ord. 2020-04, passed
11-16-2020; Am. Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021; Am. Ord. 2021-03, passed 3-1-
2021; Am. Ord. 2021-08, passed 8-2-2021; Am. Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-11-2022;
Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-13-2023; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed 8-28-2023; Am.
Ord. 2023-04, passed 8-28-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-05, passed 9-23-2024; Am. Ord.
2024-09, passed - -)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.031 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Minimum requirement. The provisions of this subchapter shall be held
to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public health, safety,
morals and welfare.
   (B)   Supremacy. When any condition imposed by any provision of this
subchapter is either more restrictive or less restrictive than similar
conditions imposed by any provision of any other applicable law, City Code
provision, statute, resolution or regulation of any kind, the more restrictive
1 which imposes higher standards or requirements shall prevail. This subchapter
is not intended to abrogate any easements, restrictions, or covenants relating
to the use of land or imposed on lands within the community by private
declaration or agreement, but where the provisions of this subchapter are more
restrictive than any such easement, restriction, or covenant, or the provision
of any private agreement, the provisions of this subchapter shall prevail.
   (C)   Conformity to section. Except as specifically provided for herein, no
structure or land shall be used for, nor shall any structure be erected,
converted, enlarged, reconstructed or altered in any manner for any purpose
which is not in conformity with this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.032 EXISTING LOTS.
   (A)   Any lot or parcel of land in a residential district which was of
record on or before the effective date of this subchapter in the Scott County
Recorder's office as a separate lot or parcel may be used for single-family
detached dwelling purposes provided that the area and width of said lot are
larger than 60% of the minimums set by this subchapter; all setback
requirements can be met; and city sewer, city water and all other necessary
public services and utilities can be provided.
   (B)   No lot or parcel of land in a residential district shall be split or
subdivided so as to render the original lot non-conforming subject to the
provisions of this subchapter. No building permit shall be issued on a lot so
conveyed.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.033 EXISTING NON-CONFORMING USES.
   Any non-conforming structure or use existing upon the effective date of this
subchapter may be continued, subject to the following:
   (A)   Any non-conformity including the lawful use or occupation of land or
premises existing at the time of the adoption of an additional control under
this subchapter may be continued, including through repair, replacement,
restoration, maintenance or improvement, but not including expansion, unless:
      (1)   The non-conformity or occupancy is discontinued for a period of
more than 1 year; or
      (2)   Any non-conforming use is destroyed by fire or other peril to the
extent of greater than 50% of its estimated market value, as indicated in the
records of the county assessor at the time of damage, and no building permit
has been applied for within 180 days of when the property is damaged. In this
case, a municipality may impose reasonable conditions upon a zoning or building
permit in order to mitigate any newly-created impact on adjacent property or
water body.
      (3)   When a nonconforming structure in the shoreland district with less
than 50% of the required setback from the water is destroyed by fire or other
peril to greater than 50% of its estimated market value, as indicated in the
records of the county assessor at the time of damage, the structure setback may
be increased if practicable and reasonable conditions are placed upon a zoning
or building permit to mitigate created impacts on the adjacent property or
water body.
   (B)   Any subsequent use or occupancy of the land or premises shall be a
conforming use or occupancy. A municipality may, by ordinance, permit an
expansion or impose upon nonconformities reasonable regulations to prevent and
abate nuisances and to protect the public health, welfare, or safety. This
division does not prohibit a municipality from enforcing an ordinance that
applies to adults-only bookstores, adults-only theaters or similar adults-only
businesses, as defined by ordinance.
   (C)   Any nonconforming structure located in a floodplain district must
adhere to §
154.524.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021; Am. Ord.
2023-05, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 154.034 ZONING COORDINATION.
   Any zoning district classification change to land adjacent to or across a
public right-of-way from an adjoining county or community shall be referred to
that county/community's governing unit for review and comment prior to final
action by the Council. A period of at least 10 days shall be provided for
receipt of comments; such comments shall be considered as advisory only.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.035 ZONING AND THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
   In considering amendments to this subchapter including amendments to the
text and amendments to the zoning district lines, the Council and Planning
Commission shall give due regard to the Comprehensive Plan.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.041 ENFORCING OFFICER.
   The Council shall appoint a Zoning Administrator who shall enforce this
subchapter and shall:
   (A)   Maintain permanent and current records of this subchapter including
but not limited to maps, amendments, variances and conditional uses;
   (B)   Institute in the name of the city any appropriate action or proceeding
against a violator;
   (C)   Serve as an ex-officio non-voting member of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.042 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   See §
31.21 of the City Code.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.043 BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT AND APPEALS.
   See §
31.22 of the City Code.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.044 PARK AND RECREATION COMMISSION.
   See §
31.23 of the City Code.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.045 DESIGN REVIEW COMMITTEE.
   The following uses are permitted accessory uses as such uses are defined and
in accordance with the required lot provisions and design standards. However,
any incidental repair or processing necessary to conduct a permitted principal
use shall not occupy more than 30% of the floor area.
   (A)   Electronic amusement devices (machines), where the principal use is a
Class I or Class II restaurant or a dry goods, drug, variety, hobby, or toy
store. Up to 4 such devices are permitted. However, if the area of the
principal use is at least 15,000 square feet, up to 30 such devices are
permitted.
   (B)   Off-street parking and loading.
   (C)   Retail sales of edible cannabinoid products, where the principal use
is a business that holds one or more of the following licenses: 3.2% malt
liquor on-sale license, 3,2 % malt liquor off-sale license, off-sale
intoxicating liquor license, on-sale intoxicating liquor license, combination
on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor license, on-sale wine license, brewer
taproom on-sale license, or small brewer off-sale license, as defined under §
111.22. Edible cannabinoid products shall not occupy more than 10% of the
publicly accessible floor area.
   (D)   Signs.
   (E)   Solar collectors.
   (F)   Temporary outdoor storage or display of goods used in conjunction with
and on the same site as the permitted use, provided that the goods are not
outdoors overnight; the storage or display area does
not exceed 100 square feet; and the storage or display is not within the
required front yard, or when a side yard abuts a street in the side yard,
setback area.
   (G)   Tobacco sales, where the principal use is a bar, grocery store, and
off-sale liquor. Tobacco sales shall not occupy more than 10% of the floor
area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1933.jpg]
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am .Ord. 2017-04, passed 12-18-2017; Am. Ord.
2023-01, passed 2-13-2023; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 154.046 ZONING AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Criteria for approval. The Council may amend this subchapter and the
zoning map in relation to land uses within a particular district or as to the
location of district lines (rezoning). Amendments shall not be made
indiscriminately but shall only be used as a means to reflect changes in the
goals and policies of the city as reflected in the Comprehensive Plan, policies
plan or changes in conditions in the city.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1935.jpg]
 
   (B)   Procedure. Amendment may be initiated by the Council, the Planning
Commission or upon application of a property owner. Individuals wishing to
initiate an amendment shall complete a zoning amendment application form and
submit it to the city. Any amendment not initiated by the Planning Commission
shall be referred to that Commission for review, and no amendment shall be
acted upon by the Council until it has received the Planning Commission
recommendations or until 60 days have elapsed from the date of reference of the
amendment without a report by the planning agency or otherwise in compliance
with M.S. § 15.99, Subd. 2. The procedure for a property owner to initiate a
zoning amendment is as follows:
      (1)   The property owner or his or her agent shall meet with the Zoning
Administrator to explain the situation, learn the procedures, and obtain an
application form.
      (2)   The applicant shall file the completed application form together
with the required exhibits with the Zoning Administrator and shall pay a filing
fee as established by the City Council.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall set the date for a public hearing
and shall have notices of such hearing published in the official newspaper at
least once, not less than 10 days and not more than 30 days prior to said
hearing. A zoning map amendment shall require notification of all property
owners within 350 feet of the outer boundaries of the property in question
however, failure of any property owner to receive such notification shall not
invalidate the proceedings. The notice shall include a description of the land
and the proposed change. The mailed notice requirement shall be waived for a
city-wide zoning amendment initiated by the Planning Commission or City
Council.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall hold the public hearing and then
shall recommend to the City Council within 30 days, 1 of 3 actions — approval,
denial, or conditional approval.
      (5)   The City Council shall act upon the application within 30 days
after receiving the recommendation of the Planning Commission. The zoning
amendment shall require the affirmative vote of the majority of the members of
the City Council.
      (6)   No application of a property owner shall be considered by the
Planning Commission within the 1 year period following a denial of such
request, except the Planning Commission may permit a new application, if in the
opinion of the Planning Commission, new evidence or a change of circumstances
warrant it.
   (C)   Comprehensive Plan. An amendment to this chapter or the zoning map
shall be construed as an amendment to the Comprehensive Plan and its map.
   (D)   Procedure for PUD zoning. Applications for establishment of the PUD
District shall be made pursuant to §§
154.191 through
154.199.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-04, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 154.047 CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Standards. The Planning Commission shall recommend a conditional use
permit and the Council may issue conditional use permits if it finds that the
use at the proposed location:
      (1)   The use will not create an excessive burden on existing parks,
schools, streets, and other public facilities and utilities which serve or are
proposed to serve the area.
      (2)   The use will be sufficiently compatible or separated by distance or
screening from adjacent agricultural or residentially zoned or used land so
that existing homes will not be depreciated in value and there will be no
deterrence to development of vacant land.
      (3)   The structure and site shall have an appearance that will not have
an adverse effect upon adjacent residential properties.
      (4)   The use in the opinion of the Council is reasonably related to the
overall needs of the city and to the existing land use.
      (5)   The use is consistent with the purposes of this subchapter and the
purposes of the zoning district in which the applicant intends to locate the
proposed use.
      (6)   The use is not in conflict with the Comprehensive Plan or Water
Resource Management Plan.
      (7)   The use will not cause traffic hazard or congestion.
      (8)   Existing businesses nearby will not be adversely affected because
of curtailment of customer trade brought about by intrusion of noise, glare, or
general unsightliness.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1942.jpg]
   (B)   Conditions. In permitting a new conditional use or the alteration of
an existing conditional use, the city may impose, in addition to the
requirements set forth above, conditions considered necessary or appropriate to
protect the best interests of the surrounding area or the community as a whole.
For requests in the floodplain district, see §
154.521.
   (C)   Procedure. The applicant shall complete a conditional use permit
application form and submit it, along with a site plan and filing fee, to the
city who shall refer the application to the Planning Commission for review.
   (D)   Planning Commission hearing and notice. The Planning Commission shall
hold a public hearing on the application. Notice of said hearing shall be
published in the official newspaper of the city at least 10 days prior to the
hearing and the City Clerk shall mail the same notice to the owners of all
property located within 350 feet of the land to which the conditional use will
apply. The notice shall include a description of the land and the proposed
conditional use. Failure of a property owner to receive such notification shall
not invalidate the proceedings.
   (E)   Council action. The report of the Planning Commission shall be placed
on the agenda of the next regular Council meeting following referral from the
Planning Commission, but not later than 45 days after the applicant has
submitted the application. If the Council grants the permit, it may impose
conditions it considers necessary to protect the public health, safety and
welfare.
   (F)   Reapplication. No application for a conditional use permit shall be
resubmitted for period of 6 months from the date of an order of denial unless
the new application and site plan have been modified to eliminate the
objections to the requested basis for denial.
   (G)   Modification to conditional use permit. Any change which involves
structural alteration, enlargement, or intensification of use or any similar
change not specifically permitted by the issued permit shall require an amended
conditional use permit. A request for amendment shall be administered in the
same manner and all procedures shall apply as if a new permit were being
requested.
   (H)   Review. All permits shall be reviewed on an annual basis for
compliance set forth in this subchapter.
   (I)   Violation. In the event the applicant violates any of the conditions
set forth in the permit, the Council shall have the authority to revoke said
permit.
   (J)   Duration. A conditional use permit shall remain in effect as long as
the conditions agreed upon are observed, but nothing in this section prohibits
the city from enacting or amending official controls to change the status of
conditional uses.
   (K)   Recorded. A certified copy of any conditional use permit shall be
recorded against the property upon which the use is located. The permit must
include the legal description of the property.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.048 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Purpose. A variance to the literal provisions of this subchapter may
be issued to provide a modification or variation where it is determined that
their strict enforcement would cause practical difficulties. No use variances
may be issued. No variance will be issued that would allow a lower degree of
flood protection than the flood-protection elevation. For additional
requirements for variance requests in a floodplain district, see §
154.522.
   (B)   Standards. Pursuant to M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 6, as it may be amended
from time to time, the Planning Commission, acting as a Board of Appeals and
Adjustments, may recommend the City Council issue variances from the provisions
of this zoning code. A variance is a modification or variation of the literal
provisions of the subchapter as applied to a specific piece of property.
      (1)   Variances shall only be permitted:
         (a)   When they are in harmony with the general purposes and intent of
the ordinance; and
         (b)   When the variances are consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
      (2)   Variances may be granted when the applicant for the variance
establishes that there are practical difficulties in complying with the zoning
ordinance.
   (C)   Practical difficulties. As used in connection with the granting of a
variance, means that:
      (1)   The property owner proposes to use the property in a reasonable
manner not permitted by the zoning ordinance;
      (2)   The plight of the landowner is due to circumstances unique to the
property not created by the landowner; and
      (3)   The variance, if granted, will not alter the essential character of
the locality.
      (4)   Economic considerations alone do not constitute practical
difficulties. A variance will not be permitted for any use that is not allowed
under the zoning ordinance for property in the zone where the affected person's
land is located. The Board may impose conditions in the granting of variances.
A condition must be directly related to and must bear a rough proportionality
to the impact created by the variance.
   (D)   Procedure.  The applicant shall complete a variance application form
and submit it, along with a site plan, filing fee, and any other necessary
information to the city who shall refer the application to the Board of Appeals
and Adjustment for review.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1937.jpg]
   (E)   Board of Appeals and Adjustment hearing and notice. The Board of
Appeals and Adjustment shall hold a public hearing on the application. Notice
of said hearing shall be published in the official newspaper of the city at
least 10 days prior to the hearing and the City Clerk shall mail the same
notice to the owners of all property located within 350 feet of the land to
which the variance will apply. The notice shall include a description of the
land and the proposed variance. Failure of a property owner to receive such
notification shall not invalidate the proceedings.
      (1)   The Board may recommend to the City Council and the City Council
may grant approval or approval with conditions, or denial of the request. In
considering a request for a variance and whether the applicant established that
there are practical difficulties in complying with provision(s) of this
subchapter, the Board and City Council shall consider the following factors:
      (2)   Special conditions applying to the structures or land in question
that are particular to the property and do not apply generally to other land or
structures in the district or vicinity in which the land is located;
      (3)   The granting of the proposed variance will not be contrary to the
intent of this subchapter;
      (4)   The special conditions or circumstances do not result from the
actions of the owner/applicant;
      (5)   The granting of the variance will not merely serve as a convenience
to the applicant, but is necessary to alleviate practical difficulties in
complying with the zoning provisions of this Code; and
      (6)   The variance requested is the minimum variance necessary to
alleviate the practical difficulty.
   (F)   Council action. The report of the Board of Appeals and Adjustment
shall be placed on the agenda of the next regular Council meeting following
referral from the Board of Appeals and Adjustment, but not later than 45 days
after the applicant has submitted the application. If the Council grants the
permit, it may impose conditions it considers necessary to protect the public
health, safety and welfare. The Council may grant the variance and impose
certain conditions and safeguards therein which are directly related to and
bear a rough proportionality to the impact created by the variance. The
variance, however, may not be granted for a use that is otherwise not allowed
in a particular zoning district, that is inconsistent with the comprehensive
guide plan, or that is not in harmony with the general purpose and intent of
the zoning provisions of this subchapter.
   (G)   Referral back to the Board. The City Council may refer any variance
petition back to the Board of Appeals and Adjustments for further review and
recommendation.
   (H)   Denial. Variances may be denied by the City Council and the denial
shall constitute a finding and determination that the conditions required for
approval did not exist.
   (I)   Lapse of variance. A variance shall become void 1 year after it was
granted unless made use of within the year or a longer period as the Council
may provide.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020; Am. Ord.
2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.049 FILING WITH THE COUNTY.
   A certified copy of every ordinance amending the Zoning Section and a
certified copy of every resolution granting or amending a conditional use
permit or variance shall be filed with the County Recorder or Registrar of
Titles of the county. Failure of the city to file shall not affect the validity
of such ordinances or resolutions.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.050 BUILDING PERMIT.
   For the purposes of enforcing this subchapter, a building permit shall be
required of all persons intending to erect, alter, wreck, or move any building.
   (A)   Procedure. Persons requesting a building permit shall:
      (1)   Complete and sign the building permit application form provided by
the city.
      (2)   Complete and submit 2 copies of the site plan.
      (3)   Complete and submit 2 copies of the plot plan or survey.
      (4)   Complete and submit 2 copies of the building plan.
      (5)   Complete and submit energy calculations.
      (6)   Pay the fees as required and established by the city.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1940.jpg]
   (B)   Issuance. In addition, to all other requirements for issuance of
building permits, no building permit shall be issued unless the proposed
building or development conforms in all respects to this subchapter, and all
required fees are paid.
   (C)   If the proposed development necessitates a zoning amendment, variance,
conditional use permit, or approval by the Review Committee, the application
together with a building permit shall be submitted to the appropriate body for
review and action.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.051 INTERIM USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose and intent of allowing interim uses is:
      (1)   To allow a use for a limited period of time that reasonably
utilizes the property in the manner not permitted in the applicable zoning
district.
      (2)   To allow a use that is presently acceptable, but not permitted
within the zoning district and, with anticipated development, may not be
acceptable in the future.
   (B)   Procedure. The application, public notice and procedure requirements
for interim use permits shall be the same as those for conditional use permits
as provided in §
154.047.
   (C)   Standards. The Planning Commission shall recommend an interim use
permit and the Council shall issue such interim use permits only if it finds
that such use at the proposed location:
      (1)   Meets the standards of a conditional use permit set forth in §
154.047.
      (2)   Conforms to the zoning regulations, performance standards and other
requirements of this subchapter.
      (3)   Will terminate upon a tangible date or event specified in the
resolution approving said interim use permit.
      (4)   Will not impose, by agreement, additional costs on the public if it
is necessary for the public to take the property in the future.
      (5)   Will be subject to, by agreement with the owner, any conditions
that the City Council has deemed appropriate for permission of the use,
including a condition that the owner will provide an appropriate financial
surety to cover the cost of removing the interim use and any interim structures
upon the expiration of the interim use permit.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1944.jpg]
   (D)   Termination. An interim use permit shall terminate upon the occurrence
of any of the following events; whichever first occurs:
      (1)   The date specified in the permit;
      (2)   A violation of the conditions under which the permit was issued; or
      (3)   A change in the city's zoning regulations.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.052 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   No structure or land shall be used except for the following uses as such are
defined and in accordance with the required lot provisions and design and
performance standards.
   (A)   Retail or service businesses supplying commodities or performing a
service, as follows:
      (1)   Apparel or clothing store.
      (2)   Barber or beauty shop, personal care salons and spas.
      (3)   Brewery, micro-distillery, micro-brewery, micro-winery, or tap
room.
      (4)   Business and trade schools.
      (5)   Churches.
      (6)   Day care facilities.
      (7)   Financial institutions.
      (8)   Funeral home.
      (9)   Furniture dealer.
      (10)   Grocery store.
      (11)   Massage therapist, licensed.
      (12)   Medical or dental clinics and hospitals.
      (13)   Motel and hotels.
      (14)   Office or professional building.
      (15)   On-sale liquor establishment.
      (16)   Off-sale liquor establishment.
      (17)   Personal services.
      (18)   Public uses related to recreation (e.g., parks) or utilities.
      (19)   Private club.
      (20)   Restaurants—Class I, II and III.
      (21)   Retail sales of edible cannabinoid products.
      (22)   Retail stores and shopping centers.
      (23)   Theaters.
      (24)   Tobacco sales.
      (25)   Video store.
   (B)   Licensed tattoo establishment.
   (C)   Library.
   (D)   Housing, provided that it is part of a Planned Mixed-Use District
(PMD) PUD on the condition that the housing does not utilize more than 60% of
the ground floor of the structure.
   (E)   Physical recreation and educational facilities, including:
      (1)   Bowling alleys, provided they are not within 20 feet of a
residential district.
      (2)   Dance studios.
      (3)   Fitness centers and gyms.
      (4)   Martial arts.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-2-2013; Am. Ord.
2023-01, passed 2-13-2023; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 154.053 OPT-OUT OF M.S. § 462.3593.
   Pursuant to authority granted by M.S. § 462.3593, subd. 9, the city opts-out
of the requirements of M.S. § 462.3593, which defines and regulates temporary
family health care dwellings.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 8-1-2016)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND DISTRICT PROVISIONS
§ 154.061 ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The zoning districts are designed to assist in carrying out the intent and
purpose of the comprehensive plan which is to protect the public health,
safety, convenience, and general welfare. For the purpose of this subchapter,
the city is divided into the following districts:
      RR Rural Residential District
      R-l Single-Family Residential District
      R-2 Single- and Two-Family Residential District
      R-3 Townhouse and Multiple-Family Residential District
      R-4 Multiple Family Residential District
      R-5 Manufactured Home District
      C-1 Neighborhood Commercial District
      C-2 Central Business District
      C-3 Highway Commercial District
      I-1 Light Industrial District
      I-2 General Industrial District
      CD Conservancy District
      PUD Planned Unit Development District
         PRD Planned Residential District
         PCD Planned Commercial District
         PID Planned Industrial District
         PMD Planned Mixed-Use District
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-4-2015; Am. Ord.
2021-07, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 154.062 ZONING MAP.
   The location and boundaries of the districts within the city are set forth
on the official zoning map (hereinafter "the map") which is hereby incorporated
as part of this subchapter, a copy of which is on file with the city.
   (A)   Boundary lines.
      (1)   District boundary lines as indicated on the map follow lot lines,
right-of-way, or centerlines of streets or alleys, projected streets or alleys,
railroad right-of-way lines, and the city corporate limit lines. If said
boundary lines do not follow any of the above, they are established as drawn on
the map.
      (2)   The boundary for the floodway and flood fringe overlay districts
has been taken from the Jordan Flood Insurance Study prepared by the Federal
Insurance Administration.
      (3)   Where there appears to be a conflict between a mapped boundary and
actual field conditions, the Zoning Board of Adjustment and Appeals shall
review the necessary interpretation based on elevations on the regional 100-
year flood profile.
   (B)   Annexed land. If land is annexed by the city, the Council shall take
appropriate action to designate the zoning district for the parcel(s) annexed
at the time of annexation.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-1)
§ 154.081 PURPOSE.
   This district is established to allow and preserve areas of quiet, low-
density neighborhoods of single-family homes.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.082 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except for the following uses as such are
defined and in accordance with the required lot provisions and design and
performance standards.
   (A)   Single-family detached dwelling.
   (B)   Group family day care serving 14 or less children.
   (C)   State licensed residential facility.
   (D)   Public park or playground and open space.
   (E)   Public, parochial or church school, state-accredited private
elementary school, or state-accredited private junior or senior high school,
provided no building shall be located within 50 feet of any lot line of an
abutting lot in an R-l or R-2 district.
   (F)   Church or convent or home for persons affiliated therewith, provided
that such convent or home shall house no more than 14 persons and that no
building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of an abutting lot in
an RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (G)   Public library, public museum, or public art gallery provided no
building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of an abutting lot in
an RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (H)   Municipal administrative building, fire station or other municipal
service building for a use not customarily considered to be an industrial use
provided no building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of an
abutting lot in an RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (I)   Essential service structure, including but not limited to buildings
such as telephone exchange substations, booster or pressure regulating
stations, wells and pumping stations and elevated tanks.
   (J)   Golf course, country club, tennis club, or public swimming pool, the
principal structure of which shall be 50 feet or more from any abutting lot in
any RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (K)   Railroad through trains, but not switching, storage or other railroad
operations.
   (L)   Day care facility.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.083 CONDITIONAL USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except by conditional use permit for any
of the following uses as such are defined and in accordance with the required
lot provisions, design and performance standards, and conditions set by the
Council.
   (A)   Residential planned unit developments. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The applicant shall clearly demonstrate through the application and
site plan that a superior development would result by clustering;
      (2)   The site plan must take into consideration the presence and
preservation of topographic features, wood and trees, water bodies and streams,
and other physical-ecological conditions;
      (3)   Suitable provisions must be made for permanently retaining and
maintaining the amenities and open space; and
      (4)   No more than 4 dwelling units shall be attached in a single
building.
      (5)   All other requirements of §§
154.191 through
154.199 Planned Unit Developments are met.
   (B)   Cemetery. Subject to the following:
      (1)   All access to the cemetery shall be from a collector street, minor
arterial, or from a frontage road.
      (2)   Where the boundaries of the cemetery abut an RR, R-l, R-2, or R-
3 district, a landscape buffer at least 10 feet in depth and consisting of
coniferous and deciduous trees and plants, shall be planted and maintained
thereafter.
   (C)   Community center. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The site shall not be less than 4 acres.
      (2)   The site shall have at least 250 feet of frontage on a collector
street, minor arterial, or a frontage road.
      (3)   Access to parking shall be provided no closer than 150 feet from an
intersection, nor shall it be closer than 100 feet from an existing or proposed
single-family, two-family, or townhouse unit.
      (4)   Exterior lighting, except for globe lighting, shall be directed
perpendicular to the ground so that no direct rays are visible from off the
property.
      (5)   No outside recreational area shall be located within 150 feet from
any single-family, two- family, or townhouse unit.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.084 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following uses are permitted accessory uses as such uses are defined and
in accordance with the required lot provisions and design and performance
standards.
   (A)   Gardening or other horticultural use where no sale of products is
conducted on the site.
   (B)   Home occupations, subject to §§
154.371 through
154.378.
   (C)   Boarders. The keeping of not more than 2 boarders or roomers by a
resident family.
   (D)   Day nursery or day care or group family day care when the principal
use is a church, synagogue, or public, parochial, or church school or a single-
family dwelling which complies with the minimum requirements of the applicable
Minnesota Department of Human Services regulations.
   (E)   Christmas tree sales when located on at least 1 acre of land.
   (F)   Accessory structures, provided :
      (1)   A detached accessory structure shall not exceed 840 square feet, or
exceed the ground floor area of the principal structure located on the same
lot, whichever is less.
      (2)   Garage door openings shall not exceed 9 feet in height.
      (3)   No accessory structure shall be constructed on any lot prior to the
time of construction of the principal building to which it is an accessory.
      (4)   The sidewall of the accessory structure shall not exceed 10 feet,
measured from the finished grade. The highest point of the entire accessory
structure cannot exceed the height of the primary structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1948.jpg]
      (5)   The roof pitch, measured as steepness of roof, of an accessory
structure may meet, but not exceed the roof pitch of the primary structure.
      (6)   Exterior building materials, roof style, and colors are similar to
the principal structure.
      (7)   The accessory structure shall be constructed on a concrete slab or
footing.
      (8)   The accessory structure shall be located to the side or rear of the
principal structure, and are not permitted within the front yard or within a
corner side yard.
      (9)   One accessory structure is permitted on a lot with an existing
attached garage. One accessory structure is permitted on a lot in addition to a
detached garage with the combination of the 2 structures not exceeding 1,000
square feet. A detached garage shall be considered a detached accessory
structure.
   (G)   Storage buildings, screen houses and recreational buildings.
   (H)   Temporary building located on the premises for construction purposes
for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such construction.
   (I)   Private garage or parking space.
   (J)   Private swimming pool or tennis court.
   (K)   Fences and walls, in accordance with §
154.086(B) and (C).
   (L)   Signs.
   (M)   Decorative landscape features, including but not limited to statues,
rocks, reflecting ponds, benches, arbors, terraces, and patios.
   (N)   Satellite dishes and antennae.
   (O)   Solar collection device.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 154.085 LOT REQUIREMENTS (SEE TABLE A, RESIDENTIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS TABLE).
   (A)   Minimum lot size, yards, and setbacks. Where the average depth of
front yards of buildings adjacent to the lot in question is less or greater
than the required minimum front yard depth, the required front yard setback
shall not be less than the average depth of such existing front yards; however,
the depth of a front yard shall not be less than 25 feet or be required to
exceed 50 feet.
   (B)   Corner lot. If a corner lot has a rear lot line that is common with
the side lot line of a lot to the rear, no building shall occupy that portion
of the rear yard of the corner lot that abuts on such street for a depth equal
to or greater than the front yard for such lot to the rear.
   (C)   Dormer. A single-family house which legally existed or for which a
valid building permit had been granted on or before January 1, 1983 may be
expanded by an addition or dormer provided the addition does not extend beyond
the existing side yard setback line and provided the combined width of the side
yard for said building and adjacent building thereto is not less than 10 feet.
   (D)   One principal building. There shall be no more than 1 principal
building structure on 1 lot except as provided through the submittal and
approval of a planned unit development.
   (E)   Yard. No yard or other open space shall be reduced in area so as to
make such yard or other open space less than the minimum required by this
subchapter; and if the existing yard or other open space as existing is less
than the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced. No required yard or
open space of any structure shall be included as a part of any yard or open
space required for another structure.
   (F)   Encroachment exceptions. The following shall not be encroachments on
yard setback requirements.
      (1)   Bays not exceeding a depth of 2 feet or containing an area of more
than 20 square feet. Awnings, door hoods, chimneys, flues, belt courses,
leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels, ornamental features, cornices, eaves,
gutters and the like, provided they do not extend more than 3 feet into a yard
and provided such encroachment is no closer than 4 feet from all lot lines.
      (2)   Yard lights and the nameplate signs, floodlights or other sources
of light illuminating authorized illuminated signs or illuminating parking
areas, loading areas, or yards for safety and security purposes, provided the
direct source of light is not visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent
residential property.
      (3)   In front yards only, awnings and door hoods extending 5 feet into
the required front yard setback area.
      (4)   In front yards only, vestibules extending 5 feet into the required
front yard setback area if the vestibule (a) is designed, constructed and
attached to the principal structure in accordance with the requirements of the
Building Code; (b) is constructed of material compatible with the principal
structure; and (c) has an area as measured to the outside of the outside walls
which does not exceed 30 square feet.
      (5)   In front yards only, heating, ventilating and air conditioning
equipment, provided that no portion of such equipment shall extend more than 6
feet from the principal structure, no portion shall be more than 36 inches in
height, and such equipment shall be screened from view from a public right-of-
way by evergreen plantings. Canopies no more than 12 feet wide, which shall not
extend more than ½ the distance into the required front or side yard, if there
is a demonstrated need and no other practical alternate solution, provided that
the encroachment is approved by the Fire Chief and Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Terraces, steps, uncovered porches, stoops or similar structures
which do not extend 2 ½ feet from the height of the ground floor level of the
principal building can extend 3 feet into the setback area provided such
encroachment is no closer than 5 feet from any lot line.
      (7)   Flag poles, bird baths, and other ornamental features detached from
the principal building.
      (8)   Recreational and laundry drying equipment, arbors and trellises
provided they are a minimum 10 feet from a lot line.
      (9)   In side or rear yards only, heating, ventilating and air
conditioning equipment in interior side yards, side yards abutting a street and
rear yards, provided that such equipment shall extend no more than 6 feet from
the principal structure and the equipment shall be screened from view with
evergreen plantings.
      (10)   In rear yards only, balconies, breezeways, detached outdoor picnic
shelters and recreational equipment, except as regulated hereinafter.
   (G)   Setbacks (SEE
TABLE A, RESIDENTIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS TABLE).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1950.jpg]
 
( Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-01, p assed 2-1-2016; Am. Ord.
2020-01, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 154.086 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS (SEE TABLE B, RESIDENTIAL DESIGN AND
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS TABLE).
   The design and performance standards are established to encourage a high
standard of development by providing assurance that land uses will be
compatible. The performance standards are designed to prevent and eliminate
those conditions which depreciate property values that cause blight or are
detrimental to the environment. Before any building permit is approved, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the proposed use will conform to
the design and performance standards. The applicant or owner shall supply data
necessary to demonstrate such conformance.
   (A)   Noise. It is unlawful to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued, any noise in excess of the noise levels set forth in Minn. Rules
7030.0040, which includes standards for activities by the noise area
classification (NAC) system, established in part by Minn. Rules 7030.0050,
unless such noise be reasonably necessary to the preservation of life, health,
safety or property. Sounds in excess of these limitations are violations of
this section whether the sound originates in a residential district or any
other district.
   (B)   Fences. Fences are permitted in the yard setback area only under the
following conditions:
      (1)   The fence shall have a clearance of 2 inches from pre existing
grade to bottom of fence and shall not exceed 6 feet in height.
      (2)   The property owner shall sign a fence agreement with the City of
Jordan.
      (3)   The fence shall not restrict or obstruct the flow of water.
      (4)   The fence shall be 20 feet away from the high water level (HWL) or
outside of the drainage and utility easement whichever is closer to the
property line.
      (5)   A fence shall not be located within a drainage and utility easement
that has been identified as an emergency over flow easement (EOF) or access
easement.
      (6)   No fence shall cause a visual obstruction to traffic.
      (7)   Fences are structures and shall require a permit with an approved
property survey by a registered land surveyor.
      (8)   Fences shall meet all International Building Code requirements for
such structures.
      (9)   Fences not exceeding 3½ feet in height may be constructed in any
front yard setback area. No fences are allowed in the front yard setback area
unless the fence is 3½ feet tall or less.
   (C)   Retaining walls are allowed under the following conditions:
      (1)   Retaining walls are located at least 1-foot outside the drainage
and/or utility easement.
      (2)   Retaining walls shall meet all International Building Code
requirements for such structures.
      (3)   No retaining wall shall cause a visual obstruction to traffic.
      (4)   All retaining wall locations shall be reviewed by the City of
Jordan.
   (D)   Traffic visibility. No wall, fence, structure, tree, shrub,
vegetation, or other obstruction shall be permitted in any yard or setback
which poses a danger to traffic by obscuring the view from any street
or roadway. Visibility from any street or roadway shall be unobstructed above
the height of 2 feet to a height of 5 feet within the triangle described as
beginning at the intersection of the projected curb lines of 2 intersecting
streets, thence 30 feet along 1 curb, thence diagonally to a point 30 feet from
the point of beginning of the other curb line, thence to the point of
beginning.
   (E)   Storage prohibited in front yard. There shall be no front yard storage
of trash or trash containers except in the 24-hour period prior to a scheduled
pickup.
   (F)   Communication structures. Satellite dishes, antennae, and similar
devices shall not be allowed in the required front yard nor within 12 feet of
the side lot line or rear lot line.
   (G)   Boulevards, sidewalks and street trees. In projects involving new
construction, the plans and improvements must include construction of a
sidewalk where one is included in the city's sidewalk plan, and boulevard sod
and street trees shall be provided consistent with city requirements.
   (H)   Required parking. Development and modifications to all parcels and
buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.221 through
154.230 Off-Street Parking and Loading Spaces.
   (I)   Signs. Development and modification to all parcels, street uses and
buildings are subject to §§
154.241 through
154.260 Signs.
   (J)   Architecture and materials. Development and modification to all
parcels, structures, and buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.311 through
154.316 Architectural Control and Building Materials.
   (K)   Driveway access points. All properties shall be entitled to at least 1
curb cut or driveway access. A second curb cut or driveway access may be
permitted by the Zoning Administrator in an R-l district if:
      (1)   The second access is at least 20 feet from the edge of the primary
access;
      (2)   The setbacks for the driveway or curb cut access points are met;
      (3)   Impervious surface lot coverage requirements are met;
      (4)   The installation of the second curb cut or driveway access will not
result in 2 access points from the lot onto a collector street, minor arterial
or arterial street;
      (5)   It is determined the second curb cut or driveway access will not
result in conflicts with traffic flow or endanger public safety;
      (6)   Both driveway access points shall lead to a garage;
      (7)   Applicants must submit a site plan showing the extra driveway would
not lead to impervious surface coverage of over 40%; and
      (8)   If required, applicants shall receive a right of way permit for any
secondary access point.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020; Am. Ord.
2021-13, passed 8-2-2021)
MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT (R-2)
§ 154.091 PURPOSE.
   This district is established to allow and preserve an older neighborhood,
most of which is located near downtown in the oldest part of the city which was
platted prior to 1950 into small to modest-size lots.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.092 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except for the following uses as such are
defined and in accordance with the required lot provisions and design and
performance standards.
   (A)   Single-family detached dwelling.
   (B)   Modular housing.
   (C)   Group family day care serving 14 or less children.
   (D)   State licensed residential facility.
   (E)   Public park or playground and open space.
   (F)   Public, parochial or church school, state-accredited private
elementary school, or state-accredited private junior or senior high school,
provided no building shall be located within 50 feet of any lot line of an
abutting lot in an RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (G)   Church or convent or home for persons affiliated therewith, provided
that such convent or home shall house no more than 14 persons and that no
building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of an abutting lot in
an RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (H)   Public library, public museum, or public art gallery provided no
building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of an abutting lot in
an RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (I)   Municipal administrative building, fire station or other municipal
service building for a use not customarily considered to be an industrial use
provided no building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of an
abutting lot in an RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (J)   Essential service structure, including but not limited to buildings
such as telephone exchange substations, booster or pressure regulating
stations, wells and pumping stations and elevated tanks.
   (K)   Golf course, country club, tennis club, or public swimming pool, the
principal structure of which shall be 50 feet or more from any abutting lot in
any RR, R-1, or R-2 district.
   (L)   Railroad through trains, but not switching, storage or other railroad
operations.
   (M)   Day care facility.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.093 CONDITIONAL USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except by conditional use permit for any
of the following uses as such are defined and in accordance with the required
lot provisions, design and performance standards, and conditions set by the
Council.
   (A)   Residential planned unit developments. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The applicant shall clearly demonstrate through the application and
site plan that a superior development would result by clustering;
      (2)   The site plan must take into consideration the presence and
preservation of topographic features, wood and trees, water bodies and streams,
and other physical-ecological conditions;
      (3)   Suitable provisions must be made for permanently retaining and
maintaining the amenities and open space; and
      (4)   No more than 4 dwelling units shall be attached in a single
building.
      (5)   All other requirements of §§
154.191 through
154.199 Planned Unit Developments are met.
   (B)   Two-family dwelling. Subject to the following:
      (1)   Two-family dwellings must provide for 2 off-street parking stalls
with immediate access off-street and 1 garage stall measuring at least 14 feet
in width and 20 feet in depth for each unit.
      (2)   Each unit must have separate entrances.
      (3)   All units must meet the current Building Code and Fire Code.
      (4)   Each unit shall have a minimum of 900 square feet of livable floor
area.
      (5)   Must meet all other requirements of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   Cemetery. Subject to the following:
      (1)   All access to the cemetery shall be from a collector street, minor
arterial, or from a frontage road.
      (2)   Where the boundaries of the cemetery abut an RR, R-l, R-2, or R-
3 district, a landscape buffer at least 10 feet in depth and consisting of
coniferous and deciduous trees and plants, shall be planted and maintained
thereafter.
   (D)   Community center. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The site shall not be less than 4 acres.
      (2)   The site shall have at least 250 feet of frontage on a collector
street, minor arterial, or a frontage road.
      (3)   Access to parking shall be provided no closer than 150 feet from an
intersection, nor shall it be closer than 100 feet from an existing or proposed
single-family, two-family, or townhouse unit.
      (4)   Exterior lighting, except for globe lighting, shall be directed
perpendicular to the ground so that no direct rays are visible from off the
property.
      (5)   No outside recreational area shall be located within 150 feet from
any single-family, two- family, or townhouse unit.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.094 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following uses are permitted accessory uses as such uses are defined and
in accordance with the required lot provisions and design and performance
standards.
   (A)   Gardening or other horticultural use where no sale of products is
conducted on the site.
   (B)   Home occupation, subject to §§
154.371 through
154.378.
   (C)   Boarders. The keeping of not more than 2 boarders or roomers by a
resident family.
   (D)   Day nursery or day care or group family day care when the principal
use is a church, synagogue, or public, parochial, or church school or a single-
family dwelling which complies with the minimum requirements of the applicable
Minnesota Department of Human Services regulations.
   (E)   Christmas tree sales when located on at least 1 acre of land.
   (F)   Accessory structures, provided:
      (1)   A detached accessory structure shall not exceed 840 square feet, or
exceed the ground floor area of the principal structure located on the same
lot, whichever is less.
      (2)   Garage door openings shall not exceed 9 feet in height.
      (3)   No accessory structure shall be constructed on any lot prior to the
time of construction of the principal building to which it is an accessory.
      (4)   The sidewall of the accessory structure shall not exceed 10 feet,
measured from the finished grade. The highest point of the entire accessory
structure cannot exceed the height of the primary structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1952.jpg]
      (5)   The roof pitch, measured as steepness of roof, of an accessory
structure may meet, but not exceed the roof pitch of the primary structure.
      (6)   Exterior building materials, roof style, and colors are similar to
the principal structure.
      (7)   The accessory structure shall be constructed on a concrete slab or
footing.
      (8)   The accessory structure shall be located to the side or rear of the
principal structure, and are not permitted within the front yard or within a
corner side yard.
      (9)   One accessory structure is permitted on a lot with an existing
attached garage. One accessory structure is permitted on a lot in addition to a
detached garage with the combination of the 2 structures not exceeding 1,000
square feet. A detached garage shall be considered a detached accessory
structure.
   (G)   Storage buildings, screen houses and recreational buildings.
   (H)   Temporary building located on the premises for construction purposes
for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such construction.
   (I)   Private garage or parking space.
   (J)   Private swimming pool or tennis court.
   (K)   Fences and walls, in accordance with §
154.096(B) and (C).
   (L)   Signs.
   (M)   Decorative landscape features, including but not limited to statues,
rocks, reflecting ponds, benches, arbors, terraces and patios.
   (N)   Satellite dishes and antennae.
   (O)   Solar collection device.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 154.095 LOT REQUIREMENTS (SEE TABLE A, RESIDENTIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS TABLE).
   (A)   Minimum lot size; yards and setbacks. Where the average depth of front
yards of buildings adjacent to the lot in question is less or greater than the
required minimum front yard depth, the required front yard setback shall not be
less than the average depth of such existing front yards; however, the depth of
a front yard shall not be less than 25 feet or be required to exceed 50 feet.
   (B)   Corner lot. If a corner lot has a rear lot line that is common with
the side lot line or a lot to the rear, no building shall occupy that portion
of the rear yard of the corner lot that abuts on such street for a depth equal
to or greater than the front yard for such lot to the rear.
   (C)   Dormer. A single-family house which legally existed or for which a
valid building permit had been granted on or before January 3, 1983 may be
expanded by an addition or dormer provided the addition does not extend beyond
the existing side yard setback line and provided the combined width of the side
yard for said building and adjacent building thereto is not less than 10 feet.
   (D)   One principal building. There shall be no more than 1 principal
building structure on 1 lot except as provided through the submittal and
approval of a planned unit development.
   (E)   Yard. No yard or other open space shall be reduced in area so as to
make such yard or other open space less than the minimum required by this
section; and if the existing yard or other open space as existing is less than
the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced. No required yard or open
space of any structure shall be included as a part of any yard or open space
required for another structure.
   (F)   Encroachment exceptions. The following shall not be encroachments on
yard setback requirements.
      (1)   Bays not exceeding a depth of 2 feet or containing an area of more
than 20 square feet. Awnings, door hoods, chimneys, flues, belt courses,
leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels, ornamental features, cornices, eaves,
gutters and the like, provided they do not extend more than 3 feet into a yard
and provided such encroachment is no closer than 4 feet from all lot lines.
      (2)   Yard lights and the nameplate signs, floodlights or other sources
of light illuminating authorized illuminated signs or illuminating parking
areas, loading areas, or yards for safety and security purposes, provided the
direct source of light is not visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent
residential property.
      (3)   In front yards only, awnings and door hoods extending 5 feet into
the required front yard setback area.
      (4)   In front yards only, vestibules extending 5 feet into the required
front yard setback area if the vestibule (a) is designed, constructed and
attached to the principal structure in accordance with the requirements of the
Building Code; (b) is constructed of materials compatible with the principal
structure; and (c) has an area as measured to the outside of the outside walls
which does not exceed 30 square feet.
      (5)   In front yards only, heating, ventilating and air conditioning
equipment, provided that no portion of such equipment shall extend more than 6
feet from the principal structure, no portion shall be more than 36 inches in
height, and such equipment shall be screened from view from a public right-of-
way by evergreen plantings. Canopies no more than 12 feet wide, which shall not
extend more than ½ the distance into the required front or side yard, if there
is a demonstrated need and no other practical alternate solution, provided that
the encroachment is approved by the Fire Chief and Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Terraces, steps, uncovered porches, stoops or similar structures
which do not extend more than 2 ½ feet from the height of the ground floor
level of the principal building can extend 3 feet into the setback area
provided such encroachment is no closer than 5 feet from any lot line and is
outside of any easement.
      (7)   Flag poles, bird baths, and other ornamental features detached from
the principal building.
      (8)   Recreational and laundry drying equipment, arbors and trellises
provided they are a minimum 10 feet from a lot line.
      (9)   In side or rear yards only, heating, ventilating, and air
conditioning equipment in interior side yards, side yards abutting a street and
rear yards, provided that such equipment shall extend no more than 6 feet from
the principal structure and the equipment shall be screened from view with
evergreen plantings.
      (10)   In rear yards only, balconies, breezeways, detached outdoor picnic
shelters and recreational equipment, except as regulated hereinafter.
   (G)   Setbacks (SEE
TABLE A, RESIDENTIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS TABLE).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1954.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-01, passed 2-1- 2016; Am. Ord.
2020-01, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 154.096 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS (SEE TABLE B, RESIDENTIAL DESIGN AND
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS TABLE).
   The design and performance standards are established to encourage a high
standard of development by providing assurance that land uses will be
compatible. The performance standards are designed to prevent and eliminate
those conditions which depreciate property values that cause blight or are
detrimental to the environment. Before any building permit is approved, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the proposed use will conform to
the design and performance standards. The applicant or owner shall supply data
necessary to demonstrate such conformance.
   (A)   Noise. It is unlawful to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued, any noise in excess of the noise levels set forth in Minn. Rules
7030.0040, which includes standards for activities by the noise area
classification (NAC) system, established in part by Minn. Rules 7030.0050,
unless such noise be reasonably necessary to the preservation of life, health,
safety or property. Sounds in excess of these limitations are violations of
this section whether the sound originates in a residential district or any
other district.
   (B)   Fences. Fences are permitted in the yard setback area only under the
following conditions:
      (1)   The fence shall have a clearance of 2 inches from pre existing
grade to bottom of fence and shall not exceed 6 feet in height.
      (2)   The property owner shall sign a fence agreement with the City of
Jordan.
      (3)   The fence shall not restrict or obstruct the flow of water.
      (4)   The fence shall be 20 feet away from the high water level (HWL) or
outside of the drainage and utility easement whichever is closer to the
property line.
      (5)   A fence shall not be located within a drainage and utility easement
that has been identified as an emergency over flow easement (EOF) or access
easement.
      (6)   No fence shall cause a visual obstruction to traffic.
      (7)   Fences are structures and shall require a permit with an approved
property survey by a registered land surveyor
      (8)   Fences shall meet all International Building Code requirements for
such structures.
      (9)   Fences not exceeding 3½ feet in height may be constructed in any
front yard setback area. No fences are allowed in the front yard setback area
unless the fence is 3½ feet tall or less.
   (C)   Retaining walls are allowed under the following conditions:
      (1)   Retaining walls are located at least 1-foot outside the drainage
and/or utility easement.
      (2)   Retaining walls shall meet all International Building Code
requirements for such structures.
      (3)   No retaining wall shall cause a visual obstruction to traffic.
      (4)    All retaining wall locations shall be reviewed by the City of
Jordan.
   (D)   Traffic visibility. No wall, fence, structure, tree, shrub, vegetation
or other obstruction shall be permitted in any yard or setback which poses a
danger to traffic by obscuring the view from any street or roadway. Visibility
from any street or roadway shall be unobstructed above the height of 2 feet to
a height of 5 feet within the triangle described as beginning at the
intersection of the projected curb lines of 2 intersecting streets, thence 30
feet along 1 curb, thence diagonally to a point 30 feet from the point of
beginning of the other curb line, thence to the point of beginning.
   (E)   Storage prohibited in front yard. There shall be no front yard storage
of trash or trash containers except in the 24-hour period prior to a scheduled
pickup.
   (F)   Communication structures. Satellite dishes, antennae, and similar
devices shall not be allowed in the required front yard nor within 12 feet of
the side lot line or rear lot line.
   (G)   Boulevards, sidewalks and street trees. In projects involving new
construction, the plans and improvements must include construction of a
sidewalk where 1 is included in the city's sidewalk plan and boulevard sod and
street trees shall be provided consistent with city requirements.
   (H)   Required parking. Development and modifications to all parcels and
buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.221 through
154.230 Off-Street Parking and Loading Spaces.
   (I)   Signs. Development and modification to all parcels, street uses and
buildings are subject to §
154.241 through 154.260 Signs.
   (J)   Architecture and materials. Development and modification to all
parcels, structures and buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.311 through
154.316 Architectural Control and Building Materials.
   (K)   Driveway access points. All properties shall be entitled to at least 1
curb cut or driveway access. A second curb cut or driveway access may be
permitted by the Zoning Administrator in an R-l district if:
      (1)   The second access is at least 20 feet from the edge of the primary
access;
      (2)   The setbacks for the driveway or curb cut access points are met;
      (3)   Impervious surface lot coverage requirements are met;
      (4)   The installation of the second curb cut or driveway access will not
result in 2 access points from the lot onto a collector street, minor arterial
or arterial street;
      (5)   It is determined the second curb cut or driveway access will not
result in conflicts with traffic flow or endanger public safety;
      (6)   Both driveway access points shall lead to a garage;
      (7)   Applicants must submit a site plan showing the extra driveway would
not lead to impervious surface coverage of over 40%; and
      (8)   If required, applicants shall receive a right of way permit for any
secondary access point.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020; Am. Ord.
2021-14, passed 8-2-2021)
TOWNHOUSE AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-3)
§ 154.101 PURPOSE.
   This district is established to allow and preserve areas in the city for
townhouse and medium-density residential development.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.102 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except for the following uses as such are
defined and in accordance with the required lot provisions and design and
performance standards.
   (A)   Single-family detached dwelling.
   (B)   Two-family dwelling.
   (C)   Townhouse.
   (D)   Multiple-family dwellings.
   (E)   Modular housing.
   (F)   Group family day care serving 14 or less children.
   (G)   State licensed residential facility.
   (H)   Non-statutory group home.
   (I)   Rooming house.
   (J)   Public park or playground and open space.
   (K)   Public, parochial or church school, state-accredited private
elementary school, or state-accredited private junior or senior high school,
provided no building shall be located within 50 feet of any lot line of an
abutting lot in an RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (L)   Church or convent, or home for persons affiliated therewith, provided
that such convent or home shall house no more than 14 persons and that no
building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of an abutting lot in
an RR, R-1, or R-2 district.
   (M)   Public library, public museum, or public art gallery provided no
building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of an abutting lot in
an R-l or R-2 district.
   (N)   Municipal administrative building, fire station, or other municipal
service building for a use not customarily considered to be an industrial use,
provided no building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of an
abutting lot in an RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (O)   Essential service structure, including but not limited to buildings
such as telephone exchange substations, booster or pressure regulating
stations, wells and pumping stations, and elevated tanks.
   (P)   Golf course, country club, tennis club, or public swimming pool, the
principal structure of which shall be 50 feet or more from any abutting lot in
any RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (Q)   Railroad through trains, but not switching, storage or other railroad
operations.
   (R)   Day care facility.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.103 CONDITIONAL USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except by conditional use permit for any
of the following uses as such are defined and in accordance with the required
lot provisions, design and performance standards, and conditions set by the
Council.
   (A)   Nursing home. Subject to the following:
      (1)   At least 500 square feet of lot area shall be provided for each
patient or bed provided.
      (2)   At least 50 square feet of outside usable open space shall be
provided for each bed or patient.
      (3)   No structure shall be located within 50 feet of an abutting
residential lot line.
      (4)   Access shall be provided from a collector street, minor arterial,
or frontage road and no access shall be provided closer than 50 feet from an
abutting residential lot line.
   (B)   Hospital. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The site shall contain a minimum of 5 acres.
      (2)   The site shall have a minimum frontage of 300 feet on a collector,
minor arterial, or frontage road.
      (3)   At least 2 access drives shall be provided, neither 1 of which is
closer than 100 feet to an abutting residential lot line.
      (4)   All outdoor lighting except for globe lighting shall be no higher
than 30 feet and shall be directed perpendicular to the ground. No direct rays
from the lighting shall be visible from adjacent residentially used or
residentially zoned property.
      (5)   Site plans submitted must include provisions for emergency access.
   (C)   Commercial-recreational area, but not a golf course. Subject to the
following:
      (1)   The site shall not be less than 4 acres.
      (2)   Access shall be from a collector street, minor arterial or frontage
road and shall not be closer than 150 feet from an intersection.
      (3)   Location of the access point shall take into account nearby uses
and shall be placed so as to cause a minimum of disruption to adjacent uses.
      (4)   All lights, other than globe lighting and lighting for outdoor
recreation, shall be directed perpendicular to the ground so that no direct
rays are visible from off the site.
      (5)   Lights for outdoor recreation shall not be illuminated between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (D)   Community center.  Subject to the following:
      (1)   The site shall not be less than 4 acres.
      (2)   The site shall have at least 250 feet of frontage on a collector
street, minor arterial, or a frontage road.
      (3)   Access to parking shall be provided no closer than 150 feet from an
intersection, nor shall it be closer than 100 feet from an existing or proposed
single-family, two-family, or townhouse unit.
      (4)   No outside recreational area shall be located within 150 feet from
any single-family, two- family, or townhouse unit.
   (E)   Manufactured home parks, provided they meet the requirements outlined
in §
154.121 through
154.129, Manufactured Home District (R-5).
   (F)   Assisted living and/or memory care. Subject to the following:
      (1)   At least 500 square feet of lot area shall be provided for each
patient or bed provided.
      (2)   At least 50 square feet of outside usable open space shall be
provided for each bed or patient.
      (3)   Access shall be provided from a collector street, minor arterial,
or frontage road and no access shall be provided closer than 50 feet from an
abutting residential lot line.
      (4)   Off-street parking improvements shall be provided on site
consistent with the requirements of this section.
      (5)   The facility shall not house more than 2 adult residents per
bedroom.
      (6)   Shall meet the requirements set forth in §
154.047 Conditional Use Permits.
      (7)   Owner or operator shall provide copies of state license(s) at time
of yearly review of CUP.
   (G)   Planned unit developments.
   (H)   Senior citizen housing.
   (I)   Cemetery. Subject to the following:
      (1)   All access to the cemetery shall be from a collector street, minor
arterial, or from a frontage road.
      (2)   Where the boundaries of the cemetery abut an RR, R-l, R-2, or R-
3 district, a landscape buffer at least 10 feet in depth and consisting of
coniferous and deciduous trees and plants, shall be planted and maintained
thereafter.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.104 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following uses are permitted accessory uses as such uses are defined and
in accordance with the required lot provisions and design and performance
standards.
   (A)   Gardening or other horticultural use where no sale of products is
conducted on the site.
   (B)   Home occupation, in accordance with §§
154.371 through
154.378.
   (C)   Boarders. The keeping of not more than 2 boarders or roomers by a
resident family.
   (D)   Day nursery or day care or group family day care when the principal
use is a church, synagogue, or public, parochial, or church school or a single-
family dwelling which complies with the minimum requirements of the applicable
Minnesota Department of Human Services regulations.
   (E)   Christmas tree sales when located on at least 1 acre of land.
   (F)   Accessory structures, provided:
      (1)   A detached accessory structure shall not exceed 840 square feet, or
exceed the ground floor area of the principal structure located on the same
lot, whichever is less.
      (2)   Garage door openings shall not exceed 9 feet in height.
      (3)   No accessory structure shall be constructed on any lot prior to the
time of construction of the principal building to which it is an accessory.
      (4)   The sidewall of the accessory structure shall not exceed 10 feet,
measured from the finished grade. The highest point of the entire accessory
structure cannot exceed the height of the primary structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1956.jpg]
      (5)   The roof pitch, measured as steepness of roof, of an accessory
structure may meet, but not exceed the roof pitch of the primary structure.
      (6)   Exterior building materials, roof style, and colors are similar to
the principal structure.
      (7)   The accessory structure shall be constructed on a concrete slab or
footing.
      (8)   The accessory structure shall be located to the side or rear of the
principal structure, and are not permitted within the front yard or within a
corner side yard.
      (9)   One accessory structure is permitted on a lot with an existing
attached garage. One accessory structure is permitted on a lot in addition to a
detached garage with the combination of the 2 structures not exceeding 1,000
square feet. A detached garage shall be considered a detached accessory
structure.
   (G)   Storage buildings, screen houses, and recreational buildings.
   (H)   Temporary building located on the premises for construction purposes
for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such construction.
   (I)   Private garage or parking space.
   (J)   Private swimming pool or tennis court.
   (K)   Fences and walls, in accordance with §
154.106(B) and (C).
   (L)   Signs.
   (M)   Decorative landscape features, including but not limited to statues,
rocks, reflecting ponds, benches, arbors, terraces and patios.
   (N)   Satellite dishes or antennae.
   (O)   Solar collection device.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-15-2013)
§ 154.105 LOT REQUIREMENTS (SEE TABLE A, RESIDENTIAL LOT REQUIREMENT TABLE).
   (A)   Minimum lot size, yards and setbacks. Where the average depth of front
yards of buildings adjacent to the lot in question is less or greater than the
required minimum front yard depth, the required front yard setback shall not be
less than the average depth of such existing front yards; however, the depth of
a front yard shall not be less than 25 feet or be required to exceed 50 feet.
   (B)   Corner lot. If a corner lot has a rear lot line that is common with
the side lot line or a lot to the rear, no building shall occupy that portion
of the rear yard of the corner lot that abuts on such street for a depth equal
to or greater than the front yard for such lot to the rear.
   (C)   Dormer. A single-family house which legally existed or for which a
valid building permit had been granted on or before January 1, 1983 may be
expanded by an addition or dormer provided the addition does not extend beyond
the existing side yard setback line and provided the combined width of the side
yard for said building and adjacent building thereto is not less than 10 feet.
   (D)   One principal building. There shall be no more than 1 principal
building structure on 1 lot except as provided through the submittal and
approval of a planned unit development.
   (E)   Yard. No yard or other open space shall be reduced in area so as to
make such yard or other open space less than the minimum required by this
subchapter; and if the existing yard or other open space as existing is less
than the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced. No required yard or
open space of any structure shall be included as a part of any yard or open
space required for another structure.
   (F)   Encroachment exceptions. The following shall not be encroachments on
yard setback requirements.
      (1)   Bays not exceeding a depth of 2 feet or containing an area of more
than 20 square feet. Awnings, door hoods, chimneys, flues, belt courses,
leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels, ornamental features, cornices, eaves,
gutters and the like, provided they do not extend more than 3 feet into a yard
and provided such encroachment is no closer than 4 feet from all lot lines.
      (2)   Yard lights and the nameplate signs, floodlights or other sources
of light illuminating authorized illuminated signs or illuminating parking
areas, loading areas, or yards for safety and security purposes, provided the
direct source of light is not visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent
residential property.
      (3)   In front yards only, awnings and door hoods extending 5 feet into
the required front yard setback area.
      (4)   In front yards only, vestibules extending 5 feet into the required
front yard setback area if the vestibule (a) is designed, constructed and
attached to the principal structure in accordance with the requirements of the
Building Code; (b) is constructed of materials compatible with the principal
structure; and (c) has an area as measured to the outside of the outside walls
which does not exceed 30 square feet.
      (5)   In front yards only, heating, ventilating and air conditioning
equipment, provided that no portion of such equipment shall extend more than 6
feet from the principal structure, no portion shall be more than 36 inches in
height, and such equipment shall be screened from view from a public right-of-
way by evergreen plantings. Canopies no more than 12 feet wide, which shall not
extend more than ½ the distance into the required front or side yard, if there
is a demonstrated need and no other practical alternate solution, provided that
the encroachment is approved by the Fire Chief and Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Terraces, steps, uncovered porches, stoops or similar structures
that do not extend above the height of the ground floor of the principal
structure may extend to within 5 feet of any property line.
      (7)   Flag poles, bird baths, and other ornamental features detached from
the principal building.
      (8)   Recreational and laundry drying equipment, arbors, and trellises
provided they are a minimum 10 feet from a lot line.
      (9)   In side or rear yards only, heating, ventilating and air
conditioning equipment in interior side yards, side yards abutting a street and
rear yards, provided that such equipment shall extend no more than 6 feet from
the principal structure and the equipment shall be screened from view with
evergreen plantings.
      (10)   In rear yards only, balconies, breezeways, detached outdoor picnic
shelters and recreational equipment, except as regulated hereinafter.
   (G)   Setbacks (SEE
TABLE A, RESIDENTIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS TABLE).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1958.jpg]
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.106 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS (SEE TABLE B, RESIDENTIAL DESIGN AND
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS TABLE).
   The design and performance standards are established to encourage a high
standard of development by providing assurance that land uses will be
compatible. The performance standards are designed to prevent and eliminate
those conditions which depreciate property values that cause blight or are
detrimental to the environment. Before any building permit is approved, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the proposed use will conform to
the design and performance standards. The applicant or owner shall supply data
necessary to demonstrate such conformance.
   (A)   Noise. It is unlawful to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued, any noise in excess of the noise levels set forth in MN
Administrative Rules 7030.0040, which includes standards for activities by the
noise area classification (NAC) system, established in part by MN Rules
7030.0050, unless such noise be reasonably necessary to the preservation of
life, health, safety or property. Sounds in excess of these limitations are
violations of this section whether the sound originates in a residential
district or any other district.
   (B)   Fences. Fences are permitted in the yard setback area only under the
following conditions:
      (1)   The fence shall have a clearance of 2 inches from pre existing
grade to bottom of fence and shall not exceed 6 feet in height.
      (2)   The property owner shall sign a fence agreement with the City of
Jordan.
      (3)   The fence shall not restrict or obstruct the flow of water.
      (4)   The fence shall be 20 feet away from the high water level (HWL) or
outside of the drainage and utility easement whichever is closer to the
property line.
      (5)   A fence shall not be located within a drainage and utility easement
that has been identified as an emergency over flow easement (EOF) or access
easement.
      (6)   No fence shall cause a visual obstruction to traffic.
      (7)   Fences are structures and shall require a permit with an approved
property survey by a registered land surveyor.
      (8)   Fences shall meet all International Building Code requirements for
such structures.
      (9)   Fences not exceeding 3½ feet in height may be constructed in any
front yard setback area. No fences are allowed in the front yard setback area
unless the fence is 3½ feet tall or less.
   (C)   Retaining walls are allowed under the following conditions:
      (1)   Retaining walls are located at least 1-foot outside the drainage
and/or utility easement.
      (2)   Retaining walls shall meet all International Building Code
requirements for such structures.
      (3)   No retaining wall shall cause a visual obstruction to traffic.
      (4)   All retaining wall locations shall be reviewed by the City of
Jordan.
   (D)   Traffic visibility. No wall, fence, structure, tree, shrub, vegetation
or other obstruction shall be permitted in any yard or setback which poses a
danger to traffic by obscuring the view from any street or roadway. Visibility
from any street or roadway shall be unobstructed above the height of 2 feet to
a height of 5 feet within the triangle described as beginning at the
intersection of the projected curb lines of 2 intersecting streets, thence 30
feet along 1 curb, thence diagonally to a point 30 feet from the point of
beginning of the other curb line, thence to the point of beginning.
   (E)   Required yards and setback areas, except driveways and areas used as a
garage or accessory building, shall be graded to final elevations and sodded or
seeded and landscaped with trees and shrubs. Said grading and landscaping shall
be completed within 180 days after first occupancy of the building. Any fence,
wall or other similar work must be completed within 180 days after construction
commences. All property developed and property for which construction has
commenced or a building permit issued prior to December 31, 1991 shall conform
to this requirement on or before June 30, 1992.
   (F)   Storage prohibited in front yard. There shall be no front yard storage
of trash or trash containers except in the 24-hour period prior to a scheduled
pickup.
   (G)   Communication structures. Satellite dishes, antennae, and similar
devices shall not be allowed in the required front yard nor within 12 feet of
the side lot line or rear lot line.
   (H)   Boulevards, sidewalks and street trees. In projects involving new
construction, the plans and improvements must include construction of a
sidewalk where one is included in the city's sidewalk plan and boulevard sod
and street trees shall be provided consistent with city requirements.
   (I)   Usable open space. Each lot shall contain at least 400 square feet of
usable open space for each dwelling unit contained thereon. Each lot shall
contain 150 square feet of usable open space for each person accommodated in
group living quarters.
   (J)   Concrete curb. All parking lots for more than 8 vehicles shall have at
their perimeters a poured-in-place concrete curb measuring at least 6 inches
above and below grade.
   (K)   Surfacing. All driveways and required parking provided outdoors shall
be improved with concrete, brick pavers or bituminous pavement.
   (L)   Lighting. All outdoor lighting, except globe lighting and lantern type
lighting shall be directed perpendicular to the ground and shall not be higher
than 25 feet above the ground.
   (M)   Dwelling grade. All dwelling units shall be at or above the grade of
all land abutting the structure within a distance of 25 feet from all faces of
the building.
   (N)   Utilities screened. All outdoor utility equipment, transformers and
trash containers shall be screened from view.
   (O)   Grades. Private roads, driveways (other than single-family), parking
lots, and loading docks exposed to the elements shall have grades of not less
than 0.5% nor more than 5% in order to provide adequate drainage and
maneuverability of vehicles. Grades in excess of 5% will be reviewed for their
acceptance based on: the amount by which the grade exceeds 5%, number of
slopes, length of slopes, starting and stopping areas and their grades, angles
and curvatures, traffic volumes, parking turn-over, turning and intersection
factors, roadway width, lineal feet and/or number of spaces with grades over
5%, sight distance and obstructions and alternative routes.
   (P)   Screening of rooftop equipment. All rooftop equipment shall be
designed to minimize undesirable views and forms when viewing rooftops from
higher elevations or abutting property. Screening shall be accomplished through
the use of architectural elements and materials which are consistent with the
building design and architectural control provisions.
   (Q)   Buildings. Buildings shall be designed and oriented so as to take
advantage of the sun and views, to minimize adverse impacts to other buildings
and to not unduly restrict views to open spaces.
   (R)   Bicycle storage. At least 1 secured bicycle storage space per dwelling
unit shall be provided in a storage room in the building.
   (S)   Building separation. When more than 1 principal building is located on
the site, no building shall be nearer to another building than ½ the sum of the
building heights of the 2 buildings. No building shall be nearer than its
building height to the rear or side property line when such line abuts an RR,
R-l, or R-2 district.
   (T)   Roads. Private roadways within the site shall have an improved surface
to 20 feet or more width and shall be so designed as to permit the city fire
trucks to provide protection to each building.
   (U)   Roads not parking area. No portion of the required 20 foot wide road
system may be used in calculating required off-street parking space.
   (V)   Townhouses. A maximum of 10 dwellings may be physically tied together
provided; however, that no building face shall be longer than 120 feet. The
minimum setback for townhouses shall be 20 feet from the back of the curb line
along those roadways which are part of the internal street pattern.
   (W)   Underground utilities. All utilities serving any new construction
shall be placed underground except for single-family housing where overhead
utilities exist.
   (X)   Noise reduction. Residential development adjacent to a freeway or
expressway shall have noise attenuation as appropriate.
   (Y)   Front yard. Where the depth of at least 2 existing front yards for
buildings within 150 feet of the lot in question and within the same block-
front is less or greater than the minimum front yard depth required for the
district, the required front yard shall not be less than the average depth of
such existing front yards; however, the depth of a front yard shall not be less
than 10 feet nor be required to exceed 50 feet.
   (Z)   Yards and parking. No front yard shall be used for storage or display
of merchandise in any district, nor required off-street parking. No side yard
shall be used for off-street parking unless a landscaped strip measuring at
least 6 feet wide is provided along the property line and adjacent to the
entire length of the parking.
   (AA)   Trash - townhouse and apartments. There shall be no storage of trash
or trash containers in the front yard. All trash stored outdoors shall be
stored in trash containers which shall be screened from view by fencing and/or
landscaping and berms and shall not be located within 10 feet of a side or a
rear lot line.
   (BB)   Required parking. Development and modifications to all parcels and
buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.221 through
154.230 Off-Street Parking and Loading Spaces.
   (CC)   Signs. Development and modification to all parcels, street uses and
buildings are subject to §§
154.241 through
154.260 Signs.
   (DD)   Architecture and materials. Development and modification to all
parcels, structures, and buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.311 through
154.316 Architectural Control and Building Materials.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020)
MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT (R-4)
§ 154.111 PURPOSE.
   This district is established to allow and preserve relatively high density
residential areas in the city.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.112 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except for the following uses as such are
defined and in accordance with the required lot provisions and design and
performance standards.
   (A)   Single-family detached dwelling.
   (B)   Two-family dwelling.
   (C)   Townhouse.
   (D)   Multiple-family dwellings.
   (E)   Modular housing.
   (F)   Cluster housing.
   (G)   Senior citizen housing.
   (H)   Nursing home. Subject to the following:
      (1)   At least 500 square feet of lot area shall be provided for each
patient or bed provided.
      (2)   At least 50 square feet of outside usable open space shall be
provided for each bed or patient.
      (3)   No structure shall be located within 50 feet of an abutting
residential lot line.
      (4)   Access shall be provided from a collector street, minor arterial,
or frontage road and no access shall be provided closer than 50 feet from an
abutting residential lot line
   (I)   Group family day care serving 14 or less children.
   (J)   State licensed residential facility.
   (K)   Non-statutory group home.
   (L)   Rooming house.
   (M)   Public park or playground and open space.
   (N)   Public, parochial or church school, state-accredited private
elementary school, or state-accredited private junior or senior high school,
provided no building shall be located within 50 feet of any lot line of an
abutting lot in an RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (O)   Church or convent or home for persons affiliated therewith, provided
that no building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of an abutting
lot in an RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (P)   Public library, public museum or public art gallery provided no
building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of an abutting lot in
an RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (Q)   Municipal administrative building, fire station or other municipal
service building for a use not customarily considered to be an industrial use
provided no building shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of an
abutting lot in an RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (R)   Essential service structure, including but not limited to buildings
such as telephone exchange substations, booster or pressure regulating
stations, wells and pumping stations and elevated tanks, provided no building
or structure shall be located within 30 feet of any lot line of an abutting lot
in an RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (S)   Golf course, country club, tennis club, or public swimming pool, the
principal structure of which shall be 50 feet or more from any abutting lot in
any RR, R-l, or R-2 district.
   (T)   Railroad through trains, but not switching, storage, or other railroad
operations.
   (U)   Colleges, universities and private schools or academic institutions
provided no building or parking lot is located within 300 feet of any lot in
the RR, R-l, R-2, or R-3 district.
   (V)   Outpatient medical or mental health services, licensed by the State of
Minnesota provided hours of operation are limited to 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. and
off-street parking is provided in accordance with §§
154.221 through
154.230 Off-Street Parking and Loading Spaces.
   (W)   Day care facility.
   (X)   Assisted living and/or memory care. Subject to the following:
      (1)   At least 500 square feet of lot area shall be provided for each
patient or bed provided.
      (2)   At least 50 square feet of outside usable open space shall be
provided for each bed or patient.
      (3)   Access shall be provided from a collector street, minor arterial,
or frontage road and no access shall be provided closer than 50 feet from an
abutting residential lot line.
      (4)   Off-street parking improvements shall be provided on site
consistent with the requirements of §§
154.221 through
154.230 Off-Street Parking and Loading Spaces.
      (5)   The facility shall not house more than 2 adult residents per
bedroom.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.113 CONDITIONAL USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except by conditional use permit for any
of the following uses as such are defined and in accordance with the required
lot provisions, design and performance standards, and conditions set by the
Council.
   (A)   Hospital. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The site shall contain a minimum of 5 acres.
      (2)   The site shall have a minimum frontage of 300 feet on a collector,
minor arterial, or frontage road.
      (3)   At least 2 access drives shall be provided, neither 1 of which
shall be closer than 100 feet to any other property located in an abutting
residential lot line.
      (4)   Site plans submitted must include provisions for emergency access.
   (B)   Commercial-recreational area, but not a golf course. Subject to the
following:
      (1)   The site shall not be less than 4 acres.
      (2)   Access shall be from a collector street, minor arterial or frontage
road and shall not be closer than 150 feet from an intersection.
      (3)   Location of the access point shall take into account nearby uses
and shall be placed so as to cause a minimum of disruption to adjacent uses.
      (4)   Lights for outdoor recreation shall not be illuminated between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   Funeral home. Subject to the following:
      (1)   A plan shall be submitted identifying the access points and traffic
circulation on the property. Said plan must provide for a minimal interference
to the circulation pattern on abutting streets and to adjoining uses of
property.
      (2)   Where the use abuts land in the RR, R-l, R-2, or R-3 districts, a
landscape buffer strip having a minimum width of 10 feet and consisting of
coniferous and deciduous trees and shrubs shall be provided along said lot
lines.
   (D)   Planned unit developments.
   (E)   Cemetery. Subject to the following:
      (1)   All access to the cemetery shall be from a collector street, minor
arterial, or from a frontage road.
      (2)   Where the boundaries of the cemetery abut an RR, R-l, R-2, or R-
3 district, a landscape buffer at least 10 feet in depth and consisting of
coniferous and deciduous trees and plants, shall be planted and maintained
thereafter.
   (F)   Community center. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The site shall not be less than 4 acres.
      (2)   The site shall have at least 250 feet of frontage on a collector
street, minor arterial, or a frontage road.
      (3)   Access to parking shall be provided no closer than 150 feet from an
intersection, nor shall it be closer than 100 feet from an existing or proposed
single-family, two-family, or townhouse unit.
      (4)   Exterior lighting, except for globe lighting, shall be directed
perpendicular to the ground so that no direct rays are visible from off the
property.
      (5)   No outside recreational area shall be located within 150 feet from
any single-family, two- family, or townhouse unit.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.114 ACCESSORY USES AND STRUCTURES.
   The following uses are permitted accessory uses as such uses are defined and
in accordance with the required lot provisions and design and performance
standards.
   (A)   Gardening or other horticultural use where no sale of products is
conducted on the site.
   (B)   Home occupation, subject to the provisions of §§
154.371 through
154.378.
   (C)   Boarders. The keeping of not more than 2 boarders or roomers by a
resident family.
   (D)   Bed and breakfasts and residential short term rental units.
   (E)   Day nursery or day care or group family day care when the principal
use is a church, synagogue, or public, parochial, or church school or a single-
family dwelling which complies with the minimum requirements of the applicable
Minnesota Department of Human Services regulations.
   (F)   Christmas tree sales when located on at least 1 acre of land.
   (G)   Manufactured home parks provided they meet the requirements outlined
in §§
154.121 through
154.129 Manufactured Home District (R-5).
   (H)   Accessory structures, provided:
      (1)   A detached accessory structure shall not exceed 840 square feet, or
exceed the ground floor area of the principal structure located on the same
lot, whichever is less.
      (2)   Garage door openings shall not exceed 9 feet in height.
      (3)   No accessory structure shall be constructed on any lot prior to the
time of construction of the principal building to which it is an accessory.
      (4)   The sidewall of the accessory structure shall not exceed 10 feet,
measured from the finished grade. The highest point of the entire accessory
structure cannot exceed the height of the primary structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1960.jpg]
      (5)   The roof pitch, measured as steepness of roof, of an accessory
structure may meet, but not exceed the roof pitch of the primary structure.
      (6)   Exterior building materials, roof style, and colors are similar to
the principal structure.
      (7)   The accessory structure shall be constructed on a concrete slab or
footing.
      (8)   The accessory structure shall be located to the side or rear of the
principal structure, and are not permitted within the front yard or within a
corner side yard.
      (9)   One accessory structure is permitted on a lot with an existing
attached garage. One accessory structure is permitted on a lot in addition to a
detached garage with the combination of the 2 structures not exceeding 1,000
square feet. A detached garage shall be considered a detached accessory
structure.
   (I)   Storage buildings, screen houses and recreational buildings.
   (J)   Temporary building located on the premises for construction purposes
for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such construction.
   (K)   Private garage or parking space.
   (L)   Private swimming pool or tennis court.
   (M)   Fences and walls, in accordance with §
154.116(K) and (L).
   (N)   Signs.
   (O)   Decorative landscape features, including but not limited to statues,
rocks, reflecting ponds, benches, arbors, terraces and patios.
   (P)   Satellite dishes or antennae.
   (Q)   Solar collection device.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-06, passed 7-15-2013; Am. Ord.
2016-09, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 154.115 LOT REQUIREMENTS (SEE TABLE A, RESIDENTIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS TABLE).
   (A)   Minimum lot size, yards and setbacks. Where the average depth of front
yards of buildings adjacent to the lot in question is less or greater than the
required minimum front yard depth, the required front yard setback shall not be
less than the average depth of such existing front yards; however, the depth of
a front yard shall not be less than 25 feet or be required to exceed 50 feet.
   (B)   Corner lot.  If a corner lot has a rear lot line that is common with
the side lot line or a lot to the rear, no building shall occupy that portion
of the rear yard of the corner lot that abuts on such street for a depth equal
to or greater than the front yard for such lot to the rear.
   (C)   One principal building. There shall be no more than 1 principal
building structure on 1 lot except as provided through the submittal and
approval of a planned unit development.
   (D)   Yard. No yard or other open space shall be reduced in area so as to
make such yard or other open space less than the minimum required by this
section; and if the existing yard or other open space as existing is less than
the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced. No required yard or open
space of any structure shall be included as a part of any yard or open space
required for another structure.
   (E)   Encroachment exceptions. The following shall not be encroachments on
yard setback requirements.
      (1)   Bays not exceeding a depth of 2 feet or containing an area of more
than 20 square feet. Awnings, door hoods, chimneys, flues, belt courses,
leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels, ornamental features, cornices, eaves,
gutters and the like, provided they do not extend more than 3 feet into a yard
and provided such encroachment is no closer than 4 feet from all lot lines.
      (2)   Yard lights and the nameplate signs, floodlights or other sources
of light illuminating authorized signs or illuminating parking areas, loading
areas, or yards for safety and security purposes, provided the direct source of
light is not visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent residential
property.
      (3)   In front yards only, awnings and door hoods extending 5 feet into
the required front yard setback area.
      (4)   In front yards only, vestibules extending 5 feet into the required
front yard setback area if the vestibule (a) is designed, constructed and
attached to the principal structure in accordance with the requirements of the
building code; (b) is constructed of materials compatible with the principal
structure; and (c) has an area as measured to the outside of the outside walls
which does not exceed 30 square feet.
      (5)   In front yards only, heating, ventilating and air conditioning
equipment, provided that no portion of such equipment shall extend more than 6
feet from the principal structure, no portion shall be more than 36 inches in
height, and such equipment shall be screened from view from a public right-of-
way by evergreen plantings. Canopies no more than 12 feet wide, which shall not
extend more than ½ the distance into the required front or side yard, if there
is a demonstrated need and no other practical alternate solution, provided that
the encroachment is approved by the Fire Chief and Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Terraces, steps, uncovered porches, stoops or similar structures
that do not extend above the height of the ground floor of the principal
structure may extend to within 5 feet of any property line.
      (7)   Flag poles, bird baths, and other ornamental features detached from
the principal building.
      (8)   Recreational and laundry drying equipment, arbors and trellises
provided they are a minimum 10 feet from a lot line.
      (9)   In side or rear yards only, heating, ventilating and air
conditioning equipment in interior side yards, side yards abutting a street and
rear yards, provided that such equipment shall extend no more than 6 feet from
the principal structure and the equipment shall be screened from view with
evergreen plantings.
      (10)   In rear yards only, balconies, breezeways, detached outdoor picnic
shelters and recreational equipment, except as regulated hereinafter.
   (F)   Setbacks (SEE
TABLE A, RESIDENTIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS TABLE).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1962.jpg]
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 154.116 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS (SEE TABLE B, RESIDENTIAL DESIGN AND
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS TABLE).
   The design and performance standards are established to encourage a high
standard of development by providing assurance that land uses will be
compatible. The performance standards are designed to prevent and eliminate
those conditions which depreciate property values that cause blight or are
detrimental to the environment. Before any building permit is approved, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the proposed use will conform to
the design and performance standards. The applicant or owner shall supply data
necessary to demonstrate such conformance.
   (A)   Noise. It is unlawful to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued, any noise in excess of the noise levels set forth in Minnesota Rules
7030.0040, which includes standards for activities by the noise area
classification (NAC) system, established in part by Minnesota Rules 7030.0050,
unless such noise be reasonably necessary to the preservation of life, health,
safety or property. Sounds in excess of these limitations are violations of
this section whether the sound originates in a residential district or any
other district.
   (B)   Above grade. All dwelling units shall be at or above the grade of all
land abutting the structure and located within a distance of 25 feet from all
faces of the building.
   (C)   Usable open space. Each lot shall contain at least 400 square feet of
usable open space for each dwelling unit contained thereon. Each lot shall
contain 150 square feet of usable open space for each person accommodated in
group living quarters.
   (D)   Pedestrian ways. Shall be provided between the parking lot and other
outdoor spaces where appropriate.
   (E)   Outdoor lighting. All outdoor lighting which is not globe lighting
shall be directed perpendicular to the ground or directly on a building so that
no direct rays are visible from off the property.
   (F)   Transformers. If located outside shall be screened.
   (G)   Grades. Private roads, driveways (other than single-family), parking
lots, and loading docks exposed to the elements shall have grades of not less
than 0.5% nor more than 5% in order to provide adequate drainage and
maneuverability of vehicles. Grades in excess of 5% will be reviewed for their
acceptance based on: the amount by which the grade exceeds 5%, number of
slopes, length of slopes, starting and stopping areas and their grades, angles
and curvatures, traffic volumes, parking turn-over, turning and intersection
factors, roadway width, lineal feet and/or number of spaces with grades over
5%, sight distance and obstructions and alternative routes.
   (H)   Bicycle storage. Shall be provided in the building in a storage room
of at least a ratio of 1 space per dwelling unit.
   (I)   Principal building. No principal building shall be located within 15
feet of a private road or drive.
   (J)   Utilities. Shall be placed underground and meters shall be screened
from view from the street.
   (K)   Fences. Fences are permitted in the yard setback area only under the
following conditions:
      (1)   The fence shall have a clearance of 2 inches from pre existing
grade to bottom of fence and shall not exceed 6 feet in height.
      (2)   The property owner shall sign a fence agreement with the City of
Jordan.
      (3)   The fence shall not restrict or obstruct the flow of water.
      (4)   The fence shall be 20 feet away from the high water level (HWL) or
outside of the drainage and utility easement whichever is closer to the
property line.
      (5)   A fence shall not be located within a drainage and utility easement
that has been identified as an emergency over flow easement (EOF) or access
easement.
      (6)   No fence shall cause a visual obstruction to traffic.
      (7)   Fences are structures and shall require a permit with an approved
property survey by a registered land surveyor.
      (8)   Fences shall meet all International Building Code requirements for
such structures.
      (9)   Fences not exceeding 3½ feet in height may be constructed in any
front yard setback area. No fences are allowed in the front yard setback area
unless the fence is 3½ feet tall or less.
   (L)   Retaining walls are allowed under the following conditions:
      (1)   Retaining walls are located at least 1-foot outside the drainage
and/or utility easement.
      (2)   Retaining walls shall meet all International Building Code
requirements for such structures.
      (3)   No retaining wall shall cause a visual obstruction to traffic.
      (4)   All retaining wall locations shall be reviewed by the City of
Jordan.
   (M)   Traffic visibility. No wall, fence, structure, tree, shrub, vegetation
or other obstruction shall be permitted in any yard or setback which poses a
danger to traffic by obscuring the view from any street or roadway. Visibility
from any street or roadway shall be unobstructed above the height of 2 feet to
a height of 5 feet within the triangle described as beginning at the
intersection of the projected curb lines of 2 intersecting streets, thence 30
feet along 1 curb, thence diagonally to a point 30 feet from the point of
beginning of the other curb line, thence to the point of beginning.
   (N)   Storage prohibited in front yard. There shall be no front yard storage
of trash or trash containers. Single-family, duplex and townhouse may place
trash containers in the front yard in the 24-hour period prior to a scheduled
pickup.
   (O)   Communication structures. Satellite dishes, antennae, and similar
devices shall not be allowed in the required front yard nor within 15 feet of
the side lot line or rear lot line.
   (P)   Boulevards, sidewalks and street trees. In projects involving new
construction, the plans and improvements must include construction of a
sidewalk where one is included in the city's sidewalk plan and boulevard sod
and street trees shall be provided consistent with city requirements.
   (Q)   Required parking. Development and modifications to all parcels and
buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.221 through
154.230 Off-Street Parking and Loading Spaces.
   (R)   Signs. Development and modification to all parcels, street uses and
buildings are subject to §§
154.241 through
154.260 Signs.
   (S)   Architecture and materials. Development and modification to all
parcels, structures and buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.311 through
154.316 Architectural Control and Building Material.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020)
MANUFACTURED HOME DISTRICT (R-5)
§ 154.121 PURPOSE.
   This district is established to allow manufactured home parks in a specified
area of the city. All manufactured homes shall be located only in a
manufactured home park. Manufactured home parks shall provide ingress and
egress roadways, open space for playgrounds, recreation and park purposes and
necessary sewer, water, electricity, and refuse services. Manufactured home
parks shall provide a storm shelter or evacuation plan in accordance with
Minnesota Statutes. All manufactured home parks shall conform to the provisions
set forth in the City Code relating to manufactured home parks.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 154.122 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except for 1 or more of the following
uses and as such uses are defined and in accordance with the design and
performance standards.
   (A)   Manufactured home.
   (B)   Grocery store. Grocery store supplying prepackaged commodities
primarily for the resident of a manufactured home park containing 150 units or
more. Provided, however, that the structure, or any portion thereof to be used
for the grocery store shall contain a retail sales area not to exceed 400
square feet plus 1 additional foot for each unit in the complex and that it
shall not be closer than 1,000 feet to the nearest C-1, C-2, or C-3 district
that contains a grocery store.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.123 CONDITIONAL USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except by conditional use permit for any
of the following uses as such are defined and in accordance with the required
lot provisions, design and performance standards, and conditions set by the
Council.
   (A)   Cemetery. Subject to the following:
      (1)   All access to the cemetery shall be from a collector street, minor
arterial, or from a frontage road.
      (2)   Where the boundaries of the cemetery abut an RR, R-l, R-2, or R-
3 district, a landscape buffer at least 10 feet in depth and consisting of
coniferous and deciduous trees and plants, shall be planted and maintained
thereafter.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.124 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are permitted accessory uses as such uses are defined and
in accordance with the required lot provisions and design standards.
   (A)   Private garage or parking space.
   (B)   Off-street parking lot.
   (C)   Storm shelter.
   (D)   Public park or playground and open space.
   (E)   Fences in accordance with §
154.126(EE).
   (F)   Decorative landscape features, including but not limited to statues,
rocks, reflecting ponds, benches, arbors, terraces and patios.
   (G)   Home occupation subject to the provisions of §§
154.371 through
154.378.
   (H)   Signs.
   (I)   Day nursery or day care or group family day care.
   (J)   Storage buildings, screen houses, and recreational buildings.
   (K)   Satellite dishes and antennae.
   (L)   Solar collection device.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.125 LOT REQUIREMENTS (SEE TABLE A, RESIDENTIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS TABLE).
   (A)   Within manufactured home parks platted or developed after January 1,
2014, manufactured homes shall be placed upon manufactured home lots so that
there shall be at least a 20 foot clearance between manufactured homes and 25
feet between the front of the manufactured home and the front lot line and 20
feet between the rear of the manufactured home and the rear lot line.
   (B)   All structures shall require a building permit.
   (C)   All manufactured homes installed in a manufactured home park shall be
placed upon stands approved by the city and properly anchored to the ground.
The anchoring system shall be installed in conformance with applicable sections
of the State Building Code.
   (D)   Each manufactured home unit shall be skirted at its base with a
durable material that complements and is comparable to the exterior design of
the unit.
   (E)   All yards shall be landscaped except for necessary driveway and
sidewalk needs which shall not exceed ½ the width of the site.
   (F)   Each manufactured home lot shall have off-street parking space for at
least 2 automobiles, as required in §§
154.221 through
154.230 Off-Street Parking and Loading.
   (G)   Each site shall be numbered.
   (H)   Fire extinguishing systems shall comply with the Uniform Fire Code.
   (I)   Each manufactured home lot shall be so designed that automobiles may
not be parked within 5 feet of the front of the manufactured home. Parking of
vehicles on the side or rear portions of an individual lot(s) is prohibited.
   (J)   All manufactured homes moved into the park shall have a construction
seal of code and construction compliance and installation seal as issued by the
State of Minnesota as required under the State Building Code. No manufactured
home may be used or occupied until the city building official has issued a
certificate of occupancy as provided in the City Building Code.
   (K)   All manufactured homes located in manufactured home parks shall be
provided with a landing and steps complying with the building code from each
doorway leading from a manufactured home.
   (L)   All buildings or portions thereof which are determined to be
substandard as defined by the Building Inspector are declared to be public
nuisances and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or removal
in accordance with the procedure specified by the Building Inspector.
   (M)   Manufactured homes may be subject to additional requirements contained
in the city code, including, but not limited to the sections governing parking,
home occupations, flood plain/shoreland, signs, etc.
   (N)   Setbacks (SEE
TABLE A, RESIDENTIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS TABLE).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1964.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 12-2-2013; Am. Ord.
2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.126 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS (SEE TABLE B, RESIDENTIAL DESIGN AND
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS TABLE).
   The design and performance standards are established to encourage a high
standard of development by providing assurance that land uses will be
compatible. The performance standards are designed to prevent and eliminate
those conditions which depreciate property values that cause blight or are
detrimental to the environment. Before any building permit is approved, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the proposed use will conform to
the design and performance standards. The applicant or owner shall supply data
necessary to demonstrate such conformance.
   (A)   All structures and land shall meet the requirements set forth in the
City Code and amendments thereto relating to manufactured home parks.
   (B)   Noise. It is unlawful to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued, any noise in excess of the noise levels set forth in Minnesota Rules
7030.0040, which includes standards for activities by the noise area
classification (NAC) system, established in part by Minnesota Rules 7030.0050,
unless such noise be reasonably necessary to the preservation of life, health,
safety or property. Sounds in excess of these limitations are violations of
this section whether the sound originates in a residential district or any
other district.
   (C)   Required parking. Development and modifications to all parcels and
buildings are subject to the provisions on off-street parking and loading
spaces.
   (D)   Signs. Development and modification to all parcels, street uses and
buildings are subject to §§
154.241 through
154.260 Signs.
   (E)   Architecture and materials. Development and modification to all
parcels, structures and buildings are subject to the provision on architectural
control and building materials.
   (F)   Total land area required. Minimum total park area shall be 5 acres and
not less than 250 feet in width.
   (G)   Distinctive design elements and/or themes common throughout the
manufactured home park are strongly encouraged.
   (H)   All manufactured homes shall be properly connected to the municipal
water supply and the municipal sanitary sewer system. All water and sewer
systems shall be constructed in accordance with plans and specifications
approved by the Planning Commission and City Council.
   (I)   The City shall determine/approve ingress and egress (including the
number of ingress/egress points) to manufactured home parks. Access from a
roadway supervised by another political subdivision shall be approved in
writing by the applicable political subdivision. Said ingress and egress to
manufactured home parks shall be designed to minimize congestion and hazards
and allow free movement of traffic on adjacent streets. Distinctive design
elements/themes are strongly encouraged for manufactured park entrances.
   (J)   Internal streets. Roadways shall be of adequate width to accommodate
anticipated traffic, and in any case shall meet the following minimum
requirements:
      (1)   All internal streets shall be a minimum of 24 feet in width from
face-of-curb to face-of-curb with no parking signs posted by the manufactured
park owner.
      (2)   All streets shall be provided with a paved concrete or bituminous
surface. Pavement edges shall be protected to prevent raveling of the wearing
surface and shifting of the pavement base as required by the city.
      (3)   Street surfaces shall be maintained, free of cracks, holes and
other hazards.
      (4)   Maximum speed limits within the park shall not exceed 10 miles per
hour.
      (5)   No parking shall be allowed on internal streets.
      (6)   Dead-end streets shall be prohibited, except cul-de-sacs.
      (7)   All streets should be posted with no parking signs.
   (K)   Open space required. A minimum of 500 square feet per manufactured
home lot shall be provided for definable play areas with playground facilities/
features and open space within the manufactured home park. Such areas of open
space and/or play area shall not be areas included within any setback nor shall
they include any areas of less than 20 feet in length or width. Open space
areas are subject to approval by the city. The city may reduce the play area
square footage requirement by a maximum of 30% of the total square feet
required, if the park owner/developer installs trail facilities within the
manufactured home park.
   (L)   Off-street overload parking required. Each manufactured home park
shall maintain off-street overload parking lot for guests of occupants in the
amount of 1 space for each 3 sites. Overload parking lots shall be located
within 300 feet of the unit(s) to be served and in compliance with the parking
lots standards contained in §§
154.221 through
154.230.
   (M)   Patio required. Each manufactured home lot shall have a 4-inch thick
concrete patio with a minimum total square footage of 150 feet shall be
required. All sides of the patio shall exceed 9 feet in length.
   (N)   Pedestrian access required. All parks shall be provided with safe
convenient all-season pedestrian access of adequate width for intended use,
durable and convenient to maintain, between individual manufactured homes, the
park streets and all community facilities provided for park residents. A common
walk system shall be provided and maintained between locations where pedestrian
traffic is concentrated. Such common walks shall have a minimum width of 4½
feet and shall be located on at least 1 side of the street. All manufactured
homes shall be connected to common walks, to paved streets, or to paved
driveways or parking spaces connecting to a paved street. Such individual walks
shall have a minimum width of 2 feet. Common walkways shall connect to
municipal trails where feasible.
   (O)   Tree planting required. A minimum of 1 tree per lot shall be required.
In open area and park area, a minimum of 20 trees per acre is required. Tree
varieties shall be native to the Jordan area. Trees shall be bound and
burlapped with a minimum trunk diameter of 2 inches. Tree varieties and sizes
proposed are subject to approval by the city.
   (P)   Storm shelter plan required.  All manufactured home parks shall
provide a storm shelter or a plan of evacuation and sheltering for all
residents of the park in times of severe weather conditions such as tornadoes,
high winds and floods in accordance with Minnesota Statutes. The plan shall be
developed with the input and approval of the city and shall be posted at
conspicuous locations throughout the park. The shelter must be available to all
residents of the park at any time of the day or night.
   (Q)   The corners of each manufactured home lot shall be clearly marked.
   (R)   All utilities, such as sewer, water, fuel, electric, telephone and
television antenna lead-ins, shall be buried to a depth specified by the City
Engineer, and there shall be no overhead wires or support poles except those
essential for street or other lighting purposes.
   (S)   Screening required. All manufactured home parks shall be screened
along all manufactured home park property boundary lines separating the park
from adjacent properties and/or right-of-ways. Landscaping requirements must
comply with §§
154.321 through
154.325 General Landscaping Requirements.
   (T)   A properly landscaped area shall be adequately maintained around all
public areas, adjacent to all roadways and on each manufactured home lot.
   (U)   Every structure in the manufactured home park shall be developed and
maintained in a safe, approved and substantial manner. The exterior of every
such structure shall be kept in good repair. All of said structures must be
constructed to meet existing City Code and state and federal law.
   (V)   Portable fire extinguishers rated for electrical and liquid fires
shall be kept in all service buildings and other locations conveniently and
readily accessible for use by all occupants.
   (W)   All structures shall require a building permit.
   (X)   It shall be the duty of the operator of the manufactured home park to
keep a record of all homeowners and occupants located within the park. The park
operator shall keep the record available for inspection at all times by
authorized city officials and other public officials whose duty necessitates
acquisition of the information contained in the record.
   (Y)   The operator of any manufactured home park or a duly authorized
attendant and/or caretaker shall be responsible at all times for keeping the
park, its facilities and equipment in a clean, orderly, operable and sanitary
condition. An authorized attendant or caretaker shall remain within 25 miles of
the manufactured home park at all times and shall be answerable, along with
said operator, for the violation of any provisions of these regulations to
which said operator is subject.
   (Z)   All land area shall be adequately drained, landscaped to control dust,
clean and at all times free from refuse, garbage, rubbish or debris.
   (AA)   The storage, collection and disposal of refuse in the manufactured
home park, storage areas, grounds, buildings and structures shall be so
conducted as to avoid accumulations of debris and in a manner free of health
hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding, accident or fire hazards or air
pollution.
   (BB)   The growth of brush, weeds and grass shall be controlled at all
times.
   (CC)   All provisions of this section relative to accessory structures and
outdoor storage shall be adhered to at all times.
   (DD)   Manufactured home parks may be subject to additional requirements
contained in this section including, but not limited to the sections governing
parking, home occupations, flood plain/shoreland, signs, etc.
   (EE)   Fences. Fences are permitted under the following conditions:
      (1)   The fence shall have a clearance of 2 inches from pre-existing
grade to bottom of fence and shall not exceed 6 feet in height.
      (2)   The property owner shall sign a fence agreement with the City of
Jordan.
      (3)   The fence shall not restrict or obstruct the flow of water.
      (4)   The fence shall be 20 feet away from the high water level (HWL) or
outside of the drainage and utility easement whichever is closer to the
property line.
      (5)   A fence shall not be located within a drainage and utility easement
that has been identified as an emergency over flow easement (EOF) or access
easement.
      (6)   No fence shall cause a visual obstruction to traffic.
      (7)   Fences are structures and shall require a permit with an approved
property survey by a registered land surveyor.
      (8)   Fences shall meet all International Building Code requirements for
such structures.
      (9)   Fences not exceeding 3½ feet in height may be constructed in any
front yard setback area. No fences are allowed in the front yard setback area
unless the fence is 3½ feet tall or less.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 12-2-2013; Am. Ord.
2020-01, passed 2-3-2020)
§ 154.127 EXCEPTION.
   Manufactured home parks constructed prior to (date of previous ordinance
adoption), that when constructed, complied with density, lot-size and
manufactured home setback requirements, shall be excluded from density, lot-
size and setback requirements contained herein. However, expansions of
manufactured home parks shall be subject to and comply with all requirements of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.128 APPLICATION.
   No person shall attempt to develop or operate a manufactured home park
within the city without obtaining primary and subsequent renewal license(s)
from the Minnesota Department of Health and a conditional use permit from the
City of Jordan. The requirements of a permit shall prevail over all other
standards and requirements notwithstanding the more restrictive subdivisions of
this chapter. A permit for a manufactured home park may contain other
requirements beyond those mentioned in this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.129 REQUIRED APPLICATION MATERIALS.
   The applicant for a permit, in addition to other requirements, shall include
the name and address of the developer and a general description of the
construction schedule and construction cost. The application for a permit shall
be accompanied by 10 copies of plans that indicate the following:
   (A)   Location and site of the manufactured home park.
   (B)   Location, size, and character of all manufactured home lots,
manufactured home stands (i.e. what structure is to be placed on), storage
areas, recreational areas, pedestrian walkways/pathways, central refuse
disposal, roadways, parking spaces and sites, proposed vegetation, proposed
screening, and all setback dimensions.
   (C)   Detailed landscaping plans and specifications.
   (D)   Location and width of sidewalks/pathways.
   (E)   Plans for sanitary sewage disposal, surface drainage, water supply,
electrical service, telephone service, and gas service.
   (F)   Plans for an overhead street lighting system shall be submitted for
approval by the City Engineer.
   (G)   Plans for drainage, including each lot and the entire manufactured
home park, shall be submitted for approval by the City Engineer.
   (H)   The proposed method of disposing of garbage and refuse shall be
identified and described.
   (I)   Location and size of all streets abutting the manufactured home park,
and all driveways from such streets to the park. Access to the manufactured
home park must be provided from a public street.
   (J)   Plans and specifications for all road construction either within the
manufactured home park or directly related to park operation.
   (K)   Floor plans of all service buildings to be constructed within the
manufactured home park.
   (L)   Such other information as may be required or requested by the
community.
   (M)   Detailed description of maintenance procedures and grounds
supervision, including but not limited to, lawn maintenance, snow removal and
garbage collection and removal. The proposed procedures shall be as restrictive
as those of the city.
   (N)   An acknowledgment wherein the owner of the park grants the city access
to the public areas of the park for purposes including, but not limited to,
fire protection, emergency assistance and routine patrol/police actions.
   (O)   Plans and specifications for severe weather shelters that shall be
designed in accordance with state laws.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
To view Tables A and B in PDF, click HERE
 
TABLE A: RESIDENTIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS (See §§ 154.070 - 154.120 for complete lists)
             Minimum Lot  Minimum                                                                  Rear Yard                                                                     Maximum                  Accessory
             Size         Lot     Front Yard Setback                                               Setback      Side Yard Setback                                                Height        Bulk       Building   Density
                          Width
                                                                                                                                                                                 No principal                        Single-
R-1                                                                                                                                                                              structure or                        Family:
Single-                                                                                                                                                                          building                 No         10,500 sq
Family       10,500 sq ft 75 ft   30 ft                                                            35 ft        Internal Lot: 8 ft                                               shall exceed             accessory  ft
Residential                                                                                                     Corner Lot: 15 ft                                                three stories            buildings, Two-Family
154.080                                                                                                                                                                          or 30 feet in            including  and Cluster
                                                                                                                                                                                 height,                  garages,   Housing:
                                                                                                                                                                                 whichever is             on any lot 5,000 sq ft
R-2                                                                                                                                                                              less, except  Floor area may be     Single-
Medium       Single-      Single-                                                                                                                                                the following ratio and  placed     Family:
Density      Family:      Family:                                                                  Single- and  Single- and Two-Family:                                          which shall   ground     less than  6,000 sq ft
Residential  6,000 sq ft  60 ft   Single- and Two-Family: 30 ft                                    Two-Family:  Internal Lot: 8 ft                                               not exceed 45 floor area 5 ft from  Two-Family
Single-      Two-Family:  Two-                                                                     35 ft        Corner Lot: 12 ft                                                feet in       shall not  the side   and Cluster
Family       10,000 sq ft Family:                                                                                                                                                height:       exceed:    and/or     Housing:
District                  80 ft                                                                                                                                                  church        0.3        rear       5,000 sq ft
154.090                                                                                                                                                                          spires,       Maximum    property
                                                                                                                                                                                 belfries, or  40%        lines of
                                                                                                                                                                                 cupolas that  impervious the lot.
             Single-                                                                                                                                                             do not        surface    Accessory  Duplex:
R-3          Family                                                                                                                                                              contain       coverage.  buildings  5,000 sq ft
Townhouse &  Detached:                                                                                                                                                           usable space;            including  Townhouse/
Multiple-    7,200 sq ft                                                                                        Internal Lot: 8 ft                                               monuments;               garages on Multiple
Family       Duplex:      60 ft   30 ft                                                            35 ft        Corner Lot: 12 ft                                                flag poles;              any corner Family:
Residential  10,000 sq ft                                                                                                                                                        radio,                   lot where  3,000 sq ft
154.100      Townhouse,                                                                                                                                                          television               the        per
             Multiple:                                                                                                                                                           and other                principal  dwelling
             9,000 sq ft                                                                                                                                                         communication            structure  unit
                                                                                                                                                                                 towers; and              is
                                                                                                                                                                                 chimneys.                incomplete
                                                                                                                                                                                                          or non-
                                                                                                                                                                                                          existent
                                                                                                                                                                                                          as of
                                                                                                                                                                                                          January 1,
                                                                                                                                                                                                          1994, may
                                                                                                                                                                                                          be placed
                                                                                                                                                                                                          no closer
                                                                                                                                                                                                          to the
                                                                                                                                                                                                          side
                                                                                                                                                                                                          property
                                                                                                                                                                                 No principal             line than
                                                                                                                                                                                 structure or             the front
                                                                                                                                                                                 building                 yard
                                                                                                                                                                                 shall exceed             setback in
                                                                                                                                                                                 four stories             effect on
                                                                                                                                                                                 or 40 feet in            the
                                                                                                                                                                                 height,                  relevant   Minimum lot
                                                                                                                                                                                 whichever is  Ground     side       area per
                                                                                                                                                                                 less, except  Floor area street.    dwelling
                                                                                                                                                                                 the following should not Uncovered  unit in a
                                                                                                                                                                                 which shall   exceed:    decks must multiple
R-4                                                                                                                                                                              not exceed 45 0.4        be placed  family
Multiple-                                                                                                                                                                        ft in height: Floor area on any lot development
Family       10,000 sq ft 80 ft   30 ft                                                            35 ft        Internal Lot: 15 ft                                              church        should not in         shall not
Residential                                                                                                     Corner Lot: 15 ft                                                spires,       exceed:    compliance be less
154.110                                                                                                                                                                          belfries, or  0.5        with the   than 1,320
                                                                                                                                                                                 cupolas that  Maximum    rear,      sq ft of
                                                                                                                                                                                 do not        50%        side, and  lot area
                                                                                                                                                                                 contain       impervious front      for each
                                                                                                                                                                                 usable space; surface.   setbacks   dwelling
                                                                                                                                                                                 monuments;               for the    unit.
                                                                                                                                                                                 flag poles;              principal
                                                                                                                                                                                 radio,                   structure
                                                                                                                                                                                 television               on the
                                                                                                                                                                                 and other                lot,
                                                                                                                                                                                 communication            except in
                                                                                                                                                                                 towers; and              the R-
                                                                                                                                                                                 chimneys.                1 and R-
                                                                                                                                                                                                          2 where
                                                                                                                                                                                                          decks can
                                                                                                                                                                                                          be located
                                                                                                                                                                                                          a minimum
                                                                                                                                                                                                          of 20 feet
                                                                                                                                                                                                          from the
                                                                                                                                                                                                          rear lot
                                                                                                                                                                                                          line.


             Each                                                                                  10 ft within
             manufactured                                                                          manufactured
             home site                                                                             home parks   5 ft within manufactured home parks platted after January 1,
             shall        Lot                                                                      platted      2014.
R-5          contain at   Width:  25 ft within manufactured home parks platted after Jan. 1, 2014  after        Within manufactured home parks platted prior to January 1, 2014:
Manufactured least 5,000  50 ft   20 ft within manufactured home parks platted prior to 2014       January 1,   Internal Lot: 3 ft                                               Maximum Lot Coverage: The area occupied by a
Home         sq ft of     Lot     Lots that have a curved front shall have at least ½ of the home 2014.        Corner Lot: 10 ft                                                manufactured home shall not exceed 30% of the
District     land area    Depth:  adjacent to the curved portion. If the front of the home is      3 ft within  Lots that have a curved front shall have at least ½ of the home total area of the manufactured home site.
154.120      for          100 ft  adjacent, the setback is 20 ft.                                  manufactured adjacent to the curved portion. If the side of the home is
             exclusive                                                                             home parks   adjacent the setback is 10 ft.
             use of the                                                                            platted
             occupant.                                                                             prior to
                                                                                                   2014.
 
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 12-2-2013; Am. Ord.
2014-05, passed 5-19-2014; Am. Ord. 2015-07, passed 6-1-2015; Am. Ord. 2018-12,
passed 7-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020 ; Am. Ord. 2021-02, passed
2-1-2021)
 
TABLE B: DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS TABLE (See §§ 154.070 – 154.120 for complete lists)
             Minimum Livable Floor Space: Single-                                                                                   Limit on
             Family                               Parking and Garage Parking                                                        Surfacing in
                                                                                                                                    Front Yard
                                                  •   Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum of 2 off-street parking spaces. A
                                                  minimum of a 1-car garage, expandable to a 2-car garage while meeting required
                                                  yard requirements is required at the time of constructing the dwelling.
R-1                                               •   Parking in the front yard shall only be on an improved driveway consisting of
Single-      One Story: 900 sq ft                 concrete, brick pavers, or asphalt-bituminous pavement. Property developed and
Family       Two-Story: 1,200 sq ft               property for which construction has commenced or a building permit issued prior
Residential  Duplex: 900 sq ft per unit           to December 31, 1991 and which has a driveway with the grade sloped to a paved
154.080                                           city street shall conform to this requirement on or before December 31, 1994.
                                                  Properties which have a driveway with the grade sloped to an unpaved city street
                                                  shall conform to this requirement within 3 years after the city street is
                                                  improved with an asphalt-bituminous pavement.
                                                  •   Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum of 2 off-street parking spaces. A
R-2                                               minimum of a 1-car garage, expandable to a 2-car garage while meeting required
Medium                                            yard requirements is required at the time of constructing the dwelling.
Density                                           •   Parking in the front yard shall only be on an improved driveway consisting of
Residential  One Story: 900 sq ft                 concrete, brick pavers, or asphalt-bituminous pavement. Property developed and
Single-      Two-Story: 1,200 sq ft               property for which construction has commenced or a building permit issued prior       eways
Family       Duplex: 900 sq ft per unit           to December 31, 1991 and which has a driveway with the grade sloped to a paved        surfaces
District                                          city street shall conform to this requirement on or before December 31, 1994.         outdoor
154.090                                           Properties which have a driveway with the grade sloped to an unpaved city street      ing
                                                  shall conform to this requirement within 3 years after the city street is             l not
                                                  improved with an asphalt-bituminous pavement.                                         py more
                                                  •   Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum of 2 parking spaces.                  40% of
             Single-Family House:                 •   Each single-family, duplex, and townhouse unit shall have a minimum of a 1-  front
R-3          •   One Story: 900 sq ft        car garage having a minimum width of 14 ft and a minimum depth of 20 ft.               unless
Townhouse &  •   Two-Story: 1,200 sq ft      •   Parking in the front yard shall only be on an improved driveway consisting ofoved as
Multiple-    •   Duplex: 900 sq ft per unit  concrete, brick pavers, or asphalt-bituminous pavement. Property developed and         of a
Family       Multiple-Family Units:*              property for which construction has commenced or a building permit issued prior       ned unit
Residential  •   Efficiency Units: 500 sq ft to December 31, 1991 and which has a driveway with the grade sloped to a paved        lopment.
154.100      •   One Bedroom: 600 sq ft      city street shall conform to this requirement on or before December 31, 1994.
             •   Two Bedroom: 750 sq ft      Properties which have a driveway with the grade sloped to an unpaved city street
             •   Three Bedroom: 850 sq ft    shall conform to this requirement within 3 years after the city street is
             •   Four Bedroom: 950 sq ft     improved with an asphalt-bituminous pavement.
             *The minimum areas specified above   •   Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum of 2 parking spaces. Each single-
             for multiple unit buildings shall    family dwelling unit, each dwelling in a duplex, and each townhouse unit shall
             not include areas occupied by        have a minimum of a 1 car garage with a minimum width of 14 ft and a minimum
             stairs, hallways, entryways and      depth of 20 ft. Each apartment unit shall have a minimum of 1 parking stall in an
R-4          utility rooms. Closet space in       underground garage or in a free standing garage.
Multiple-    excess of 15% of above minimum floor •   Parking in the front yard shall only be on an improved driveway consisting of
Family       areas shall not be included. No      concrete, brick pavers, or asphalt-bituminous pavement. Property developed and
Residential  multiple dwelling shall have         property for which construction has commenced or a building permit issued prior
154.110      efficiency unit in excess of 20% of  to December 31, 1991 and which has a driveway with the grade sloped to a paved
             the total number of units in the     city street shall conform to this requirement on or before December 31, 1994.
             building.                            Properties which have a driveway with the grade sloped to an unpaved city street
                                                  shall conform to this requirement within 3 years after the city street is
                                                  improved with an asphalt-bituminous pavement.
                                                  •   Each home park shall maintain off-street overload parking lot for guests of
                                                  occupants in the amount of 1 space for each 3 sites. (Meet parking standards in
R-5                                               §§
Manufactured                                      154.221 through
Home                                              154.230)
District                                          •   Each manufactured home site shall be required to provide 1 garage on site.
154.120                                           The garage shall not be wider than 24 feet and not longer than 28 feet. Two
                                                  combined garages shall be permitted on adjacent lots sharing a common wall and
                                                  shall not be wider than 28 feet in width and 28 feet in length.
 
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-10, passed 12-2-2013; Am. Ord.
2014-03, passed 5-19-2014; Am. Ord. 2014-05, passed 5-19-2014)
NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS DISTRICT (C-1)
§ 154.131 PURPOSE.
   This district is established to plan for neighborhood commercial centers
which are complementary and in close proximity to residential uses. Commercial
uses in this district should not generate large volumes of vehicular traffic
and should primarily serve nearby residents.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 154.132 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except for the following uses as such are
defined and in accordance with the required lot provisions and design and
performance standards. The following are generalized categories. If a use is
not specifically listed, the Zoning Administrator shall determine if the use is
substantially similar in nature. The Zoning Administrator or applicant may seek
input from the Planning Commission.
   (A)   Single-family detached dwelling.
   (B)   Group family day care serving 14 or less children.
   (C)   State-licensed residential facility.
   (D)   Bed and breakfasts and residential short-term rental units.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 154.133 CONDITIONAL USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except by conditional use permit for any
of the following uses as such are defined and in accordance with the required
lot provisions, design and performance standards, and conditions set by the
Council. The requirements of § 154.047 shall be met in addition to the
following conditions.
   (A)   Grocery, convenience store.
   (B)   Retail store.
   (C)   Beauty shop, barber shop.
   (D)   Laundry, dry cleaning, tailoring.
   (E)   Cafes, bakeries, florists, delicatessens.
   (F)   Automotive service station, Subject to the following:
      (1)   The parcel must abut either a collector or arterial street.
      (2)   The criteria in §
154.153(C)(1) through (5) must be met.
   (G)   Business and professional offices, such as: accounting, auditing,
bookkeeping offices, civic/social and fraternal association offices,
educational offices, governmental offices, insurance offices, investment
offices, legal offices, library and art galleries, medical/dental offices, post
office, and real estate offices.
   (H)   Funeral home. Subject to the following:
      (1)   A plan shall be submitted identifying the access points and traffic
circulation on the property. Said plan must provide for a minimal interference
to the circulation pattern on abutting streets and to adjoining uses of
property.
      (2)   Where the use abuts land in the R-l, R-2, or R-3 districts, a
landscape buffer strip having a minimum width of 10 feet and consisting of
coniferous and deciduous trees and shrubs shall be provided along said lot
lines.
   (I)   Two-family dwellings. Subject to the following:
      (1)   Two-family dwellings must provide for 2 off-street parking stalls
with immediate access off-street and 1 garage stall measuring at least 14 feet
in width and 20 feet in depth for each unit.
      (2)   Each unit must have separate entrances.
      (3)   All units must meet the current Building Code and Fire Code.
      (4)   Each unit shall have a minimum of 900 square feet of livable floor
area.
      (5)   Must meet all other requirement of this chapter.
   (J)   Apartments located above the first floor, provided off-street parking
requirements are met.
   (K)   Multiple-family dwellings, provided off-street parking requirements
are met.
   (L)   Uses not explicitly enumerated in this section as permitted uses, but
are closely similar thereto.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 154.134 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are permitted accessory uses as such uses are defined and
in accordance with the required lot provisions and design standards.
   (A)   Accessory structures, provided:
      (1)   A detached accessory structure shall not exceed 840 square feet or
exceed the ground floor area of the principal structure located on the same
lot, whichever is less.
      (2)   Garage door openings shall not exceed 9 feet in height.
      (3)   No accessory structure shall be constructed on any lot prior to the
time of construction of the principal building to which it is an accessory.
      (4)   The sidewall of the accessory structure shall not exceed 10 feet,
measured from the finished grade. The highest point of the entire accessory
structure cannot exceed the height of the primary structure.
      (5)   The roof pitch, measured as steepness of roof, of an accessory
structure may meet, but not exceed, the roof pitch of the primary structure.
      (6)   Exterior building materials, roof style, and colors are similar to
the principal structure.
      (7)   The accessory structure shall be constructed on a concrete slab or
footing.
      (8)   The accessory structure shall be located to the side or rear of the
principal structure, and is not permitted within the front yard or within a
corner side yard.
      (9)   One accessory structure is permitted on a lot with an existing
attached garage. One accessory structure is permitted on a lot in addition to a
detached garage with the combination of the 2 structures not exceeding 1,000
square feet. A detached garage shall be considered a detached accessory
structure.
   (B)   Boarders. The keeping of not more than 2 boarders or roomers by a
resident family.
   (C)   Car wash, subject to the following:
      (1)   The car wash must be accessory to an automotive service station
(gas station) on the same parcel.
      (2)   Stacking space shall be provided to accommodate 4 vehicles.
      (3)   Stacking space does not interfere with on-site circulation patterns
or required on-site parking or loading areas.
      (4)   Parking and stacking spaces shall be screened from view of abutting
residential districts.
      (5)   Provisions are made to control and reduce noise, and special
precautions shall be taken to limit the effects of noise associated with the
car wash operation, dryer and vacuum machines. The car/truck wash doors must
remain closed during the entire operation cycle of the car/truck wash and
dryer. Larger setbacks may be required.
   (D)   Decorative landscape features, including but not limited to statues,
rocks, reflecting ponds, benches, arbors, terraces, and patios.
   (E)   Fences and walls, in accordance with §
154.096(B) and (C).
   (F)   Gardening or other horticultural use where no sale of products is
conducted on the site.
   (G)   Off-street parking and loading, subject to §§
154.221 through
154.230.
   (H)   Permitted home occupations, subject to §§ 154.371 through 154.378.
   (I)   Private swimming pool or tennis court.
   (J)   Satellite dishes and antennae.
   (K)   Signs, subject to §§
154.241 through
154.260.
   (L)   Solar collection device.
   (M)   Storage buildings, screen houses, and recreational buildings.
   (N)   Temporary outdoor storage or display of goods used in conjunction with
and on the same site as the permitted use, provided that the goods are not
outdoors overnight; the storage or display area does not exceed 100 square
feet; and the storage or display is not within the required front yard, or when
a side yard abuts a street in the side yard setback area.
   (O)   Tobacco sales, where the principal use is grocery store or convenience
store. Tobacco sales shall not occupy more than 10% of the floor area.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-09, passed 12-5-2016; Am .Ord.
2017-04, passed 12-18-2017; Am. Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-17-2021; Am. Ord. 2023-
01, passed 2-13-2023)
§ 154.135 LOT REQUIREMENTS. (SEE TABLE C, COMMERCIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS TABLE).
   (A)   Corner lot. If a corner lot has a rear lot line that is common with
the side lot line or a lot to the rear, no building shall occupy that portion
of the rear yard of the corner lot that abuts on such street for a depth equal
to or greater than the front yard for such lot to the rear.
   (B)   Dormer. A single-family house which legally existed or for which a
valid building permit had been granted on or before January 3, 1983 may be
expanded by an addition or dormer provided the addition does not extend beyond
the existing side yard setback line and provided the combined width of the side
yard for said building and adjacent building thereto is not less than 10 feet.
   (C)   One principal building. There shall be no more than 1 principal
building structure on 1 lot except as provided through the submittal and
approval of a planned unit development.
   (D)    Yard. No yard or other open space shall be reduced in area so as to
make such yard or other open space less than the minimum required by this
section; and if the existing yard or other open space as existing is less than
the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced. No required yard or open
space of any structure shall be included as a part of any yard or open space
required for another structure.
   (E)   Encroachment exceptions. The following shall not be encroachments on
yard setback requirements:
      (1)   Bays not exceeding a depth of 2 feet or containing an area of more
than 20 square feet. Awnings, door hoods, chimneys, flues, belt courses,
leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels, ornamental features, cornices, eaves,
gutters and the like, provided they do not extend more than 3 feet into a yard
and provided such encroachment is no closer than 4 feet from all lot lines.
      (2)   Yard lights and the nameplate signs, floodlights or other sources
of light illuminating authorized illuminated signs or illuminating parking
areas, loading areas, or yards for safety and security purposes, provided the
direct source of light is not visible from the public right-of-way or adjacent
residential property.
      (3)   In front yards only, awnings and door hoods extending 5 feet into
the required front yard setback area.
      (4)   In front yards only, vestibules extending 5 feet into the required
front yard setback area if the vestibule (a) is designed, constructed and
attached to the principal structure in accordance with the requirements of the
Building Code; (b) is constructed of materials compatible with the principal
structure; and (c) has an area as measured to the outside of the outside walls
which does not exceed 30 square feet.
      (5)   In front yards only:
         (a)   Heating, ventilating and air conditioning equipment, provided
that no portion of such equipment shall extend more than 6 feet from the
principal structure, no portion shall be more than 36 inches in height, and
such equipment shall be screened from view from a public right-of-way by
evergreen plantings.
         (b)   Canopies no more than 12 feet wide, which shall not extend more
than ½ the distance into the required front or side yard, if there is a
demonstrated need and no other practical alternate solution, provided that the
encroachment is approved by the Fire Chief and Zoning Administrator.
      (6)   Terraces, steps, uncovered porches, stoops or similar structures
which do not extend more than 2 ½ feet from the height of the ground floor
level of the principal building can extend 3 feet into the setback area,
provided such encroachment is no closer than 5 feet from any lot line and is
outside of any easement.
      (7)   Flag poles, bird baths, and other ornamental features detached from
the principal building.
      (8)   Recreational and laundry drying equipment, arbors and trellises,
provided they are a minimum 10 feet from a lot line.
      (9)   In side or rear yards only, heating, ventilating, and air
conditioning equipment in interior side yards, side yards abutting a street and
rear yards, provided that such equipment shall extend no more than 6 feet from
the principal structure and the equipment shall be screened from view with
evergreen plantings.
      (10)   In rear yards only, balconies, breezeways, detached outdoor picnic
shelters and recreational equipment, except as regulated hereinafter.
   (F)   Trash storage prohibited in front yard. There shall be no front yard
storage of trash or trash containers except in the 24-hour period prior to a
scheduled pickup.
   (G)   Setbacks. See
Table C, Commercial Lot Requirements Table.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 154.136 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The design and performance standards are established to encourage a high
standard of development by providing assurance that land uses will be
compatible. The performance standards are designed to prevent and eliminate
those conditions which depreciate property values that cause blight or are
detrimental to the environment. Before any building permit is approved, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the proposed use will conform to
the design and performance standards. The applicant or owner shall supply data
necessary to demonstrate such conformance.
   (A)   Noise. It is unlawful to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued, any noise in excess of the noise levels set forth in Minnesota Rules
7030.0040, which includes standards for activities by the noise area
classification (NAC) system, established in part by Minnesota Rules 7030.0050,
unless noise such noise be reasonably necessary to the preservation of life,
health, safety or property. Sounds in excess of these limitations are
violations of this section whether the sound originates in a residential
district or any other district.
   (B)   Trash storage prohibited in front yard. There shall be no front yard
storage of trash or trash containers except in the 24-hour period prior to a
scheduled pickup.
   (C)   Boulevards, sidewalks, and street trees. In projects involving new
construction, the plans and improvements must include construction of a
sidewalk where one is included in the city's sidewalk plan and boulevard sod
and street trees shall be provided consistent with city requirements.
   (D)   Communication structures. Satellite dishes, antennae, and similar
devices shall not be allowed in the required front yard nor within 12 feet of
the side lot line or rear lot line.
   (E)   Business inside. All business, service, storage, merchandise, display
and repairs and processing, where permitted, shall be conducted wholly within
an enclosed structure except for off-street vehicular parking, off-street
loading, and for storage or displays of goods complying with §
154.134(D).
   (F)   Sale of goods. Goods produced on the premises shall be sold only on
the premises, at retail, and the processes and equipment employed in production
shall not produce any offensive odor, dust, smoke, ash, gas, noise, vibration
or refuse. Any use shall be so operated in compliance with the Clean Air Act,
as amended, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and MN Pollution Control
Agency (MPCA) regulations. All activities that emit radioactivity shall comply
with the minimum requirements of the federal regulatory body. Any use shall be
operated so as to control the emission of smoke or particulate matter to the
degree that it is not detrimental to, or shall not endanger the public health,
safety, comfort or general welfare of the public. For the purpose of this
section, the regulations and standards adopted by the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency shall be employed.
   (G)   Site layout for commercial uses. The site layout of a commercial use
must be compatible with and not detrimental to other surrounding property in
the general area and make adequate provision for:
      (1)   The needs of pedestrians, automobiles, and bicycles, including
proper circulation and parking;
      (2)   Use of the existing topography and site vegetation in the location
and orientation of structures and other facilities;
      (3)   Traffic conditions;
      (4)   Transitional features and decorative walls or live hedges for
purposes of separation and screening from residential zoning and uses;
      (5)   View to and from the site;
      (6)   Storage of trash in the principal building or in an accessory
building of architecture and materials identical to the principal building;
      (7)   Planted parking islands to control parking and traffic circulation
where appropriate and landscape breaks in areas intended for the parking of
approximately 20 cars in a row;
      (8)   Proper drainage of a site;
      (9)   Location of curb cuts so that no cuts exist closer to an
intersection than 30 feet from the point of intersection of the setback lines
adjacent to intersecting streets; and
      (10)   Relating the use of the site to existing and proposed uses of
other-abutting properties.
   (H)   Outdoor lighting. All outdoor lighting which is not globe lighting
shall be directed perpendicular to the ground or directly on a building so that
no direct rays are visible from off the property.
   (I)   Utilities. Shall be placed underground and meters shall be screened
from view from the street.
   (J)   Traffic visibility. No wall, fence, structure, tree, shrub, vegetation
or other obstruction shall be permitted in any yard or setback which poses a
danger to traffic by obscuring the view from any street or roadway. Visibility
from any street or roadway shall be unobstructed above the height of 2 feet to
a height of 5 feet within the triangle described as beginning at the
intersection of the projected curb lines of two intersecting streets, thence 30
feet along one curb, thence diagonally to a point 30 feet from the point of
beginning of the other curb line, thence to the point of beginning.
   (K)   Landscaping. Development and modifications to all parcels is subject
to the provisions of §§
154.321 through
154.326.
   (L)   Required parking. Development and modifications to all parcels and
buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.221 through
154.230.
   (M)   Signs. Development and modification to all parcels, street uses and
buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.241 through
154.260.
   (N)   Architecture and materials. Development and modification to all
parcels, structures, and buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.311 through
154.316.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2021-07, passed 5-17-2021)
CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT (C-2)
§ 154.141 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this district is to encourage continuation of a viable
downtown by allowing prime retail sales and service uses, office, entertainment
facilities, public and semi-public uses, and in special circumstances,
residential use; and to preserve and build on the historic character of the
downtown using the historic and natural resources available to create a tourist
draw as well as to provide a unique blend of retail and service businesses for
the convenience of local residents.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.142 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except for the following uses as such are
defined and in accordance with the required lot provisions and design and
performance standards. The following are generalized categories. If a use is
not specifically listed, the Zoning Administrator shall determine if the use is
substantially similar in nature. The Zoning Administrator or applicant may seek
input from the Planning Commission.
   (A)   General retail sales and services, including:
      (1)   Antiques and collectibles.
      (2)   Appliance sales and service.
      (3)   Auto parts sales and indoor service.
      (4)   Bakery.
      (5)   Bicycle sales and indoor repair.
      (6)   Books, magazine and newspapers.
      (7)   Clothing and shoe stores and seamstress/repair services.
      (8)   Electronics sales and services.
      (9)   Florists.
      (10)   Gifts and novelties.
      (11)   Grocery stores.
      (12)   Hair salons, barbers, and spas.
      (13)   Hardware.
      (14)   Household furnishings.
      (15)   Interior decorating sales; sale of floor covering, paint,
wallpaper, materials and objects of interior decorating.
      (16)   Laundromat; self-service.
      (17)   Licensed tattoo establishment.
      (18)   Meat markets.
      (19)   Pet shops provided the operation does not include boarding,
maintenance of a pen(s) outside of the structure, or operates so as to cause an
offensive odor or noise.
      (20)   Photography and photo framing.
      (21)   Printing and publishing.
      (22)   Sporting goods.
      (23)   Travel agency.
      (24)   Variety store.
      (25)   Video store.
   (B)   Professional services including:
      (1)   Accounting.
      (2)   Banks and financial institutions.
      (3)   Legal.
      (4)   Insurance agencies.
      (5)   Real estate.
   (C)   Drinking and eating establishments, including:
      (1)   Brewery, micro-distillery, micro-brewery, micro-winery or tap room.
      (2)   Cafes.
      (3)   Class I and II restaurants.
      (4)   Delicatessens.
      (5)   Private clubs and lodges.
      (6)   On and off-sale liquor; bars.
   (D)   Health and medical, including:
      (1)   Clinic, medical.
      (2)   Chiropractic.
      (3)   Dental.
      (4)   Optometrists.
      (5)   Pharmacies.
      (6)   Therapeutic massage.
   (E)   Physical recreation and educational facilities, including:
      (1)   Bowling alleys provided they are not within 20 feet of a
residential district.
      (2)   Dance studios.
      (3)   Fitness centers and gyms.
      (4)   Martial arts.
   (F)   Public and private human services, schools or academies, including:
      (1)   Daycare facilities.
      (2)   Government offices and structures.
      (3)   Government utility buildings and structures.
      (4)   Library.
      (5)   Music or performing arts.
      (6)   Public parks.
      (7)   Performing arts center.
      (8)   Postal service.
      (9)   Religious institutions.
      (10)   Schools or academies.
   (G)   Repair services and sales, including:
      (1)   Bicycle sales and indoor services.
      (2)   Electrical appliance repair, conducted indoors.
      (3)   Auto sales - provided that all vehicles for sale are housed within
a structure that has an overhead door installed prior to November 29, 2011, and
provides notification to pedestrians when vehicles are exiting the structure.
      (4)   Storage of vehicles, trailers, and recreation vehicles are housed
within a structure that has an overhead door installed prior to November 29,
2011, and provides notification to pedestrians when vehicles are exiting the
structure.
   (H)   Residential use, including:
      (1)   Bed and breakfasts and residential short term rental units.
      (2)   Single-family residential dwellings provided the structure intended
to be used is the structure originally constructed on the lot, the original
historic use of the structure was residential, off-street parking is provided
in conformance with the off-street parking and loading spaces, and the
impervious surface of the site is not increased.
   (I)   Cannabis sales, retail, subject to the following:
      (1)   The use must be setback 1,000 feet from schools as established by
M.S. § 342.13.
      (2)   No sale of cannabis for consumption on the licensed premises may be
made between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. any day of the week.
      (3)   The business must be licensed by the State of Minnesota and in
compliance with the standards set by Minnesota Statutes, Minnesota Rules, and
the Office of Cannabis Management.
   (J)   Cannabis delivery, subject to the following:
      (1)   The use must be setback 1,000 feet from schools as established by
M.S. § 342.13.
      (2)   The business must be licensed by the State of Minnesota and in
compliance with the standards set by Minnesota Statutes, Minnesota Rules, and
the Office of Cannabis Management.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-2-2013; Am. Ord.
2016-09, passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord. 2022-04, passed 7-11-2022; Am. Ord. 2024-
09, passed - -)
§ 154.143 CONDITIONAL USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except by conditional use permit for any
of the following uses as such are defined and in accordance with the required
lot provisions, design and performance standards, and conditions set by the
Council. The requirements of § 154.047 Conditional Use Permits shall be met in
addition to the following conditions:
   (A)   Apartments; located above the first floor provided off-street parking
requirements are met.
   (B)   Carwash; provided the site plan illustrates appropriate vehicular and
pedestrian circulation and stacking of vehicles.
   (C)   Event center, subject to the following:
      (1)   A parking plan shall be submitted to the city for approval. The
parking plan will be evaluated in accordance with the 2024 Downtown Jordan
Parking Study.
      (2)   Any signed parking agreements for the proposed use must be
submitted to the city before a certificate of occupancy is issued for the event
center.
      (3)   Parking agreements shall be reviewed annually to ensure adequate
parking is provided.
      (4)   Hours of operation for the hosting of events shall be limited to 7:
00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. unless otherwise approved specifically by the conditional
use permit. This shall not limit work conducted by contractors and employees of
the business.
   (D)   Funeral home. Subject to the following:
      (1)   A plan shall be submitted identifying the access points and traffic
circulation on the property. Said plan must provide for a minimal interference
to the circulation pattern on abutting streets and to adjoining uses of
property.
      (2)   Where the use abuts land in the RR, R-l, R-2, or R-3 districts, a
landscape buffer strip having a minimum width of 10 feet and consisting of
coniferous and deciduous trees and shrubs shall be provided along said lot
lines.
   (E)   Hotels and motels, provided there is sufficient off-street parking.
   (F)   Dance hall, provided off-street parking requirements are met and the
site is at least 60 feet from a residential district.
   (G)   Multiple-family dwellings; provided off-street parking requirements
are met.
   (H)   Outdoor seating area for food, on sale liquor establishments, and
restaurants.
   (I)   Pawn shop.
   (J)   Residential units on the ground floor of a commercial building.
Subject to the following:
      (1)   Only 1 single-family residential unit shall be permitted per
structure;
      (2)   The square footage of the residential unit is no more than 50% of
the gross floor area of the first floor of the building, with the remaining
50%+ retained for commercial use;
      (3)   The residential unit is located in the back of the commercial
space;
      (4)   A yard with usable open space exists in the rear of the building;
      (5)   A separate rear entrance is provided for the residential structure
that is not used for commercial purposes;
      (6)   Off-street parking is provided in conformance with §§
154.221 through
154.230 Off-Street Parking and Loading Spaces;
      (7)   The residential unit must meet Building Code, ADA and other
applicable access requirements;
      (8)   The requirements of §
154.047 Conditional Use Permits are met.
   (K)   Theater, not a drive-in; provided the site plan illustrates
appropriate vehicular and pedestrian circulation and parking.
   (L)   Four story buildings, or buildings 50 feet in height, whichever is
less, may be approved through the conditional use permit process, as outlined
in §
154.047 Conditional Use Permits, provided:
      (1)   The height of the principal structure does not deviate from the
height of adjacent building(s) by more than 1 story;
      (2)   The Fire Department has approved the plans; and
      (3)   The proposed building height does not exceed more than 60% of the
width of the adjacent roadway.
   (M)   Parks, private. Subject to the following:
      (1)   Up to 50% of the total lot area may be used for parking with
approval by the City Council. Parking areas must be constructed with curbs and
gutters.
      (2)   Any areas used for parking and drive aisles must be paved. All
other areas must be landscaped.
      (3)   Screening with landscaping must be provided for adjacent
residential properties that share a lot line. Screening will be provided with
landscaping at a minimum height of 3 feet to prevent spillover lighting from
vehicle headlights.
      (4)   Any structure, including accessory structures and fences, must be
designed to meet the design and performance standards in §
154.147 and the standards of the Downtown Jordan Master Vision.
      (5)   Any sculpture, statue, or other three-dimensional piece of art that
is installed a private park must meet the structure setbacks established in §
154.247.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-10, passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord.
2022-04, passed 7-11-2022; Am. Ord. 2024-05, passed 9-23-2024)
§ 154.144 INTERIM USES.
   (A)   Manufacturing and wholesaling. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The use must not be disruptive to the viability of downtown and
must be found to be complimentary to the downtown area.
      (2)   The site plan must contain adequate provisions for loading,
unloading, and inside storage of materials, including waste materials, and it
shall include design elements consistent and compatible with the downtown image
and objectives of this section.
      (3)   The use is proposed in a building with a history of manufacturing/
wholesaling activity.
      (4)   The use shall include a sunset date established by the Planning
Commission and approved by the City Council.
      (5)   Procedures outlined in §
154.051 Interim Use Permit.
      (6)   Refuse. All waste material, debris, refuse, or garbage shall be
kept in an enclosed building or properly contained in a closed container
designed for such purposes.
      (7)   Toxic or noxious matter.  Any use shall be so operated so as not to
discharge across the boundaries of the lot or through percolation into the
atmosphere or the subsoil beyond the boundaries of the lot wherein such use is
located, toxic or noxious matter in such concentration as to be detrimental to,
or endanger the public health, safety, comfort or welfare, or cause injury or
damage to property, business, or the environment.
      (8)   Air pollution. Any use shall be operated so as to control the
emission of smoke or particulate matter conform to the regulations and
standards adopted by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (B)   Off-street parking lots meeting all requirements outlined in City Code
§§
154.221 through
154.230 (Off-Street Parking and Loading Spaces), provided the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   Expiration. The interim use permit shall be terminated following 5
years from the date of issuance or upon issuance of a building permit for
construction of a principal building on the site, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   There shall be no storage, display, sales, rental, or repair of
motor vehicles or any other goods, or the storage of inoperable vehicles on the
property.
   (C)   Gravel parking lots, provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Expiration. The interim use permit shall be terminated following 2
years from the date of issuance or upon issuance of a building permit for
construction of a principal building on the site, whichever occurs first.
      (2)   There shall be no storage, display, sales, rental, or repair of
motor vehicles or any other goods, or the storage of inoperable vehicles on the
property.
      (3)   A grading and drainage plan shall be approved by the City Engineer.
      (4)   A physical barrier shall be installed along the perimeter of the
parking area to prevent vehicle encroachment into the public right-of-way.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2018-14, passed 9-17-2018)
§ 154.145 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are permitted accessory uses as such uses are defined and
in accordance with the required lot provisions and design standards. However,
any incidental repair or processing necessary to conduct a permitted principal
use shall not occupy more than 30% of the floor area.
   (A)   Electronic amusement devices (machines), where the principal use is a
Class I or Class II restaurant or a dry goods, drug, variety, hobby, or toy
store. Up to 4 such devices are permitted. However, if the area of the
principal use is at least 15,000 square feet, up to 30 such devices are
permitted.
   (B)   Off-street parking and loading.
   (C)   Retail sales of edible cannabinoid products, where the principal use
is a business that holds one or more of the following licenses: 3.2% malt
liquor on-sale license, 3,2 % malt liquor off-sale license, off-sale
intoxicating liquor license, on-sale intoxicating liquor license, combination
on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor license, on-sale wine license, brewer
taproom on-sale license, or small brewer off-sale license, as defined under §
111.22. Edible cannabinoid products shall not occupy more than 10% of the
publicly accessible floor area.
   (D)   Signs.
   (E)   Solar collectors.
   (F)   Temporary outdoor storage or display of goods used in conjunction with
and on the same site as the permitted use, provided that the goods are not
outdoors overnight; the storage or display area does not exceed 100 square
feet; and the storage or display is not within the required front yard, or when
a side yard abuts a street in the side yard, setback area.
   (G)   Tobacco sales, where the principal use is a bar, grocery store, and
off-sale liquor. Tobacco sales shall not occupy more than 10% of the floor
area.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am .Ord. 2017-04, passed 12-18-2017; Am. Ord.
2023-01, passed 2-13-2023; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 154.146 LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (See
Table C, Commercial Lot Requirements Table).
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-10, passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord.
2018-01, passed --2018; Am. Ord. 2018-05, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 154.147 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The design and performance standards are established to encourage a high
standard of development by providing assurance that land uses will be
compatible. The performance standards are designed to prevent and eliminate
those conditions which depreciate property values that cause blight or are
detrimental to the environment. Before any building permit is approved, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the proposed use will conform to
the design and performance standards. The applicant or owner shall supply data
necessary to demonstrate such conformance.
   (A)   Business inside. All business, service, storage, merchandise, display
and repair and processing, where permitted, shall be conducted wholly within an
enclosed structure except where provided by conditional use permit.
   (B)   Storage. Open storage in conjunction with a permitted business shall
be prohibited.
   (C)   Sale of goods. Goods produced on the premises shall be sold only on
the premises, at retail, and the processes and equipment employed in production
shall not produce any offensive odor, dust, smoke, ash, gas, noise, vibration,
or refuse.
   (D)   Site layout. The site layout must be compatible with and not
detrimental to other surrounding property in the general area and make adequate
provision for:
      (1)   The needs of pedestrians, automobiles, and bicycles, including
proper circulation and parking;
      (2)   Use of the existing topography and site vegetation in the location
and orientation of structures and other facilities;
      (3)   Traffic conditions;
      (4)   Transitional features and decorative walls or live hedges for
separation and screening purposes;
      (5)   Views to and from the site;
      (6)   Storage of trash in the principal building or in an accessory
building of architecture and materials identical to the principal building;
      (7)   Planted parking islands to control parking and traffic circulation
where appropriate and landscape breaks in areas intended for the parking of
approximately 20 cars in a row;
      (8)   Proper drainage of a site;
      (9)   Location of curb cuts so that no cuts exist closer to an
intersection than 30 feet from the point of intersection of the setback lines
adjacent to intersecting streets; and
      (10)   Relating the use of the site to existing and proposed uses of
other abutting properties.
   (E)   Design permit. A design review permit is required for any/all site
alterations in the Central Business District. Plans shall be consistent with
the Central Business District Design Standards.
   (F)   Utilities. Shall be placed underground and meters shall be screened
from view from the street.
   (G)   Required parking. Development and modifications to all parcels and
buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.221 through
154.230 Off-street Parking and Loading Spaces.
   (H)   Signs. Development and modification to all parcels, street uses and
buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.241 through
154.260 Signs.
   (I)   Architecture and materials. Development and modification to all
parcels, structures, and buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.311 through
154.316 Architectural Control and Building Materials and the Central Business
District Design Standards.
   (J)   Principal building. There shall be no more than 1 principal building
on 1 lot except as provided under conditional use provisions.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2018-01, passed --2018; Am. Ord.
2018-05, passed 3-5-2018)
§ 154.148 OTHER CONTROLS.
   This subchapter is in addition to and not in lieu of other official controls
adopted by the City Council or the Secretary of Interior Standards for
buildings on the national register of historic places. Where the standards,
regulations or provisions contained in this subchapter are inconsistent or in
conflict with other standards, regulations or provisions any provisions of the
City Code, Secretary of the Interior, or the provisions of any other applicable
statutes, rules, regulations or ordinances, the most restrictive provisions
shall govern in order to preserve, protect, and enhance the historic character
and charm of the central business district.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
HIGHWAY COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (C-3)
§ 154.151 PURPOSE.
   This district is established to recognize the need for commercial
establishments, preferably in clusters, in close proximity to major
thoroughfares. The purpose of the district is to provide appropriate locations
for a broad range of commercial activities which are primarily oriented to
highway uses rather than the central business district and which are designed
to serve local and regional customers, vehicular and non-vehicular traffic.
With a highly visible viewshed, these areas should be designed to enhance the
aesthetics, control traffic movement, and include sufficient landscaping to
minimize the impact typically associated with highway commercial development.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.152 PERMITTED USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except for the following uses as such are
defined and in accordance with the required lot provisions and design and
performance standards.
   (A)   Retail or service businesses supplying commodities or performing a
service, as follows:
      (1)   Apparel or clothing store.
      (2)   Barber or beauty shop, personal care salons and spas.
      (3)   Brewery, micro-distillery, micro-brewery, micro-winery, or tap
room.
      (4)   Business and trade schools.
      (5)   Churches.
      (6)   Day care facilities.
      (7)   Financial institutions.
      (8)   Funeral home.
      (9)   Furniture dealer.
      (10)   Grocery store.
      (11)   Massage therapist, licensed.
      (12)   Medical or dental clinics and hospitals.
      (13)   Motel and hotels.
      (14)   Office or professional building.
      (15)   On-sale liquor establishment.
      (16)   Off-sale liquor establishment.
      (17)   Personal services.
      (18)   Public uses related to recreation (e.g., parks) or utilities.
      (19)   Private club.
      (20)   Restaurants—Class I, II and III.
      (21)   Retail sales of edible cannabinoid products.
      (22)   Retail stores and shopping centers.
      (23)   Theaters.
      (24)   Tobacco sales.
      (25)   Video store.
   (B)   Licensed tattoo establishment.
   (C)   Library.
   (D)   Housing, provided that it is part of a Planned Mixed-Use District
(PMD) PUD on the condition that the housing does not utilize more than 60% of
the ground floor of the structure.
   (E)   Physical recreation and educational facilities, including:
      (1)   Bowling alleys, provided they are not within 20 feet of a
residential district.
      (2)   Dance studios.
      (3)   Fitness centers and gyms.
      (4)   Martial arts.
   (F)   Cannabis sales, retail, subject to the following:
      (1)   The use must be setback 1,000 feet from schools as established by
M.S. § 342.13.
      (2)   No sale of cannabis for consumption on the licensed premises may be
made between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. any day of the week.
      (3)   The business must be licensed by the State of Minnesota and in
compliance with the standards set by Minnesota Statutes, Minnesota Rules, and
the Office of Cannabis Management.
   (G)   Cannabis delivery, subject to the following:
      (1)   The use must be setback 1,000 feet from schools as established by
M.S. § 342.13.
      (2)   No delivery of cannabis for consumption may be made between 2:00
a.m. and 8:00 a.m. any day of the week.
      (3)   The business must be licensed by the State of Minnesota and in
compliance with the standards set by Minnesota Statutes, Minnesota Rules, and
the Office of Cannabis Management.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2013-11, passed 12-2-2013; Am. Ord.
2023-01, passed 2-13-2023; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed 8-28-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-
09, passed - -)
§ 154.153 CONDITIONAL USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except by conditional use permit for any
of the following uses as such are defined and in accordance with the required
lot provisions, design and performance standards, and conditions set by the
Council.
   (A)   Amusement park.
   (B)   Automotive sales including passenger cars, trucks and commercial
vehicle sales provided the required display area setback shall be curbed and
landscaped to prevent vehicle encroachment into the front yard and side yard
setback areas.
   (C)   Automotive service station and/or automotive service center or
station. Subject to the following:
      (1)   Motor fuel facilities are installed in accordance with state
standards. Adequate space shall be provided to access gas pumps and allow
maneuverability around the pumps. Underground fuel storage tanks are to be
positioned to allow adequate access by motor fuel transports and unloading
operations minimize conflict with circulation, access, and other activities on
the site.
      (2)   Wherever fuel pumps are to be installed, pump islands shall be
installed.
      (3)   A protective canopy located over the pump island(s) may be an
accessory structure on the property however adequate visibility both on and off
site shall be maintained.
      (4)   An internal site pedestrian circulation system shall be defined and
appropriate provisions made to protect such areas from encroachments by parked
cars or moving vehicles.
      (5)   No outside sale or display shall be permitted except gasoline and
other goods consumed in the normal operation of a car as well as convenience
items typically available at a gas/convenience store such as the following
products: oil, gasoline and oil additives, windshield cleaner, windshield
wipers, tires, and batteries. Small propane tanks, intended for use with gas
grills, fire wood, ice machines, bagged mulch and water softener salt, are also
permitted, provided they are not located in required setback area, and they
meet applicable building and fire codes. No products shall be sold or displayed
in any required yard nor shall the total display area occupy more than 150
square feet in area or be more than 5 feet in height. No other vehicular parts
and non-automobile oriented good shall be displayed or sold outside.
      (6)   Towing service with accompanying outdoor vehicular storage may be
allowed provided conformance with the following standards:
         (a)   Accessory. The use is an accessory to, and must accompany, an
automotive service station (gas station) on the same parcel.
         (b)   Minimum lot area. Parcels on which a towing service and
accompanying outdoor vehicular storage may occur must be a minimum of 5 acres.
         (c)   Maximum storage area. The maximum amount of parcel area occupied
by the towing service and/or outdoor vehicular storage may be 25%.
         (d)   Screening. Provision of adequate screening to satisfy, at a
minimum, the requirements outlined in §
154.157(G).
   (D)   Boat and trailer retail sales and rental, ATVs and motorcycle sales.
Subject to the following:
      (1)   Sales area. A principal structure of 800 square feet in size or
greater must be included on all sales and rental lots which contain outdoor
displays as an accessory use.
      (2)   Front yard/display area. Outdoor motor vehicle sales/leasing/rental
display area may be permitted within the required front yard provided the
following criteria are met:
         (a)   The outdoor sales/leasing/rental area shall not be less than 20
feet from the front lot line.
         (b)   The required display area setback shall be curbed and landscaped
to prevent vehicle encroachment into the front yard and side yard setback
areas.
      (3)   Outdoor sales display area is not used for seasonal storage of
vehicles, boats and/or trailers.
   (E)   Building material sales, with no outdoor storage or display.
   (F)   Event center, subject to the following:
      (1)   A parking plan shall be submitted to the city for approval.
      (2)   Any signed parking agreements for the proposed use must be
submitted to the city before a certificate of occupancy is issued for the event
center.
      (3)   Parking agreements shall be reviewed annually to ensure adequate
parking is provided.
      (4)   Hours of operation for the hosting of events shall be limited to 7:
00 a.m. to 12:00 a.m. unless otherwise approved specifically by the conditional
use permit. This shall not limit work conducted by contractors and employees of
the business.
   (G)   Farm implement dealer.
   (H)   Greenhouses. Garden and landscape sales and services, including
produce sales.
   (I)   Kennel. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The use shall not be located within 500 feet of any RR, R-l, R-2,
R-3, R-4, or R-5 district.
      (2)   Any outdoor exercise area shall be screened from view from abutting
property with a landscaping buffer strip having a minimum width of 8 feet and
consisting of coniferous and deciduous trees.
      (3)   State licensing: The conditional use permit be issued contingent
upon receipt of the initial inspection report and approval of licensing from
the MN Board of Animal Health.
      (4)   City licensing: The conditional use permit be issued contingent
upon the applicant’s application to and receipt of a City of Jordan kennel
license.
      (5)   Noise control: If noise levels exceed acceptable city levels or the
city receives validated complaints relating to noise at the facility, the
applicant, at the city’s written direction shall install fencing or other city
approved screening on the site.
      (6)   Odors: Odor control shall consist of a ventilation system designed
so that no odors or organisms will spread between ward or to the outside air.
Odor control shall meet the MN Department of Animal Health licensing
requirements.
      (7)   Outside runs: No outside pens or outside runs shall be permitted,
without prior approval by the City Council and MN Department of Animal Health.
If/when approved in the future, any outdoor exercise area shall be screened
from view from abutting property with a landscaping buffer strip having a
minimum width of 8 feet and consisting of coniferous and deciduous trees; as
required by the Zoning Ordinance.
      (8)   Number of animals: The maximum number of domestic animals, or the
capacity of animals to be boarded or kenneled at 1 time, shall be determined by
the MN Department of Animal Health, and approved by the City Council. The
Council may restrict the number to less than the capacity, depending on the
site and potential impact on neighboring properties.
      (9)   Waste materials: All indoor waste materials shall be cleaned and
removed on a daily basis. The issuance of the conditional use permit shall be
conditioned upon receipt of a written agreement either through another vet
clinic or kennel or directly with a cremation service for the pickup of
disposed animals. If it is contracted direct, that a cabinet freezer be on-site
for the period between pick-ups.
      (10)   Leash requirements: All animals shall remain on a leash when
outdoors.
      (11)   Dangerous dogs: Dangerous dogs or potentially dangerous dogs, as
defined by M.S. § 347.50, shall be allowed to be kenneled or cared for on the
premises for a maximum 10 days, if they are required to be isolated for a
biting incident, per state statutes.
      (12)   Building Code: The applicant shall meet all required Building Code
prior to the filing of the conditional use permit with the Scott County
Recorder’s office.
      (13)   Safety issues: If issues with security arise, the owner would upon
notification of the city, install a fence around the perimeter of the
operation.
      (14)   Other requirements: The animal holding kennel shall comply with
other applicable sections of the City Code, including but not limited to Ch.
117 Animal Businesses.
   (J)   Lumber yard or construction material sales.
   (K)   Manufacturing and processing.
   (L)   Multiple principal buildings on 1 lot, as a part of an approved
planned unit development.
   (M)   Outdoor seating area for food, on sale liquor establishments and
restaurants, Class I, II, and III. Subject to the following:
      (1)   Meets the standards set forth in § 154.047 Conditional Use Permit.
      (2)   The seating area shall be located on private property, shall be
subject to the same setbacks as the principal building and outside of any
recorded easement areas and demonstrated on a site plan.
      (3)   The seating area shall also be considered as part of the impervious
calculation for the site.
      (4)   The seating shall consist of good quality patio or café type
furniture that enhances the appearance of the business.
      (5)   No beverages or food shall be served to persons outside of the
designated outdoor seating area.
      (6)   The seating area shall have a permanent surface of concrete,
asphalt, wood or other fabricated construction material.
      (7)   The seating shall be located so as not to compromise safety.
Seating shall not obstruct the entrance or any required exits or be located on
landscaping or parking areas. If seating is located on private sidewalks or
walkways, it shall be located so as to leave a minimum of a 4 foot wide
passageway for pedestrians and must meet applicable building and fire codes.
      (8)   No additional parking is required for 16 outdoor seats or less. Any
additional seating over 16 seats shall require 1 parking space per each 3
additional seats over 16 seats.
      (9)   The outdoor seating area shall be accessory to the principal use
and shall not exceed 30% of the square footage of the principal use building
space.
      (10)   Exterior sound producing equipment shall not be allowed.
      (11)   Lighting shall be permitted to the extent that it only illuminates
the designated area. Lighting shall be directed perpendicular to the ground or
directly on a building so that no direct rays are visible from off the
property.
      (12)   The business owner or designated person shall regularly inspect
the premises, all adjacent streets, sidewalks, alleys, parking areas and
sidewalks within 75 feet and remove all litter. Appropriate receptacles for
rubbish, garbage, cigarette paraphernalia, etc. must be provided in close
proximity to the outdoor seating area.
      (13)   Additional conditions may be imposed by the city and listed on the
approved conditional use permit including but not limited to hours of outdoor
seating area use, elevation of outdoor seating platform, and additional
screening or buffering to residential zoned or used areas.
   (N)   For establishments with liquor licenses the following regulations
apply in addition to those listed above:
      (1)   The seating shall be located in a compact and contiguous location
to the principal structure. No alcoholic beverages shall be served or consumed
in an outdoor seating area unless the liquor license approved by the city
specifies the compact and contiguous location.
      (2)   The outdoor seating area shall be defined with the use of
landscaping and permanent attractive fencing with at least 50% capacity that
contains the tables and chairs for the use as demonstrated on a site plan. It
shall also prevent the passage of any person or substance from the area.
      (3)   No alcoholic beverages shall be served to persons outside of the
designated outdoor seating area or those not seated at tables. Signage shall be
posted that prohibits consumption of alcohol outside of the designated outdoor
seating area as approved by the conditional use permit.
      (4)   Bars are prohibited in outdoor seating areas (with exception of a
service bar for the exclusive use of the establishment’s employees).
      (5)   Patrons shall only access the outdoor seating area through the main
building entrance.
      (6)   No other ingress or egress to the outdoor area shall be allowed
other than required emergency exits.
   (O)   Public and private colleges/universities and technical schools
licensed by the State of Minnesota. Subject to the following:
      (1)   Shall be located adjacent to an arterial or collector street as
identified in the comprehensive plan, or otherwise located so that access can
be provided without conducting significant traffic on local residential
streets.
      (2)   Shall have all buildings set back 50 feet from all property lines.
      (3)   Shall meet off-street parking requirements of the City Code.
      (4)   Shall have drop-off and pick-up areas located outside of the public
right-of-way, and designed to enhance vehicular and pedestrian safety.
      (5)   Shall have recreational areas designed for group sports activities
set back 25 feet from residential property, with adequate screening to protect
neighboring properties from noise and adverse visual impacts.
      (6)   Shall comply with applicable City Code design and performance
standards.
      (7)   Shall not have any lighted playing fields unless the visual impact
on residential areas can be substantially mitigated.
   (P)   Recreational commercial facility, including miniature golf facilities.
Subject to the following:
      (1)   The site shall contain at least 4 acres.
      (2)   All access must be from a collector, minor arterial, or a frontage
road.
      (3)   At least 15% of the site shall be landscaped.
      (4)   Outdoor lighting shall be on decorative poles and shall be not
higher than 30 feet. All rays shall be directed perpendicular to the ground.
      (5)   Decorative fencing shall be utilized to contain the area and said
fencing shall not be higher than 5 feet.
   (Q)   Transit station or park-and-ride. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The proposed development does not have any detrimental effect upon
the general health, welfare, safety and convenience of persons residing or
working in the neighborhood and is not detrimental or injurious to the
neighborhood.
      (2)   The proposed development promotes a desirable relationship of
structures to 1 another open spaces and topography both on the site and in
surrounding neighborhoods. The height, area, setbacks and overall mass as well
as parts of any structure buildings walls, signs, lighting and landscaping are
appropriate to the development the neighborhood and the community.
      (3)   The proposed development considers and fully addresses traffic
impacts, ingress, egress, internal traffic circulation, off-street parking
facilities, loading and service areas. Pedestrian ways are so designated as to
promote safety and convenience.
      (4)   All other requirements for a conditional use permit are met.
   (R)   Veterinarian clinic or animal hospital. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The use shall be located in a separate building unless a complete
party wall is utilized with a totally separate heating, ventilation, and air
conditioning system and where abutting uses are not a restaurant or food use.
      (2)   Outdoor lighting shall be on decorative poles and shall be not
higher than 30 feet. All rays shall be directed perpendicular to the ground.
      (3)   Applicable conditions listed under “Kennels” of this section be
met.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-07, passed 12-7-2020; Am. Ord.
2023-01, passed 2-13-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-05, passed 9-23-2024)
§ 154.154 INTERIM USES.
   (A)   Temporary structure to operate as business. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The temporary structure meets Building Code and obtains the
required building permits.
      (2)   The temporary structure meets the current zoning requirements.
      (3)   Customers are separated from the construction of the permanent
facility.
      (4)   The temporary structure provides for water and sewer.
      (5)   A letter of credit is provided for the removal of temporary
improvements.
      (6)   The site accommodates the storm water drainage.
      (7)   The parking lot is an impervious surface.
   (B)   Temporary outdoor seasonal sales and stands shall be allowed without a
public hearing, provided an administrative permit. Subject to the following:
      (1)   All temporary/seasonal outdoor sales shall be allowed only through
the issuance of an administrative permit.
      (2)   Duration: Administrative permits for temporary/seasonal outdoor
sales shall be for a period not to exceed 90 days.
      (3)   Performance standards:
         (a)   Off-street parking and loading shall be provided as required by
the off-street parking requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   The use of a public address system shall not be allowed.
         (c)   The site upon which the temporary/seasonal outdoor sale is to be
conducted shall be kept in a neat and orderly fashion, free from litter,
refuse, debris, junk, or other waste which results in offensive odors or
unsightly conditions.
         (d)   Display of items shall be arranged in as compact a manner as
reasonably practicable with particular reference to vehicle and pedestrian
safety and convenience, traffic flow and control, and access in case of fire or
other catastrophe.
         (e)   No uses or displays shall be permitted in required parking
areas, required green areas, parking setback areas, or any right-of-way or
other public property.
         (f)   Tents, stands, and other similar temporary structures may be
utilized subject to the following requirements:
            1.   A site plan shall be submitted which clearly identifies the
location of the temporary structure.
            2.   The Zoning Administrator determine that the size and location
of such structure shall not impair the parking capacity, emergency access, or
the safe and efficient movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic on or off
the site.
            3.   If the temporary structure is greater than 120 square feet in
size and/or includes electrical service, the Zoning Administrator may defer
matter to the City Building Official for review and approval.
         (g)   Signs. All signage shall comply with §§
154.241 through
154.260 Signs.
         (h)   Lighting. All lighting shall comply with the lighting standards
of this chapter.
         (i)   The sale and associated parking shall not obstruct parking
spaces needed by any permanent business established on the site except when a
sale is held when the business is closed.
         (j)   No portion of the use or event shall take place within 100 feet
of any residential buildings.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.155 ACCESSORY USES.
   The following uses are permitted accessory uses as such uses are defined and
in accordance with the required lot provisions and design standards. However,
any incidental repair or processing necessary to conduct a permitted principal
use shall not occupy more than 30% of the floor area.
   (A)   Electronic amusement devices (machines), where the principal use is a
Class I, Class II, or Class III restaurant, dry goods, drug, variety, hobby, or
toy store, grocery store, gas station, bar, or laundromat. Up to 4 such devices
are permitted. However, if the area of the principal use is at least 15,000
square feet, up to 30 such devices are permitted.
   (B)   Lots of record.
      (1)   For purposes of this section only, the term SMALL LOTS shall mean
those lots of record platted before August 2010 which are expected to be zoned
highway commercial under the city’s 2008 Comprehensive Guide Plan, and are less
than 20,000 square feet in area and less than 150 feet wide.
      (2)   Small lots shall be considered conforming lots under this section
and may not be subdivided.
      (3)   Existing principal and accessory buildings located on a small lot
shall be considered conforming buildings or structures. Any maintenance or
expansion of principal buildings located on small lots must be reviewed through
the site plan process in order to obtain a building permit. No expansion to a
principal building on a small lot will be permitted if the expansion (1)
reduces the current front yard setback, or (2) is proposed to be located within
15 feet of a structure located upon an adjacent lot. New accessory buildings on
small lots must comply with the setbacks of this section. Accessory buildings
existing at the time of adoption of this revised section may not be expanded.
      (4)   The City Council may provide for other exemptions from this section
which are necessary to accommodate the commercial use of small lots and
existing buildings thereon. The Council shall make written findings supporting
its determination.
   (C)   Off-street parking and loading.
   (D)   Retail sales of edible cannabinoid products, where the principal use
is a business that holds one or more of the following licenses: 3.2% malt
liquor on-sale license, 3,2 % malt liquor off-sale license, off-sale
intoxicating liquor license, on-sale intoxicating liquor license, combination
on-sale/off-sale intoxicating liquor license, on-sale wine license, brewer
taproom on-sale license, or small brewer off-sale license, as defined under §
111.22. Edible cannabinoid products shall not occupy more than 10% of the
publicly accessible floor area.
   (E)   Signs.
   (F)   Solar collectors.
   (G)   Temporary outdoor storage or display of goods used in conjunction with
and on the same site as the permitted use, provided that the goods are not
outdoors overnight; the storage or display area does not exceed 200 square
feet; and the storage or display is not within the required front yard, or when
a side yard abuts a street in the side yard, setback area.
   (H)   Tobacco sales, where the principal use is an automobile service
station, a grocery store, an on-sale liquor establishment, and an off-sale
liquor establishment. Tobacco sales shall not occupy more than 10% of the floor
area.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am .Ord. 2017-04, passed 12-18-2017; Am. Ord.
2023-01, passed 2-13-2023; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 154.156 LOT REQUIREMENTS (SEE TABLE C, COMMERCIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS TABLE).
   Minimum lot size, yards and setbacks. Front yard: In the front yard, a
build-to line is established which provides a minimum and maximum setback for
principal buildings as follows:
   (A)   Corner lots: minimum 20 feet and maximum 85 feet from property lines.
The setbacks apply to both frontages.
   (B)   Interior lots: minimum 20 feet and maximum 150 feet from front
property line.
   (C)   The build-to-line setbacks for corner and interior lots may be varied
for commercial planned unit developments or mixed use planned unit developments
provided development sites are designed around the perimeter of the planned
unit development for uses that will conform to the build-to-line setbacks. The
overall development plan shall conform to this subdivision and planned unit
development requirements in §§
154.191 through
154.199.
   (D)   On interior lots, the minimum front yard setback to parking or driving
lanes shall conform to the off-street parking regulations for the highway
commercial district. Where the average depth of front yard parking lots and/or
drive lanes adjacent to the lot in question is less than the required minimum
front setback depth, the required front yard setback shall not be less than the
average depth of such existing front yards; however, the depth of a front yard
shall not be less than 10 feet.
   (E)   If a public sidewalk or trail is located in the abutting public right-
of-way or easement, a pedestrian walkway shall be provided and designed through
the parking lot to the main entrance of the building. There is no maximum
parking setback.
      Minimum Setback 20 feet                  Maximum Setback 150 feet
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.157 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The design and performance standards are established to encourage a high
standard of development by providing assurance that land uses will be
compatible. The performance standards are designed to prevent and eliminate
those conditions which depreciate property values that cause blight or are
detrimental to the environment. Before any building permit is approved, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the proposed use will conform to
the design and performance standards. The applicant or owner shall supply data
necessary to demonstrate such conformance.
   (A)   Service streets. To the extent possible, a service street shall be
located between the arterial street and the business establishment. The service
street shall provide access to the arterial street subject to service-street
standards required by the city. Service street traffic shall not be routed on,
or directed to, local residential streets. Service streets shall meet the
following standards:
      (1)   Service streets or frontage roads shall be designed in accordance
with design standards outlined in §
153.11(B) of the Subdivisions Ordinance.
      (2)   Access from service streets to principal arterials shall be no more
frequent that 1 for each 500 feet of principal arterial frontage.
      (3)   Service streets shall be dedicated to the city.
   (B)   Business inside. All business, service, storage, merchandise, display
and repair and processing, where permitted, shall be conducted wholly within an
enclosed structure except for off-street vehicular parking and off-street
loading or where approved by conditional use permit.
   (C)   Storage. Open storage in conjunction with a permitted business shall
be prohibited.
   (D)   Sale of goods. Goods produced on the premises shall be sold only on
the premises and the processes and equipment employed in production shall not
produce any offensive odor, dust, smoke, ash, gas, noise, vibration or refuse.
   (E)   Site layout. A sketch plan showing the proposed lot(s), proposed
streets, sidewalks and trails and their connectivity to existing and proposed
pedestrian systems, the use, density, and relationship to the surrounding land,
generalized natural features including topography, significant trees and woods,
water bodies and wetlands, shall be provided. The site layout must be
compatible with and not detrimental to other surrounding property in the
general area and make adequate provision for:
      (1)   The needs of pedestrians, automobiles and bicycles, including
proper circulation and parking, and connections of trails and sidewalks to the
Municipal Sidewalk and Trail System or planned system;
      (2)   Use of the existing topography and site vegetation in the location
and orientation of structures and other facilities;
      (3)   Traffic conditions;
      (4)   Transitional features and decorative walls or live hedges for
separation and screening purposes;
      (5)   Views to and from the site;
      (6)   Storage of trash in the principal building or in an accessory
building of architecture and materials identical to the principal building;
      (7)   Planted parking islands to control parking and traffic circulation
where appropriate and landscape breaks in areas intended for the parking of
approximately 20 cars in a row;
      (8)   Proper drainage of a site;
      (9)   Location of curb cuts so that no cuts exist closer to an
intersection than 30 feet from the point of intersection of the setback lines
adjacent to intersecting streets; and
      (10)   Relating the use of the site to existing and proposed uses of
other abutting properties.
   (F)   Landscaping.
      (1)   At least 5% of the site shall have diversified landscaping in
addition to the landscaping required in setback areas, or around the perimeter
of the property or along street frontages.
      (2)   All landscaped areas are to be developed with live deciduous and
coniferous plants, trees and shrubs which provide a variety of color, textures,
heights, and forms consistent with the needs of the site, size of structure,
and other elements of the plan.
      (3)   All trees are to be at least 2½ inches in diameter 1 foot off the
ground at the time of planting. The landscaped areas may contain some stone,
wood, patio blocks, sculpture, and other appropriate ornamental features.
Existing "significant trees" as defined in City Code
Chapter 153 Subdivisions shall be preserved.
      (4)   All landscaped areas shall be kept free of weeds and debris and
shall be maintained in a healthy and growing condition and shall receive
regular pruning, fertilizing, mowing and trimming.
      (5)   Maintenance of any landscaping between the curb of any street
abutting the parcel and the property line shall be the responsibility of the
owner of that parcel, unless a recognized association or district has assumed
responsibility for maintenance.
      (6)   Design flexibility. Alternatives to the requirements listed above
may be approved by the City Council, upon recommendation of the Planning
Commission for exiting lots of record prior to August 2010, where due to lot
size and/or configuration it is determined it is not feasible to landscape 5%
of the lot area and reasonably accommodate a facility and off-street parking.
   (G)   Parking area landscape and screening requirements.
      (1)   The purpose of parking lot landscaping is as follows:
         (a)   To provide shade throughout a parking area to reduce the amount
of heat absorbed by the pavement;
         (b)   To screen cars from surrounding streets and properties;
         (c)   To avoid the negative aesthetic impacts of large expanses of
parking areas;
         (d)   To orient planters and other landscape features to direct
pedestrians to building entrances; and
         (e)   To encourage creative design of parking areas.
      (2)   Minimum landscape requirements. Trees or planter boxes shall be
located in the parking areas with 20 or more parking spaces, to meet the
minimum landscape requirements outlined in §
154.156(F) Lot Requirements.
      (3)   Boundary trees. Required boundary trees which shade parking areas
may count towards the fulfillment of parking lot trees. Trees in the public
right-of-way are not included in this calculation.
      (4)   Approved parking lot landscape planter designs.
         (a)   Planters shall have minimum internal area of 25 square feet,
excluding a curb or border area; curb widths shall be consistent with the
city's standards.
         (b)   All landscape planters with trees shall have a minimum internal
dimension of 4½ feet.
         (c)   Parking area infield planters or tree wells shall be placed at
the intersection of parking stalls and be designed to reduce damage to trees
from vehicles overhanging the planter. Single trees within these planters shall
be installed at the center of the parking stall intersections.
         (d)   Row end planters shall not exceed the length of a standard
parking stall or 2 parking stalls depending on row width.
         (e)   Including curb or border, vehicles shall not overhang planters
or tree wells by more than 2 feet.
      (5)   Design flexibility. Alternatives to the requirements listed above
may be approved by the City Council, upon recommendation of the Planning
Commission when the applicant demonstrates that the minimum landscape
requirements of this section are being met.
      (6)   Screening. Open parking areas shall be screened from view from
adjacent properties and streets using fencing, walls, berms and/or evergreen
landscaping. This screening shall have an eventual height of 3½ feet.
      (7)   Pedestrian access. Parking lot landscaping shall be located so as
to discourage pedestrians from having to cross any landscaped areas to reach
building entrances from parked cars. This can be achieved through proper
orientation of the landscape planters.
   (H)   No more than 1 building. There shall be no more than 1 principal
building on 1 lot except as provided through an approved planned unit
development.
   (I)   Outdoor lighting. All outdoor lighting, which is not globe lighting,
shall be directed perpendicular to the ground or directly on a building so that
no direct rays are visible from off the property.
   (J)   Utilities. Shall be placed underground and meters shall be screened
from view from the street.
   (K)   Traffic visibility. No wall, fence, structure, tree, shrub,
vegetation, or other obstruction shall be permitted in any yard or setback
which poses a danger to traffic by obscuring the view from any street or
roadway. Visibility from any street or roadway shall be unobstructed above the
height of 2 feet to a height of 5 feet within the triangle described as
beginning at the intersection of the projected curb lines of 2 intersecting
streets, thence 30 feet along 1 curb, thence diagonally to a point 30 feet from
the point of beginning of the other curb line, thence to the point of
beginning.
   (L)   Required yards and setback areas. Required yards and setback areas,
except driveways and areas used as a garage or accessory building, shall be
graded to final elevations and sodded or seeded and landscaped with trees and
shrubs. Said grading and landscaping shall be completed within 180 days after
first occupancy of the building. Any fence, wall, or other similar work must be
completed within 180 days after construction commences. All property developed
and property for which construction has commenced or a building permit issued
prior to December 31, 1991 shall conform to this requirement on or before June
30, 1992.
   (M)   Required parking. Development and modifications to all parcels and
buildings are subject to the provisions of the off-street parking and loading
spaces.
   (N)   Required pedestrian and non-motorized vehicle access. Pedestrian
access shall be provided to the storefront from internal parking lots. A
sidewalk or trail, to be determined by the City Council, shall be provided to
connect internal walkways to the city's existing or planned municipal sidewalk
and trail system.
   (O)   Signs. Development and modification to all parcels, street uses, and
buildings are subject to §§
154.241 through
154.260 Signs.
   (P)   Architecture and materials. Development and modification to all
parcels, structures, and buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.311 through
154.316 Architectural Control and Building Materials and the Highway Commercial
Design Standards.
   (Q)   Design review permit. A design review permit is required for any/all
site alterations in the Highway Commercial District. Plans shall be consistent
with the adopted design standards for the Highway Commercial District.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-10, passed 12-5-2016)
§ 154.158 VARIANCES.
   Variances from this subchapter may be recommended to the City Council by the
Planning Commission for lots developed on or before August, 2010, where
regulations are not viable due to lot configuration, topography, etc.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.159 MINOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   In the case of lots platted prior to August 16, 2010 lots can be split 1
time as long as the minimum width is 115 feet and maintain a minimum of 20,000
square feet in size. Other sections of City Code shall also still be met. Lots
may also be required to provide shared access with proper access easements
recorded.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
To view Table C in PDF, click HERE
 
TABLE C: COMMERCIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS (See §§ 154.130 through 154.150 for complete lists).
             Minimum                    Rear                                                                                                  Maximum
             Lot     Lot   Front Yard   Yard    Side Yard Maximum Height                                                          Bulk or     Impervious
             Size    Width Setback      Setback Setback                                                                           Density     Surface
                                                                                                                                              Coverage
C-1                                             Interior  No structure or building shall exceed 3 stories or 35 ft in height,     Bulk:
Neighborhood Lot                                Lot: 8 ft whichever is less, except the following which may not exceed 53 ft in   Floor area
Commercial   Area:   60 ft 10 ft        10 ft   Corner    height: church spires, belfries, and cupolas that do not contain usable ratio shall 70%
Business     10,000                             Lot: 10   space; monuments; flag poles; chimneys; cooling towers; elevator        not exceed
District     sq ft                              ft        penthouses; and radio, television, and other communication towers.      1.2
154.130
                                                                                                                                  Density:
                                                                                                                                  Minimum lot
                                                          No structure or building shall exceed 3 stories or 35 ft in height,     area per
C-2                                                       whichever is less, except the following which may not exceed 75 ft in   dwelling
Central      Lot                                          height: church spires, belfries, and copulas that do not contain usable unit in a
Business     Area:   20 ft 0 ft         0 ft    0 ft      space; monuments; flag poles; chimneys; cooling towers; elevator        multiple-    
District     2,000                                        penthouses; and radio, television, and other communication towers. A 4- family
154.140      sq ft                                        story building or building maximum 50 ft in height, whichever is less,  development
                                                          may be approved as a conditional use pursuant to §                     shall not
                                                          154.143.                                                                be less
                                                                                                                                  than 2,000
                                                                                                                                  sq ft
                                                Interior
                                                Lot: 15
                                                ft or     No structure or building shall exceed 3 stories or 35 ft in height,     Bulk:
C-3                                             half the  whichever is less, except the following which may not exceed 53 ft in   Floor area
Highway      Lot           See §               building  height: church spires, belfries, and cupolas that do not contain usable ratio and
Commercial   Area:   150   154.156 Lot  20 ft   height,   space; monuments; flag poles; chimneys; cooling towers; elevator        the ground  70%
District     20,000  ft    Requirements         whichever penthouses; and radio, television, and other communication towers.      floor area
154.150      sq ft                              is        Structures higher than 35 ft may be approved with a conditional use     ratio shall
                                                greater   permit                                                                  not exceed
                                                Corner                                                                            0.7
                                                Lot: 20
                                                ft
 
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2015-06, passed 5-4-2015; Am. Ord.
2018-01, passed --2018; Am. Ord. 2018-05, passed 3-5-2018; Am. Ord. 2021-07,
passed 5-17-2021)
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-1)
§ 154.161 PURPOSE.
   This district is established to preserve areas in close proximity to major
thoroughfares for a broad range of light industrial uses and guide its
development in a way that maintains a positive visual image by buffering
adjacent uses from the negative impacts typically associated with industrial
development.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.162 PERMITTED USES.
   Within any (I-1) Light Industrial District, no structure or land shall be
used except for 1 or more of the following uses and as such uses are defined in
accordance with the design and performance standards.
   (A)   Automotive repair and service.
   (B)   Manufacturing or assembly of a wide variety of products or other
similar light industries.
   (C)   Mini-storage facilities.
   (D)   Offices, business or professional.
   (E)   Parcel delivery.
   (F)   Professional construction trades such as electricians, plumbers,
mechanical, HVAC; excluding contractor yards.
   (G)   Public park or playground and open space.
   (H)   Public utilities and associated buildings.
   (I)   Single- and mixed-use developments which comply with planned unit
development requirements.
   (J)   Warehousing, and wholesaling conducted entirely within an enclosed
building.
   (K)   Cannabis sales, wholesale, subject to the following:
      (1)   No sale of cannabis for consumption on the licensed premises may be
made between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. any day of the week.
      (2)   The business must be licensed by the State of Minnesota and in
compliance with the standards set by Minnesota Statutes, Minnesota Rules, and
the Office of Cannabis Management.
   (L)   Cannabis transporter, subject to the following: The business must be
licensed by the State of Minnesota and in compliance with the standards set by
Minnesota Statutes, Minnesota Rules, and the Office of Cannabis Management.
   (M)   Cannabis manufacturing facility, subject to the following:
      (1)   The use must be setback 1,000 feet from schools as defined by M.S.
§ 342.13.
      (2)   The use must be setback 500 feet from an attraction within a public
park as established by M.S. § 342.13.
      (3)   Outdoor operations are prohibited.
      (4)   The facility shall not produce noxious or nuisance causing odors,
subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The facility shall be ventilated so that all odors cannot be
detected by a person with a normal sense of smell at the exterior of the
facility or at any adjoining use or property.
         (b)   Growing cannabis must comply with all applicable laws and shall
not produce noxious or dangerous gases or odors or otherwise create a danger to
any person or entity in or near the facilities.
         (c)   An odor maintenance plan must be submitted to the city and
approved by the city.
      (5)   All mechanical, odor suppression equipment, and trash enclosures
must be screened.
      (6)   Outdoor storage of containers, pallets, waste/recycle containers,
etc. is prohibited.
      (7)   All structures shall be screened from abutting residential uses
with a wall, solid fencing, evergreen hedge, or equivalent material. All
screening shall be 6 feet in height.
      (8)   Lighting within a greenhouse is permitted between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Lighting at the site property lines shall not exceed 1.0
foot-candles at any time.
      (9)   The business must be licensed by the State of Minnesota and in
compliance with the standards set by Minnesota Statutes, Minnesota Rules, and
the Office of Cannabis Management.
   (N)   Cannabis testing facility, subject to the following:
      (1)   The use must be setback 1,000 feet from schools as defined by M.S.
§ 342.13.
      (2)   The use must be setback 500 feet from an attraction within a public
park as established by M.S. § 342.13.
      (3)   Outdoor operations are prohibited.
      (4)   The facility shall not produce noxious or nuisance causing odors,
subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The facility shall be ventilated so that all odors cannot be
detected by a person with a normal sense of smell at the exterior of the
facility or at any adjoining use or property.
         (b)   Growing cannabis must comply with all applicable laws and shall
not produce noxious or dangerous gases or odors or otherwise create a danger to
any person or entity in or near the facilities.
         (c)   An odor maintenance plan must be submitted to the city and
approved by the city.
      (5)   All mechanical, odor suppression equipment, and trash enclosures
must be screened.
      (6)   Outdoor storage of containers, pallets, waste/recycle containers,
etc. is prohibited.
      (7)   All structures shall be screened from abutting residential uses
with a wall, solid fencing, evergreen hedge, or equivalent material. All
screening shall be 6 feet in height.
      (8)   Lighting within a greenhouse is permitted between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Lighting at the site property lines shall not exceed 1.0
foot-candles at any time.
      (9)   The business must be licensed by the State of Minnesota and in
compliance with the standards set by Minnesota Statutes, Minnesota Rules, and
the Office of Cannabis Management.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2024-09, passed - -)
§ 154.163 CONDITIONAL USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except by conditional use permit for any
of the following uses as such are defined and in accordance with the required
lot provisions, design and performance standards, and conditions set by the
Council. The requirements of §
154.047 Conditional Use Permits shall be met in addition to the following
conditions:
   (A)   Adult uses, subject to City Code
Ch. 122 Sexually Oriented Businesses.
   (B)   Bus terminal.
   (C)   Communication transmission tower and power lines. Subject to the
following:
      (1)   All power transmission lines of 35,000 volts or less shall be
placed underground. Lines carrying more than 35,000 volts shall be reviewed to
determine the appropriate method of placement.
      (2)   Above ground lines and overhead towers shall have an easement with
a minimum width of 100 feet.
      (3)   Lines in excess of 35,000 volts and relay towers shall not be
located closer than 250 feet from an existing or proposed residential
structure, church, school, or public assembly area.
      (4)   Transmission towers, if permitted, must be on single (monopole)
decorative poles painted a neutral color to minimize visibility off-site to the
greatest extent possible.
      (5)   The tower shall meet minimum setback requirements in the I-
1 district. If the height of the tower is greater than the setback from the
property line, the tower shall be designed and engineered to collapse within
the distance between the tower and the property line, with supporting
documentation provided by a licensed engineer.
      (6)   The tower shall not exceed 175 feet in total height (including the
extension of any antenna).
      (7)   Lights and/or flashing equipment shall not be permitted unless
required by state or federal agencies.
      (8)   Towers shall be protected with a corrosive resistant finish.
      (9)   Signage shall not be allowed on the tower, other than danger or
warning signs.
      (10)   The applicant shall submit proof, from a professional licensed
engineer, that the proposed tower cannot be co-located on an existing tower
within ½ mile radius due to:
         (a)   Structural capacity of existing towers with the inability to
reinforce, modify or replace the existing structure at a reasonable cost;
         (b)   Interference that may be caused by placing it on an existing
tower;
         (c)   The height of existing towers are insufficient to function
reasonably; or
         (d)   The applicant is unable to lease space on an existing or
approved tower or building, following a good faith effort to do so.
      (11)   Proof, from a licensed engineer shall be provided that the planned
tower will not interfere with existing communications for public safety
purposes.
      (12)   The tower shall be constructed to accommodate antennas being
placed at varying heights on the tower.
      (13)   Existing vegetation on the site shall be preserved to the maximum
extent possible.
      (14)   The tower shall be surrounded by the security fence 6 feet in
height with a lockable gate.
      (15)   All applicable provisions of the City Code and State Building
Code, herein adopted, shall be complied with.
      (16)   Equipment and buildings shall be screened from view by suitable
landscaping, except where a design of non-vegetative screening better reflects
and complements the architectural character of the surrounding neighborhood.
      (17)   All obsolete or unused towers and accompanying accessory
facilities shall be removed within 12 months of the cessation of operations at
the site unless a time extension is approved by the city. After the facilities
are removed, the site shall be restored to its original or an improved state.
The user of the tower and/or accompanying accessory facilities shall be
responsible for the removal of facilities and the restoration of the site.
      (18)   The applicant shall submit a plan illustrating anticipated sites
for future locations of communication towers and/or communication devices/
apparatus.
      (19)   Wireless telecommunication towers and antennas will only be
considered in city parks, within the I-1 District, if the park is of sufficient
size and character, the tower location is not near playgrounds and the Park and
Recreation Commission has recommended approval to the Planning Commission and
City Council.
   (D)   Business trade school and/or technical school.
   (E)   Day care facility.
   (F)   Garden supply store/greenhouse.
   (G)   Wind generators.
   (H)   Outdoor storage. Provided the area be no greater than 10% of the size
of the building footprint and outdoor storage regulations identified in §
154.167(B) are met.
   (I)   Research laboratories, investigation, testing or experimentation
conducted entirely within an enclosed building
   (J)   Public sewage disposal plant. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The site must contain at least 5 acres.
      (2)   At least 15% of the site must be landscaped.
      (3)   The site shall not be located within 1,000 feet of any RR, R-l, R-
2, R-3, R-4, or R-5 district unless a landscape buffer area measuring at least
50 feet wide is provided consisting of densely planted coniferous and deciduous
trees in which case the site may be located within 500 feet of said districts.
   (K)   Planned unit developments.
   (L)   Automobile repair - major, subject to the following:
      (1)   All repair, assembly, disassembly, and maintenance of vehicles
shall occur inside a structure except light duty work such as battery
installation, tire inflation, and changing wipers.
      (2)   All vehicle parts and equipment shall be stored within a permanent
structure.
      (3)   All vehicles shall be stored on a hard surface such as concrete,
bituminous, or other hard surface as approved specifically by the conditional
use permit.
      (4)   The property shall be screened from abutting residential uses with
a wall, solid fencing, evergreen hedge, or equivalent material as established
by the conditional use permit. All screening shall be 6 feet in height.
      (5)   Hours of operation shall be limited to 6:30 a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
unless otherwise approved specifically by the conditional use permit.
      (6)   Further conditions may be imposed by the City Council, in addition
to the requirements set forth above, as necessary or appropriate with each
individual conditional use permit application request.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2025 01, passed 2-24-2025)
§ 154.164 INTERIM USES.
   Within the I-1, Light Industrial District, the following uses may be allowed
provided the requirements of §§
154.041 through
154.052 are followed:
   (A)   Mining. Subject to the following:
      (1)   A plan shall be submitted showing the route the trucks will use in
traveling to and from the site.
      (2)   Access to the property is subject to city approval and shall be
located where it is likely to cause the least disruption to existing use of
property in the area.
      (3)   The persons responsible for mining and future land reclamation must
remove debris, dust, dirt or sand from the street at appropriate intervals
consistent with the city requirements.
      (4)   A plan for reclamation showing finished grade and cover materials
shall be submitted along with a staging plan so that no one area is left
exposed for longer than 90 days. Materials used to reclaim land shall be
consistent with the conditions in the natural environment on the property and
with the future land use.
      (5)   Mining shall not be allowed unless the city finds the plan for
reclamation of the land is suitable.
      (6)   A bond or letter of credit may be required by the city to ensure
that any damage caused to street or public property is corrected by the owner.
      (7)   Applicants shall comply with other sections of the City Code, as
applicable.
   (B)   Land reclamation. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The access to the property is subject to approval and shall be
located where it is likely to cause the least disruption to existing use of
property in the area.
      (2)   Materials used to reclaim land shall be consistent with the
conditions in the natural environment on the property and with the future land
use.
      (3)   Persons responsible for land reclamation shall remove debris, dust,
dirt, or sand from the street at appropriate intervals consistent with city
requirements.
      (4)   A bond or letter of credit may be required by the city to ensure
that any damage caused to street or public property is corrected by the
applicant.
      (5)   Applicants shall comply with other sections of the City Code, as
applicable.
   (C)   Proof of parking.  Subject to the review and processing of an interim
use permit as regulated by this section, the Planning Commission may reduce the
number of required off-street parking spaces when the applicant can demonstrate
in documented form a need which is less than required. In such situations, the
city shall require a site plan illustrating "Proof of Parking" availability.
The plan shall illustrate where the additional parking will be located and how
the traffic circulation will coordinate with the site plan and existing parking
lot should use or needs change. The Planning Commission shall also consider:
      (1)   The on street parking available by the site.
      (2)   The expected usage of the site and parking demand.
      (3)   Surrounding land uses and zoning districts.
      (4)   The provisions of this section affecting the parking lot or loading
area.
      (5)   Any other associated aspect that the Planning Commission deems
necessary to evaluate the request.
      (6)   The applicant shall install the additional required off-street
parking within 3 months of written notification by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Physical recreational and educational training facilities.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-09, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.165 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Within any industrial district, the following uses are permitted accessory
uses as such are defined and in accordance with the required lot provisions and
design and performance standards, provided applicable City Code provisions are
met.
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading areas and parking ramps.
   (B)   Fences and walls in accordance with §
154.167(J).
   (C)   Signs.
   (D)   Temporary buildings located on the premises for construction purposes
for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such construction.
   (E)   Solar collection devices.
   (F)   A security/caretaker office to a mini-storage warehouse.
   (G)   Commercial sales of products directly manufactured or assembled as a
part of the principal use, provided that no more than 20% of the gross floor
area is used for this purpose.
   (H)   Communication structures. Satellite dishes, antennas and similar
devices provided they are not located in the required front yard or within 15
feet of the side lot line or rear lot line.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.166 LOT REQUIREMENTS (SEE TABLE D, INDUSTRIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS TABLE).
   (A)   One principal building. There shall be no more than 1 principal
building on 1 lot except as provided through a planned unit development.
   (B)   Yard. No yard or other open space shall be reduced in area so as to
make such yard or other open space less than the minimum required by this
section; and if the existing yard or other open space as existing is less than
the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced. No required yard or open
space of any structure shall be included as a part of any yard or open space
required for another structure.
   (C)   Lots of record.
      (1)   For purposes of this section only, the term "small lots" shall mean
those lots of record platted before April, 2011 which are expected to be zoned
industrial under the city's 2008 Comprehensive Guide Plan and are less than
43,560 square feet in area and less than 150 feet wide.
      (2)   Small lots shall be considered conforming lots under this section
and may not be subdivided.
      (3)   Existing principal and accessory buildings located on a small lot
shall be considered conforming buildings or structures. Any maintenance or
expansion of principal buildings located on small lots must be reviewed through
the site plan process in order to obtain a building permit. No expansion to a
principal building on a small lot will be permitted if the expansion (1)
reduces the current front yard setback, or (2) is proposed to be located within
15 feet of a structure located upon an adjacent lot. New accessory buildings on
small lots must comply with the setbacks of this section. Accessory buildings
existing at the time of adoption of this revised section may not be expanded,
unless in compliance with setbacks.
      (4)   The City Council may provide for other exemptions from this section
which are necessary to accommodate the industrial use of small lots and
existing buildings thereon. The Council shall make written findings supporting
its determination.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.167 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The design and performance standards are established to encourage a high
standard of development by providing assurance that land uses will be
compatible. The performance standards are designed to prevent and eliminate
those conditions which depreciate property values that cause blight or are
detrimental to the environment. Before any building permit is approved, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the proposed use will conform to
the design and performance standards. The applicant or owner shall supply data
necessary to demonstrate such conformance.
   (A)   Noise. It is unlawful to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued, any noise in excess of the noise levels set forth in Minnesota Rules
7030.0040, which includes standards for activities by the noise area
classification (NAC) system, established in part by Minnesota Rules 7030.0050,
unless such noise be reasonably necessary to the preservation of life, health,
safety or property.
   (B)   Outdoor storage.
      (1)   All materials and equipment shall be stored within a building,
unless outdoor storage is approved through the issuance of a conditional use
permit. This excludes materials, trailers or equipment in use in construction
or landscaping on the premises, and except for off-street parking and loading
areas.
      (2)   Trailers. Use of any trailers for storage, or of containerized
storage devices, shall be allowed by conditional use permit only, subject to
annual review.
         (a)   Such trailers or containers shall not be allowed unless
completely screened, or maintained on the exterior.
         (b)   All such trailers or containers shall be located to the rear of
the principal structure, and shall be parked in good order so as to minimize
their visibility from the street.
         (c)   All such trailers or containers must be moveable on premises,
may not contain fuels, volatile chemicals, or other flammable materials, and
shall be subject to inspection by state and local fire department officials. No
such trailers or containers may be stacked.
         (d)   Earthen or other permanent fixed ramps may not be used with
trailers or containers used for storage. The wheels on such trailers must
remain at grade, i.e., wheels may not be dug into the ground to create a ramp.
         (e)   Trailers and containers used for storage shall occupy no more
than an area equal to 7% of the manufacturing and warehousing floor area of the
permanent structures on the property, except that up to 4 such trailers and
containers may be placed on any property that has a completed principal
structure; however in no instance shall the total area of such storage exceed
the total area of the manufacturing/warehousing area of the principal
structure.
         (f)   Unlicensed vehicles designed as a contractor's job shop or
office shall not be permitted.
   (C)   Refuse and waste. All waste material, debris, refuse, or garbage shall
be kept in an enclosed building or properly contained in a closed container
designed for such purposes, with the exception of crop residue. The owner of
vacant land shall be responsible for keeping such land free of refuse. Wastes
shall be disposed of in a manner that is not dangerous to public health and
safety, nor will damage public waste transmission or disposal facilities.
   (D)   Toxic or noxious matter. Any use shall be so operated in compliance
with the Clean Air Act, as amended, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
and MN Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) regulations. All activities that emit
radioactivity shall comply with the minimum requirements of the federal
regulatory body.
   (E)   Air pollution. Any use shall be operated so as to conform to the
regulations and standards adopted by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (F)   Nuisance. Unused refrigerators or similar containers with doors which
fasten automatically when closed shall not be exposed or accessible to the
public. In addition, the regulations and standards adopted in City Code
Ch. 90 Nuisances; Health and Safety shall be employed. Any proposed use
creating periodic earthshaking vibration shall be prohibited if undue
vibrations are perceptible beyond boundaries of the property on which the use
is located. This standard shall not apply to vibrations during the process of
construction.
   (G)   Screening.
      (1)   Where any business or industry (structure, parking or storage) is
adjacent to property zoned or developed for residential or highway commercial
use, that business or industry shall provide an earth berm a minimum of 6 feet
in height and screening along the boundary of the residential and/or commercial
property. Screening shall also be provided where a business, parking lot, or
industry is located across the street from a residential zone, but not on that
side of a business or industry considered to be the front.
      (2)   All outdoor storage shall be screened. The exceptions are (1)
merchandise being displayed for sale (2) materials and equipment presently
being used for construction on the premises.
      (3)   The screening required in this section may consist of a fence,
trees, shrubs, and berms, but shall not extend within 15 feet of any street or
driveway. The screening shall be placed along property lines or in case of
screening along a street, 20 feet from the street right-of-way with landscaping
between the screening and pavement. Planting of a type approved by the Council
may also be required in addition to or in lieu of fencing.
   (H)   Landscaping and required yards/setbacks. All developed uses shall
provide a landscaped yard, including grass, decorative stones, or shrubs and
trees, along all streets. This yard shall be kept clear of all structures,
storage, and off-street parking.
      (1)   Except for driveways, the yard shall extend along the entire
frontage of the lot, and along both streets in the case of a corner lot: such
yard shall have a depth of at least 10 feet. No landscape material, other than
grass, shall be placed within drainage or utility easements. Rock or riprap may
be allowed upon review and approval by the City Council provided the proposed
material does not interfere with drainage or utilities.
      (2)   All structures and areas requiring landscaping and fences shall be
maintained so as not to be unsightly or present harmful health or safety
conditions.
      (3)   Required yards and setback areas, except driveways and areas used
as a garage or accessory building, shall be graded to final elevations and
sodded or seeded and landscaped with trees and shrubs. Said grading and
landscaping shall be completed within 180 days after first occupancy of the
building. Any fence, wall or other similar work must be completed within 180
days after construction commences. All property developed and property for
which construction has commenced or a building permit issued prior to December
31, 1991 shall conform to this requirement on or before June 30, 1992.
      (4)   Tree and woodland preservation shall be accomplished in accordance
with the tree and woodland preservation provisions of §
153.11(M) and City Code
Ch. 153 Subdivisions.
      (5)   Perimeter trees. Industrial sites shall contain, at a minimum, 1
tree required per 40 feet of the site perimeter.
      (6)   Entry plantings: Each "entry and focal area of a development shall
be treated with landscape development (trees, shrubs, etc.). No numerical
requirement of plants is provided, but the landscape plan shall reflect the
proposed treatment. Trees required on the perimeter calculation are not
applicable to this design feature.
      (7)   Parking lot landscape: Requirements for parking lots are outlined
in §§
154.221 through
154.230.
      (8)   Miscellaneous screenings: As identified in §
154.167(G) other screening shall be provided. No numerical requirement of
plants is provided. The perimeter tree planting requirement may be used to
provide trees for this purpose, if coniferous trees are used.
   (I)   Outdoor lighting and glare. Any artificial lighting used to illuminate
an off-street parking area, sign or other structure shall be arranged so as to
deflect light away from any adjoining residential zone or from the public
streets. Direct or sky-reflected glare, whether from floodlights or from high
temperature processes such as combustion or welding, shall not be directed into
any adjoining property. The source of lights shall be hooded or controlled in
some manner so as not to light adjacent property. Bare incandescent light bulbs
shall not be permitted in view of adjacent property or public right- of-way.
Any light or combination of lights which cast light on a public street shall
not exceed 1 foot candle (meter reading) as measured from the centerline of
said street. Any light or combination of lights which cast light on residential
property shall not exceed 0.4 candles (meter reading) as measured from said
property. All outdoor lighting shall be directed perpendicular to the ground or
directly on a building so that no direct rays are visible from off the
property.
   (J)   Fence and walls.  Maintenance-free fence and walls and hedges are
permitted in the yard setback area under the following conditions:
      (1)   A fence or wall not exceeding 6 feet in height may be constructed
in any side or rear year setback area;
      (2)   A fence or wall not exceeding 3½ feet in height may be constructed
in any front yard;
      (3)   No fence, hedge or wall shall cause a visual obstruction to
traffic.
      (4)   Fences and walls are structures and require a building permit and
shall meet all Minnesota State Building Code requirements for such structures.
   (K)   Traffic visibility. No wall, fence, structure, tree, shrub, vegetation
or other obstruction shall be permitted in any yard or setback which poses a
danger to traffic by obscuring the view from any street or roadway. Visibility
from any street or roadway shall be unobstructed above the height of 2 feet to
a height of 5 feet within the triangle described as beginning at the
intersection of the projected curb lines of 2 intersecting streets, thence 30
feet along 1 curb, thence diagonally to a point 30 feet from the point of
beginning of the other curb line, thence to the point of beginning.
   (L)   Sidewalks and trails. In projects involving new construction, the
plans and improvements must include construction of a sidewalk or trail where 1
is included in the city's sidewalk or trail plan and boulevard sodding and
street trees shall be provided consistent with city requirements.
   (M)   No more than one structure. There shall be no more than 1 principal
structure on 1 lot except as provided under planned unit development
provisions.
   (N)   Utilities. Shall be placed underground and meters shall be screened
from view from the street. Buildings designed for human occupancy must have and
be connected to city water and the city sanitary sewer system.
   (O)   Fabricating must be inside. All fabrication, manufacturing,
processing, or production shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed
building.
   (P)   Erosion. Soil erosion and sedimentation control shall be used/employed
during construction and during the duration of the use of the property as
required in the Soil Erosion and Sediment Control provisions of City Code
Ch. 153 Subdivisions.
   (Q)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and unloading areas shall be
provided in accordance with the off-street parking and off-street loading
requirements. Modifications to all parcels and buildings are also subject to
the provisions of §§
154.221 through
154.230 Off-street Parking and Loading Spaces.
   (R)   Signs. Development and modification to all parcels, street uses, and
buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.241 through
154.260 Signs.
   (S)   Architecture and materials. Development and modification to all
parcels, structures, and buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.311 through
154.316 Architectural Control and Building Materials.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020)
GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (I-2)
§ 157.171 PURPOSE.
   This district is established to preserve areas in the city for
manufacturing, processing, assembly, fabrication, storage and warehousing,
distribution, and construction related services that are compatible with and
buffered from adjacent uses.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.172 PERMITTED USES.
   Within any I-2 General Industrial District, no structure or land shall be
used except for 1 or more of the following uses and as such uses are defined in
accordance with the design and performance standards. Uses allowed in the I-
2 District:
   (A)   Appliance assembly and warehousing.
   (B)   Armory.
   (C)   Automobile repair – major.
   (D)   Building materials production.
   (E)   Clothing, apparel, and canvas fabrication and manufacturing.
   (F)   Concrete products plants.
   (G)   Contractor operations and supply yards.
   (H)   Landscaping services and contractors.
   (I)   Lumber yards.
   (J)   Machine shops, provided hard wall building systems are used where
hammers or presses are a part of the process.
   (K)   Manufacturing, fabrication, processing, assembly and storage
operations, except those involving a project that fits within 1 of the
Mandatory EIS Categories under Minnesota Rules 4410.4400.
   (L)   Cannabis manufacturing.
   (M)   Meat locker.
   (N)   Offices, business or professional.
   (O)   Printing and publishing.
   (P)   Public utility buildings, garages, and structures.
   (Q)   Railroad yards and spurs, provided the site is not located within
1,000 feet of any property zoned residential.
   (R)   Research laboratories, except those involving a project that fits
within 1 of the Mandatory EIS Categories under Minnesota Rules 4410.4400.
   (S)   Truck, freight, and bus terminals.
   (T)   Utility services and structures.
   (U)   Warehousing of non-explosive material.
   (V)   Wholesaling.
   (W)   Cannabis sales, wholesale, subject to the following:
      (1)   No sale of cannabis for consumption on the licensed premises may be
made between 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. any day of the week.
      (2)   The business must be licensed by the State of Minnesota and in
compliance with the standards set by Minnesota Statutes, Minnesota Rules, and
the Office of Cannabis Management.
   (X)   Cannabis transporter, subject to the following: The business must be
licensed by the State of Minnesota and in compliance with the standards set by
Minnesota Statutes, Minnesota Rules, and the Office of Cannabis Management.
   (Y)   Cannabis manufacturing facility, subject to the following:
      (1)   The use must be setback 1,000 feet from schools as defined by M.S.
§ 342.13.
      (2)   The use must be setback 500 feet from an attraction within a public
park as established by M.S. § 342.13.
      (3)   Outdoor operations are prohibited.
      (4)   The facility shall not produce noxious or nuisance causing odors,
subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The facility shall be ventilated so that all odors cannot be
detected by a person with a normal sense of smell at the exterior of the
facility or at any adjoining use or property.
         (b)   Growing cannabis must comply with all applicable laws and shall
not produce noxious or dangerous gases or odors or otherwise create a danger to
any person or entity in or near the facilities.
         (c)   An odor maintenance plan must be submitted to the city and
approved by the city.
      (5)   All mechanical, odor suppression equipment, and trash enclosures
must be screened.
      (6)   Outdoor storage of containers, pallets, waste/recycle containers,
etc. is prohibited.
      (7)   All structures shall be screened from abutting residential uses
with a wall, solid fencing, evergreen hedge, or equivalent material. All
screening shall be 6 feet in height.
      (8)   Lighting within a greenhouse is permitted between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Lighting at the site property lines shall not exceed 1.0
foot-candles at any time.
      (9)   The business must be licensed by the State of Minnesota and in
compliance with the standards set by Minnesota Statutes, Minnesota Rules, and
the Office of Cannabis Management.
   (Z)   Cannabis testing facility, subject to the following:
      (1)   The use must be setback 1,000 feet from schools as defined by M.S.
§ 342.13.
      (2)   The use must be setback 500 feet from an attraction within a public
park as established by M.S. § 342.13.
      (3)   Outdoor operations are prohibited.
      (4)   The facility shall not produce noxious or nuisance causing odors,
subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The facility shall be ventilated so that all odors cannot be
detected by a person with a normal sense of smell at the exterior of the
facility or at any adjoining use or property.
         (b)   Growing cannabis must comply with all applicable laws and shall
not produce noxious or dangerous gases or odors or otherwise create a danger to
any person or entity in or near the facilities.
         (c)   An odor maintenance plan must be submitted to the city and
approved by the city.
      (5)   All mechanical, odor suppression equipment, and trash enclosures
must be screened.
      (6)   Outdoor storage of containers, pallets, waste/recycle containers,
etc. is prohibited.
      (7)   All structures shall be screened from abutting residential uses
with a wall, solid fencing, evergreen hedge, or equivalent material. All
screening shall be 6 feet in height.
      (8)   Lighting within a greenhouse is permitted between the hours of 6:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. Lighting at the site property lines shall not exceed 1.0
foot-candles at any time.
      (9)   The business must be licensed by the State of Minnesota and in
compliance with the standards set by Minnesota Statutes, Minnesota Rules, and
the Office of Cannabis Management.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed 8-28-2023; Am. Ord.
2024-09, passed - -)
§ 154.173 CONDITIONAL USES.
   No structure or land shall be used except by conditional use permit for any
of the following uses as such are defined and in accordance with the required
lot provisions, design and performance standards and conditions set by the
Council.
   (A)   Adult uses, subject to City Code
Ch. 122 Sexually Oriented Businesses.
   (B)   Boiler shop, brewing, or distilling facilities.
   (C)   Bulk storage of oil, gasoline, liquid fertilizer, chemicals and
similar liquids, provided:
      (1)   All uses associated with bulk storage of oil, gasoline, liquid
fertilizer, chemicals, similar liquids and hazardous substances shall comply
with the requirements of the fire code, the Minnesota Department of Agriculture
and other hazardous substance legislation by the federal government. The user
of such material shall have documents from the above offices that the use is in
compliance. All existing above ground liquid storage tanks with a capacity of
2,000 gallons or more shall comply with the requirements of the fire code
within 12 months following the enactment of this chapter.
      (2)   Bulk storage containers shall be setback a minimum 1,000 feet from
residentially zoned properties.
      (3)   Bulk storage containers shall be screened with landscape materials
and a berm from adjacent commercial and residential properties.
   (D)   Business trade school and/or technical school.
   (E)   Communication transmission tower and power line, per applicable City
Code provisions.
   (F)   Firing range. An indoor facility where firearms are discharged at
targets and which is designed so that projectiles fired from firearms at
targets are prevented, by means of backstops, berms, or other barriers, from
going beyond the walls of the facility; provided:
      (1)   The firing range shall not be located on any lot adjacent to an
existing residential district.
      (2)   The firing range shall not be located within 1,000 lineal feet,
measured from building to building, licensed to dispense intoxicating or non-
intoxicating liquor, nor shall they be in a building that dispenses liquor.
      (3)   The use, occupancy and construction of the building shall conform
to the Minnesota State Building Code.
      (4)   The building and method of operation shall comply with M.S. Chapter
87A.
      (5)   The building and method of operation shall conform with the
applicable Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, Environmental Protection Agency,
and OSHA standards for indoor ventilation, emission into the atmosphere, indoor
sound levels, lead containment and outside noise standards.
      (6)   The design and construction of the firing range shall completely
confine all ammunition rounds within the building and in a controlled manner.
The design and construction of the firing range shall be certified by a
registered engineer in the State of Minnesota. The certified plans shall
include the specifications and construction of the bullet trap(s), ceilings,
exterior and interior walls and floors. The certified plans shall state what
type and caliber of ammunition the range is designed to totally confine.
      (7)   No ammunition shall be used in the range that exceeds the certified
design and construction specifications of the firing range.
      (8)   A written log of range users shall be maintained by the range
operator and available for inspection by the city at any/all times. The name
and address of the user shall be verified by photo identification. The log
shall include, but not be limited to the following:
         (a)   Name, address and phone number of the range users.
         (b)   Time and date the user was in the range.
      (9)   Firearms shall not be stored on the premises when the range is
closed for business, unless they are stored in an acceptable gun safe. An
acceptable gun safe shall meet ALL of the following standards:
         (a)   Shall be able to fully contain firearms and provide for their
secure storage.
         (b)   Shall have a locking system consisting of, at minimum, a
mechanical or electronic combination lock. The mechanical or electronic
combination lock utilized by the safe shall have at least 10,000 possible
combinations consisting of a minimum of 3 numbers, letters, or symbols. The
lock shall be protected by a casehardened (Rockwell C 60+) drill resistant
steel plate, or drill resistant material of equivalent strength.
         (c)   Boltwork shall consist of a minimum of 3 steel locking bolts of
at least ½ inch thickness that intrude from the door of the safe into the body
of the safe or from the body of the safe into the door of the safe, which are
operated by a separate handle and secured by a lock.
         (d)   A gun safe shall be capable of repeated use. The exterior walls
shall be constructed of a minimum of 12-gauge thick steel for a single-walled
safe, or the sum of the steel walls shall add up to at least .100 inches for
safes with 2 walls. Doors shall be constructed of a minimum of 1 layer of 7-
gauge steel plate reinforced construction or at least 2 layers of a minimum 12-
gauge steel compound construction.
         (e)   Door hinges shall be protected to prevent the removal of the
door. Protective features include, but are not limited to, hinges not exposed
to the outside, interlocking door designs, dead bars, jeweler's lugs, and
active or inactive locking bolts.
      (10)   On-site supervision shall be supplied at all times by an adult
with credentials as a range operator. The range operator shall be responsible
for the conduct of their place of business and the conditions of safety and
order in the place of business and on the premises.
      (11)   The applicant shall provide and maintain proof of liability
insurance which shall require the insurer notify the City Administrator in
writing within 10 business days of cancellation of the policy, a change in the
limit of the policy and/or a change in policy ownership. Said policy shall be
available for inspection by the City Administrator and/or his/her assigns at
all times.
      (12)   On site instruction shall be given only by certified firearms
instructors. Current certificates for firearms instructors shall be on display
in a conspicuous location in the premises and available for public inspection
at all times.
      (13)   An outside security plan for the general grounds shall be
submitted to the City Administrator or designee for review and approval.
      (14)   The transport of firearms on the premises, to the premises and
from the premises shall conform to state law.
      (15)   Minors shall not be allowed in the range unless accompanied by an
adult at all times. This provision shall not be interpreted to prohibit minors
from participating in a firearm safety class which is supervised by an adult
instructor.
      (16)   Required license(s) are obtained from the City of Jordan.
      (17)   The Council reserves the authority to review or modify the
performance standards for the range.
   (G)   Grain elevators and grain milling, provided:
      (1)   The site plan shall indicate that adequate provision has been made
for loading and unloading grain and storage of any vehicle used in the
operation.
      (2)   At least 15% of the site must be landscaped.
      (3)   The use may not be located within 500 feet of any property used for
residential purposes or zoned R-l, R-2, R-3, R-4, or R-5.
   (H)   Heliport.
   (I)   Inflammable liquid storage not to exceed 500,000 gallon, provided:
      (1)   Adequate provisions for containing any spillage on the site must be
included on the site plan and on the site.
      (2)   A plan for fire control and suppressions must be submitted to the
city and found to be acceptable.
      (3)   The use shall not be located within 1,000 feet from any residential
use or RR, R-l, R-2, R-3, R-4, or R-5 district.
   (J)   Outdoor storage areas accessory to the principal use or structure
which exceed a 2:1 land to building ratio, and are screened in accordance with
City Code §
154.177(G)(2), provided:
      (1)   Outdoor storage shall be located outside of the front yard areas
and shall not be placed between the principal building and an abutting street.
      (2)   Outdoor storage shall be completely screened from any adjacent
street, sidewalk, public walkway, or public park.
      (3)   Outdoor storage shall be screened from abutting residential uses
with a wall, solid fencing, evergreen hedge, or equivalent material. All
screening shall be 6 feet in height.
   (K)   Outdoor sales and display areas accessory to the principal use or
structure which exceed a 2:1 land to building ratio, provided:
      (1)   No open sales lot shall exist unless the same use occupies space in
a principal building on the same lot.
      (2)   The size of the open sales lot shall not be greater than 4 times
the square footage the use has within the building on the same property.
      (3)   The site of the open sales lot must be adequately screened to
minimize impact on adjacent properties.
   (L)   Regional pipelines, provided:
      (1)   Shall be located within an easement having a minimum width of 100
feet.
      (2)   Shall not be any closer than 250 feet from a residential building.
      (3)   Shall not be any closer than 400 feet from any school, church, or
other public assembly area.
      (4)   Shall be duly marked to identify its location.
   (M)   Retail sales of heavy industrial, manufacturing or construction
machinery or equipment, and farm or agriculture related equipment, provided:
      (1)   The site shall contain at least 5 acres.
      (2)   No building or outdoor storage or material shall be located closer
than 500 feet from any residentially zoned or residentially zoned or
residentially used property.
      (3)   Outdoor storage area shall be landscaped consisting of coniferous
and deciduous trees and measuring at least 10 feet in width.
   (N)   Sewage disposal plant, provided:
      (1)   The site must contain at least 5 acres.
      (2)   At least 15% of the site must be landscaped.
      (3)   The site shall not be located within 1,000 feet of any RR, R-l, R-
2, R-3, R-4, or R-5 district unless a landscape buffer area measuring at least
50 feet wide is provided consisting of densely planted coniferous and deciduous
trees in which case the site may be located within 500 feet of said districts.
   (O)   Structures over 3 stories or 45 feet.
   (P)   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS), subject to requirements of the
City Code.
   (Q)   Motor vehicle sales. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The use must be accompanied by a permitted use under City Code §
154.172.
   (R)   Planned unit developments.
   (S)   Trailers and intermodal shipping containers in accordance with City
Code §
154.177(B).
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2919-09, passed 11-18-2019; Am. Ord.
2020-04, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 154.174 INTERIM USES.
   Within the I-2, General Industrial District, the following uses may be
allowed provided the requirements of §
154.051 are followed:
   (A)   Mining. Subject to the following:
      (1)   A plan shall be submitted showing the route the trucks will use in
traveling to and from the site.
      (2)   Access to the property is subject to city approval and shall be
located where it is likely to cause the least disruption to existing use of
property in the area.
      (3)   The persons responsible for mining and future land reclamation must
remove debris, dust, dirt or sand from the street at appropriate intervals
consistent with the city requirements.
      (4)   A plan for reclamation showing finished grade and cover materials
shall be submitted along with a staging plan so that no 1 area is left exposed
for longer than 90 days. Materials used to reclaim land shall be consistent
with the conditions in the natural environment on the property and with the
future land use.
      (5)   Mining shall not be allowed unless the city finds the plan for
reclamation of the land is suitable.
      (6)   A bond or letter of credit may be required by the city to ensure
that any damage caused to street or public property is corrected by the owner.
   (B)   Land reclamation. Subject to the following:
      (1)   The access to the property is subject to approval and shall be
located where it is likely to cause the least disruption to existing use of
property in the area.
      (2)   Materials used to reclaim land shall be consistent with the
conditions in the natural environment on the property and with the future land
use.
      (3)   Persons responsible for land reclamation shall remove debris, dust,
dirt or sand from the street at appropriate intervals consistent with city
requirements.
      (4)   A bond or letter of credit may be required by the city to ensure
that any damage caused to street or public property is corrected by the
applicant.
   (C)   Subject to the review and processing of an interim use permit as
regulated by this section, the Planning Commission may reduce the number of
required off-street parking spaces when the applicant can demonstrate in
documented form a need which is less than required. In such situations, the
city shall require a site plan illustrating "Proof of Parking" availability.
The plan shall illustrate where the additional parking will be located and how
the traffic circulation will coordinate with the site plan and existing parking
lot should use or needs change. The Planning Commission shall also consider:
      (1)   The on-street parking available by the site.
      (2)   The expected usage of the site and parking demand.
      (3)   Surrounding land uses and zoning districts.
      (4)   The provisions of this section affecting the parking lot or loading
area.
      (5)   Any other associated aspect that the Planning Commission deems
necessary to evaluate the request.
      (6)   The applicant shall install the additional required off-street
parking within 3 months of written notification by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Physical recreational and educational training facilities.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2014-09, passed 7-7-2014)
§ 154.175 PERMITTED ACCESSORY USES.
   Within any industrial district, the following uses are permitted accessory
uses as such are defined and in accordance with the required lot provisions and
design and performance standards, provided they comply with applicable City
Code provisions for the various uses.
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading areas and parking ramps.
   (B)   Fences and walls in accordance with §
154.177(J).
   (C)   Signs.
   (D)   Temporary buildings located on the premises for construction purposes
for a period not to exceed the time necessary for such construction.
   (E)   Satellite dishes and antennae.
   (F)   Solar collection devices.
   (G)   A security/caretaker office to a mini-storage warehouse.
   (H)   Commercial sales of products directly manufactured or assembled as a
part of the principal use, provided that no more than 20% of the gross floor
area is used for this purpose.
   (I)   Communication structures. Satellite dishes, antennae and similar
devices provided they are not located in the required front yard or within 15
feet of the side lot line or rear lot line.
   (J)   Outdoor storage areas which are less than or equal to a 2:1 land to
building ratio, provided:
      (1)   Outdoor storage shall be located outside of the front yard areas
and shall not be placed between the principal building and an abutting street.
      (2)   Outdoor storage shall be completely screened from any adjacent
street, sidewalk, public walkway, or public park.
      (3)   Outdoor storage shall be screened from abutting residential uses
with a wall, solid fencing, evergreen hedge, or equivalent material. All
screening shall be 6 feet in height.
   (K)   Outdoor sales and display areas which are less than or equal to a 2:
1 land to building ratio, provided:
      (1)   No open sales lot shall exist unless the same use occupies space in
a principal building on the same lot.
      (2)   The size of the open sales lot shall not be greater than 4 times
the square footage the use has within the building on the same property.
      (3)   The site of an open sales lot must be adequately screened to
minimize impact on adjacent properties.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-04, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 154.176 LOT REQUIREMENTS. (SEE TABLE D, INDUSTRIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS TABLE)
   (A)   Minimum lot size, yards and setbacks. Where the average depth of front
yards of buildings adjacent to the lot in question is less or greater than the
required minimum front yard depth, the required front yard setback shall not be
less than the average depth of such existing front yards; however, the depth of
a front yard shall not be less than 25 feet or be required to exceed 50 feet.
   (B)   One principal building. There shall be no more than 1 principal
building on 1 lot except as provided through a planned unit development.
   (C)   Yard. No yard or other open space shall be reduced in area so as to
make such yard or other open space less than the minimum required by this
section; and if the existing yard or other open space as existing is less than
the minimum required, it shall not be further reduced. No required yard or open
space of any structure shall be included as a part of any yard or open space
required for another structure.
   (D)   Lots of record.
      (1)   For purposes of this section only, the term SMALL LOTS shall mean
those lots of record platted before April, 2011 which are expected to be zoned
industrial under the city's 2008 Comprehensive Guide Plan and are less than
43,560 square feet in area and less than 150 feet wide.
      (2)   Small lots shall be considered conforming lots under this section
and may not be subdivided.
      (3)   Existing principal and accessory buildings located on a small lot
shall be considered conforming buildings or structures. Any maintenance or
expansion of principal buildings located on small lots must be reviewed through
the site plan process in order to obtain a building permit. No expansion to a
principal building on a small lot will be permitted if the expansion (1)
reduces the current front yard setback, or (2) is proposed to be located within
15 feet of a structure located upon an adjacent lot. New accessory buildings on
small lots must comply with the setbacks of this section. Accessory buildings
existing at the time of adoption of this revised section may not be expanded,
unless in compliance with setbacks.
      (4)   The City Council may provide for other exemptions from this section
which are necessary to accommodate the industrial use of small lots and
existing buildings thereon. The Council shall make written findings supporting
its determination.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.177 DESIGN AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   The design and performance standards are established to encourage a high
standard of development by providing assurance that land uses will be
compatible. The performance standards are designed to prevent and eliminate
those conditions which depreciate property values that cause blight or are
detrimental to the environment. Before any building permit is approved, the
Zoning Administrator shall determine whether the proposed use will conform to
the design and performance standards. The applicant or owner shall supply data
necessary to demonstrate such conformance.
   (A)   Noise. It is unlawful to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued, any noise in excess of the noise levels set forth in Minnesota Rules
7030.0040, which includes standards for activities by the noise area
classification (NAC) system, established in part by Minnesota Rules 7030.0050,
unless such noise be reasonably necessary to the preservation of life, health,
safety or property.
   (B)   Trailers. Use of any trailers for storage, or of intermodal shipping
containers, shall be allowed by conditional use permit only, subject to annual
review.
      (1)   Such trailers or containers shall not be allowed unless screened,
or maintained on the exterior.
      (2)   All such trailers or containers shall be located to the rear of the
principal structure, and shall be parked in good order so as to minimize their
visibility from the street.
      (3)   All such trailers or containers must be moveable on premises, may
not contain fuels, volatile chemicals, or other flammable materials, and shall
be subject to inspection by state and local fire department officials. No such
trailers or containers may be stacked.
      (4)   Earthen or other permanent fixed ramps may not be used with
trailers or containers used for storage. The wheels on such trailers must
remain at grade, i.e., wheels may not be dug into the ground to create a ramp.
      (5)   Trailers and containers used for storage shall occupy no more than
an area equal to 7% of the manufacturing and warehousing floor area of the
permanent structures on the property, except that up to 4 such trailers and
containers may be placed on any property that has a completed principal
structure; however in no instance shall the total area of such storage exceed
the total area of the manufacturing/warehousing area of the principal
structure.
      (6)   Unlicensed vehicles designed as a contractor’s job shop or office
shall not be permitted.
   (C)   Refuse and waste. All waste material, debris, refuse, or garbage shall
be kept in an enclosed building or properly contained in a closed container
designed for such purposes, with the exception of crop residue. The owner of
vacant land shall be responsible for keeping such land free of refuse. Wastes
shall be disposed of in a manner that is not dangerous to public health and
safety, nor will damage public waste transmission or disposal facilities.
   (D)   Toxic or noxious matter. Any use shall be so operated in compliance
with the Clean Air Act, as amended, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
and MN Pollution Control Agency (MPCA) regulations. All activities that emit
radioactivity shall comply with the minimum requirements of the federal
regulatory body.
   (E)   Air pollution. Any use shall be operated so it conforms to the
regulations and standards adopted by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency.
   (F)   Nuisance. Unused refrigerators or similar containers with doors which
fasten automatically when closed shall not be exposed or accessible to the
public. In addition, the regulations and standards adopted in City Code
Ch. 90 Nuisances; Health and Safety shall be employed. Any proposed use
creating periodic earthshaking vibration shall be prohibited if undue
vibrations are perceptible beyond boundaries of the property on which the use
is located. This standard shall not apply to vibrations during the process of
construction.
   (G)   Screening.
      (1)   Where any business or industry (structure, parking or storage) is
adjacent to property zoned or developed for residential or highway commercial
use, that business or industry shall provide an earth berm a minimum of 6 feet
in height and screening along the boundary of the residential and/or commercial
property. Screening shall also be provided where a business, parking lot, or
industry is located across the street from a residential zone, but not on that
side of a business or industry considered to be the front.
      (2)   All outdoor storage shall be screened. The screening required in
this section may consist of a fence, trees, shrubs, and berms, but shall not
extend within 15 feet of any street or driveway. The screening shall be placed
along property lines or in case of screening along a street, 20 feet from the
street right-of-way with landscaping between the screening and pavement.
Planting of a type approved by the Council may also be required in addition to
or in lieu of fencing.
   (H)   Landscaping and required yards/setbacks. All developed uses shall
provide a landscaped yard, including grass, decorative stones, or shrubs and
trees, along all streets. This yard shall be kept clear of all structures,
storage, and off-street parking.
      (1)   Except for driveways, the yard shall extend along the entire
frontage of the lot, and along both streets in the case of a corner lot: such
yard shall have a depth of at least 10 feet. No landscape material, other than
grass, shall be placed within drainage or utility easements. Rock or riprap may
be allowed upon review and approval by the City Council provided the proposed
material does not interfere with drainage or utilities.
      (2)   All structures and areas requiring landscaping and fences shall be
maintained so as not to be unsightly or present harmful health or safety
conditions.
      (3)   Required yards and setback areas, except driveways and areas used
as a garage or accessory building, shall be graded to final elevations and
sodded or seeded and landscaped with trees and shrubs. Said grading and
landscaping shall be completed within 180 days after first occupancy of the
building. Any fence, wall or other similar work must be completed within 180
days after construction commences. All property developed and property for
which construction has commenced or a building permit issued prior to December
31, 1991 shall conform to this requirement on or before June 30, 1992.
      (4)   Tree and woodland preservation shall be accomplished in accordance
with the Tree and Woodland Preservation provisions of §
153.11(M) and City Code
Ch. 153 Subdivisions.
      (5)   Perimeter trees. Industrial sites shall contain, at a minimum, 1
tree required per 40 feet of the site perimeter.
      (6)   Entry plantings. Each entry and focal area of a development shall
be treated with landscape development (trees, shrubs, etc.). No numerical
requirement of plants is provided, but the landscape plan shall reflect the
proposed treatment. Trees required on the perimeter calculation are not
applicable to this design feature.
      (7)   Parking lot landscape. Requirements for parking lots are outlined
in §§
154.221 through
154.230.
      (8)   Miscellaneous screenings. As identified in §
154.177(G) other screening shall be provided. No numerical requirement of
plants is provided. The perimeter tree planting requirement may be used to
provide trees for this purpose, if coniferous trees are used.
   (I)   Outdoor lighting and glare. Any artificial lighting used to illuminate
an off-street parking area, sign or other structure shall be arranged so as to
deflect light away from any adjoining residential zone or from the public
streets. Direct or sky-reflected glare, whether from floodlights or from high
temperature processes such as combustion or welding, shall not be directed into
any adjoining property. The source of lights shall be hooded or controlled in
some manner so as not to light adjacent property. Bare incandescent light bulbs
shall not be permitted in view of adjacent property or public right-of-way. Any
light or combination of lights which cast light on a public street shall not
exceed 1 foot candle (meter reading) as measured from the centerline of said
street. Any light or combination of lights which cast light on residential
property shall not exceed 0.4 candles (meter reading) as measured from said
property. All outdoor lighting shall be directed perpendicular to the ground or
directly on a building so that no direct rays are visible from off the
property.
   (J)   Fence and walls. Maintenance-free fence and walls and hedges are
permitted in the yard setback area under the following conditions:
      (1)   A fence or wall not exceeding 6 feet in height may be constructed
in any side or rear year setback area;
      (2)   A fence or wall not exceeding 3½ feet in height may be constructed
in any front yard;
      (3)   No fence, hedge or wall shall cause a visual obstruction to
traffic.
      (4)   Fences and walls are structures and require a building permit and
shall meet all International Building Code requirements for such structures.
   (K)   Traffic visibility. No wall, fence, structure, tree, shrub, vegetation
or other obstruction shall be permitted in any yard or setback which poses a
danger to traffic by obscuring the view from any street or roadway. Visibility
from any street or roadway shall be unobstructed above the height of 2 feet to
a height of 5 feet within the triangle described as beginning at the
intersection of the projected curb lines of 2 intersecting streets, thence 30
feet along 1 curb, thence diagonally to a point 30 feet from the point of
beginning of the other curb line, thence to the point of beginning.
   (L)   Sidewalks and trails. In projects involving new construction, the
plans and improvements must include construction of a sidewalk or trail where
one is included in the city's sidewalk or trail plan and boulevard sod and
street trees shall be provided consistent with city requirements.
   (M)   No more than 1 building. There shall be no more than 1 principal
building on 1 lot except as provided under planned unit development provisions.
   (N)   Utilities. Shall be placed underground and meters shall be screened
from view from the street. Buildings designed for human occupancy must have and
be connected to city water and the city sanitary sewer system.
   (O)   Fabricating must be inside. All fabrication, manufacturing, processing
or production shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building.
   (P)   Erosion. Soil erosion and sedimentation control shall be used/employed
during construction and during the duration of the use of the property as
required in the Soil Erosion and Sediment Control provisions of City Code
Ch. 153 Subdivisions.
   (Q)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and unloading areas shall be
provided in accordance with the off-street parking and off-street loading
requirements. Modifications to all parcels and buildings are also subject to
the provisions of §§
154.221 through
154.230 Off-street Parking and Loading Spaces.
   (R)   Signs. Development and modification to all parcels, street uses, and
buildings are subject to the provisions of §§
154.241 through
154.260 Signs.
   (S)   Architecture and materials. Development and modification to all
parcels, structures, and buildings are subject to the provisions of §
154.311 through
154.316 Architectural Control and Building Materials.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020; Am. Ord.
2020-04, passed 11-16-2020; Am. Ord. 2024-06, passed 9-23-2024)
To view Tables D in PDF, click HERE
 
TABLE D: INDUSTRIAL LOT REQUIREMENTS (See §§ 154.160 through 154.170 for complete
lists).
           Minimum       Front   Rear    Side                           Maximum
           Lot     Lot   Yard    Yard    Yard     Maximum       Bulk or Impervious
           Size    Width Setback Setback Setback  Height        Density Surface
                                                                        Coverage
I-1        Lot                           Internal
Light      Area:                         Lot: 15
Industrial 43,650  150   30 ft   20 ft   ft       No structure          70%
District   sq ft   ft                    Corner   or building
154.160    (1                            Lot: 25  shall exceed
           acre)                         ft       3 stories or
                                                  45 ft in
                                                  height,
                                                  whichever is
                                                  less, except
                                                  the following
                                                  which may not
                                                  exceed 75 ft
                                                  in height:
                                                  church
                                                  spires,
                                                  belfries, and
                                                  cupolas that  The
                                                  do not        floor
                                                  contain       area
                                                  usable space; ration
I-2        Lot                           Internal monuments;    shall
General    Area:                         Lot: 15  flag poles;   not
Industrial 43,650  150   30 ft   20 ft   ft       chimneys;     exceed  80%
District   sq ft   ft                    Corner   cooling       0.5
154.170    (1                            Lot: 25  towers;
           acre)                         ft       elevator
                                                  penthouses;
                                                  and radio,
                                                  television,
                                                  and other
                                                  communication
                                                  towers.
                                                  Structures
                                                  higher than
                                                  45 ft may be
                                                  approved with
                                                  a conditional
                                                  use permit.
 
CONSERVANCY DISTRICT (CD)
§ 154.181 PURPOSE.
   The Conservancy District is established to preserve and perpetuate in an
open state certain areas, such as wetlands and slopes greater than 18% in grade
which, because of their physical features, are desirable as water retention
areas, natural habitat for plant and animal life, green space or other
beneficial uses.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.182 APPLICATION.
   Areas included in the Conservancy District are unsuitable for residential,
business, industrial and most institutional development due to flooding, high
water table, wetland conditions, restrictive soil conditions, steep slopes and/
or natural or wildlife habitat. The CD – Conservancy District may be applied
only when over 30% of the total parcel proposed for rezoning is comprised of
wetlands and/or steep slopes.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.183 PERMITTED USES.
   The following are permitted uses within the CD – Conservancy District.
   (A)   Permanent open space.
   (B)   Public and private natural conservation areas.
   (C)   Essential services, public or government utility services.
   (D)   Emergency access as approved by the City Council.
   (E)   Recreational trails.
   (F)   Low impact, passive recreational activities such as hiking/biking and
non-permanent picnic amenities (i.e. picnic tables).
   (G)   Harvesting of wild crops such as marsh grasses, hay, berries, tree
fruit, and seeds.
   (H)   Forest and game management area.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.184 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   The following are conditional uses within the CD – Conservancy
District, subject to the standards of this section.
      (1)   Public parks, public campgrounds, public recreational areas, and
historic monuments.
      (2)   Active play and recreational facilities.
      (3)   Non-publicly owned recreational facilities.
   (B)   A conditional use permit may be approved only if all of the following
findings of fact are found to exist:
      (1)   The proposed conditional use shall not increase the height or
duration of floodwater in any watercourse.
      (2)   The proposed conditional use shall not be inconsistent with the
objectives of encouraging land uses compatible with the preservation of the
natural land forms, vegetation, wildlife, marshes, and wetlands within the
city.
      (3)   The proposed conditional use shall not disturb land and water areas
essential to continue the temporary or permanent holding of surface water
runoff.
      (4)   The criteria in §
154.047 Conditional Use Permits are determined to be met.
   (C)   The applicant shall be responsible for submitting engineering data,
surveys, site plans, and other information as the city may require and bear the
burden of proof that the proposed conditional use does not conflict with the
standards identified in §
154.182.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT (PUD)
§ 154.191 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the development as an
integrated, coordinated unit as opposed to traditional parcel-by-parcel,
approach to development. This subchapter is intended to introduce flexibility
of site design and architecture for the conservation of land and open space
through clustering of buildings and activities. It is further intended that
planned unit developments (PUD's) are to be characterized by central
management, integrated planning and architecture, joint or common use of
parking, maintenance of open space and other similar facilities, and a
harmonious selection and efficient distribution of uses. The intent of the PUD
is not to decrease setback and yard requirements exclusively to increase
density, but rather provide flexibility and joint planning between the city and
developer to protect other features such as existing development, planned
streets, vegetation, slopes, wetlands, lakes or streams.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.192 OBJECTIVES.
   It is intended to encourage the efficient use of land and resources, to
promote greater efficiency in public utility services and encourage innovation
in the planning and building of all types of development. Public benefits to be
derived as a result of the PUD include but are not limited to:
   (A)   Permit and promote greater flexibility to allow more creativity and
imaginative design, and to promote more efficient uses of the land while
preserving existing landscape amenities and allowing harmonious development
consistent with the Comprehensive Plan for Jordan and preserving the health,
safety and welfare of the community.
   (B)   Ensure concentration of open space into more usable areas, and the
preservation of the natural resources of the site including wetlands,
woodlands, steep slopes and scenic areas.
   (C)   Facilitate the economical provision of streets and public utilities.
   (D)   Encourage the preservation and enhancement of historic and natural
resources while creating a positive environment with special development
features.
   (E)   Allow more than 1 principal building on a lot.
   (F)   Allow for a mixture of residential units in an integrated and well-
planned area and provide for a variety of housing types, consistent with the
city's housing goals.
   (G)   Promote energy conservation through the use of more efficient building
designs, sites and clustering of land uses and buildings.
   (H)   Provide for mixed commercial and residential uses, where appropriate.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.193 TYPES OF PERMITTED PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   The underlying zoning district shall be consistent with the Comprehensive
Plan. PUDs overlay districts may be 1 of the following:
   (A)   Planned Residential District (PRD).
   (B)   Planned Commercial District (PCD).
   (C)   Planned Industrial District (PID).
   (D)   Planned Mixed-Use District (PMD).
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.194 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   Ownership. An application for PUD approval must be filed by the
landowner or jointly by all landowners of the property included in a project.
The application and all submissions must be directed to the development of the
property as a unified whole. In the case of multiple ownership, the approval of
the final plat shall be binding on all owners. In absence of an ownership
application, the project developer may submit with the development application
the written consent of all property owners within the proposed PUD. The
financial commitments incurred through any portion of the development shall be
the responsibility of the ownership.
   (B)   Consistency with Comprehensive Plan. The proposed PUD shall be
consistent with the adopted Jordan Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   Permitted uses. All permitted, permitted accessory, or conditional
uses contained in the underlying zoning district shall be treated as permitted,
permitted accessory and conditional uses in PUD overlay district. Mixed use
PUD's are permitted provided they meet the intent and purpose for which a PUD
is permitted. Uses not listed as permitted or conditional in a specific
district shall not be allowed in a PUD unless it is found that the use is
complimentary to the functionality of the development and the other uses found
therein.
   (D)   Density. Site coverage regulations for the underlying district shall
apply to the PUD overlay district. Increased density shall be permitted to
encourage the preservation of natural topography and geological features;
however the provisions of this subchapter shall not require the city to provide
concessions in setbacks, density, or lot size to protect waterways or water
bodies, steep slopes or other areas which would normally not be developable.
The city will consider allowing an increase in the allowable density upon proof
by the applicant that some of the following features are being provided as part
of the proposed development:
      (1)   Preservation of natural site features, wetlands, lowlands, wooded
areas, and the like, protected by the Minnesota Department of Natural
Resources, by the city and/or Scott County ordinances. The city may, but shall
not be required to, provide concessions in setbacks or density for areas, which
would not normally be considered developable due to the presence of these
features.
      (2)   Creation of conservation easements due to steep slopes, wooded
areas and/or environmentally sensitive areas, as identified in the Jordan
Comprehensive Plan.
      (3)   Creation of park/public areas for active and passive park uses
beyond required standards or other public purposes such as schools, public
buildings, greenways, and the like which meet the intent of the park and
recreation goals of the Jordan City Comprehensive Plan and are consistent with
the public dedication requirements for the proposed development.
      (4)   Installation of public improvements designed to serve areas beyond
the project boundary.
      (5)   The city may consider increased density for housing projects which
provide affordable housing options, consistent with the City's Comprehensive
Plan.
   (E)   Minimum lot size. The minimum lot size requirements of other sections
of this chapter do not apply to a PUD except that the minimum lot size
requirements of the underlying zone shall serve as a guideline to determine the
maximum dwelling unit density of a total development. The maximum dwelling unit
density shall be determined by the area remaining after appropriate space for
street right-of-ways and any other public dedications have been determined and
subtracted from the total PUD area. If the property involved in the PUD
includes land in more than 1 zoning district, the number of dwelling units or
the square footage of commercial, residential or industrial uses in the PUD
shall be proportional to the amount that would be allowed separately on the
parcels located in each of the underlying zoning districts.
   (F)   Set-back and side yard requirements. Notwithstanding other provisions
of this subchapter, every lot in a PUD abutting the perimeter of the PUD shall
conform to yard requirements for the underlying district. Side yards between
buildings in a non-single-family residential PUD shall be not less than 20 feet
or the height of the building, whichever is greater, but such buildings may be
built without reference to the property lines of the individual lots on which
they are built.
   (G)   Relationship of PUD site to adjacent areas. The design of a PUD shall
take into account the relationship of the site to the surrounding areas. The
perimeter of the PUD shall be so designed as to minimize undesirable impact of
the PUD on adjacent properties and, conversely, to minimize undesirable impact
of adjacent land use and development characteristics on the PUD.
   (H)   Utility requirements. Utilities, including telephone and electrical
systems, installed within a PUD shall be placed underground. Utility
appurtenances which can be effectively screened may be exempt from this
requirement if the city finds that such exemption will be consistent with the
objective of this section and the character of the proposed PUD.
   (I)   Parking. Off-street parking and loading space shall be provided in
each PUD in the same ratios for types of buildings and uses as required in the
underlying zoning district.
   (J)   Street width. Requirements outlined in the subdivision ordinance for
street widths may be relaxed depending on the number of off-street parking
locations and the anticipated density in the planned unit development. The
Planning Commission, City Engineer and City's Emergency Services (Fire,
Ambulance and Police) shall review each planned unit development to determine
street width requirements.
   (K)   Landscaping. In any PUD, the developer shall prepare and submit a
landscaping plan as a part of the final plan, which shall include a detailed
planting list with sizes and species indicated to be approved by the City
Council. In assessing the landscaping plan, the City Council shall consider the
natural features of the particular site, the architectural characteristics of
the proposed structures and the overall scheme of the PUD plan.
   (L)   Public services. The proposed project shall be served by the city
water and sewer system and fire hydrants shall be installed at such locations
as required by the City Engineer or the Fire Chief to provide fire protection.
   (M)   Building height. Height limitations shall be the same as imposed in
the respective zoning districts.
   (N)   Site improvement agreement. Prior to the issuance of a building permit
as part of the PUD, the permit applicant, builder, or developer shall execute
and deliver to the City Council a development agreement for the PUD.
   (O)   Open space. Common open space shall be either held in common ownership
by all owners in the PUD or dedicated for public use with approval of the City
Council. Whenever possible, common open space shall be linked to the open space
areas of adjoining developments. Common open space shall be of such size,
shape, character, and locations as to be useable for its proposed purpose.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.195 OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR PUD COMMON OPEN SPACE AND
SERVICE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Whenever common open space or service facilities are provided within
the PUD, the PUD plan shall contain provisions to assure the continued
operation and maintenance of such open space and service facilities to a
predetermined reasonable standard.
   (B)   Common open space and service facilities within a PUD shall be placed
under the ownership of 1 or more of the following or may include a method
deemed most appropriate by the City Council.
      (1)   Landlord control, where only use by tenants is anticipated.
      (2)   Property owners association, provided all of the following
conditions are met:
         (a)   Prior to the use, occupancy, sale or the execution of contracts
for sale of an individual building unit, parcel, tract, townhouse, apartment,
or common area, a declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions or an
equivalent document as specified in M.S. § 515B.00, as may be amended from time
to time, shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator prior to the filings of
the declaration of documents or floor plans with the Scott County's Recorder's
Office.
         (b)   The declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions or
equivalent document shall specify that deeds, leases or documents of conveyance
affecting buildings, units, parcels, tracts, townhouses or apartments shall
subject the properties to the terms of the declaration.
         (c)   The declaration of covenants, conditions and restrictions shall
provide that an owner's association or corporation may be formed, and if such
an association or corporation is formed property owners must be members of the
association or corporation which shall maintain all properties and common areas
in good repair and which shall assess individual property owners proportionate
shares of joint or common costs. This declaration shall be subject to the
review and approval of the City Attorney. The intent of this requirement is to
protect the property values of the individual owner through establishing
effective private control.
         (d)   The declaration shall additionally, amongst other things,
provide that in the event the association or corporation fails to maintain
properties in accordance with the applicable rules and regulations of the city,
or fails to pay taxes or assessments on properties as they become due, and in
the event the city incurs any expenses not immediately reimbursed by the
association or corporation, then the city shall have the right to assess each
property its pro rata share of the expenses. Such assessments, together with
interest thereon and costs of collection, shall be a lien on each property
against which such assessment is made.
         (e)   Membership in the association must be mandatory for each owner
and any successive buyer and the association must be responsible for liability
insurance, taxes, and the maintenance of the open space facilities to be deeded
to it. This requirement may be waived by the City Council for existing units
which are being incorporated into a PUD.
         (f)   The open space restrictions must be permanent and not for a
given period of years.
         (g)   Property owners must pay their pro rata share of the cost of the
association by means of an assessment to be levied by the association which
meets the requirements for becoming a lien on the property in accordance with
state law and the association must be able to adjust the assessment to meet
changing needs.
         (h)   The by-laws and rules of the association and all covenants and
restrictions to be recorded must be approved by the City Council prior to the
approval of the final PUD plan. If a final PUD plan is filed in 1 phase, with
staged final plats, the bylaws, rules of the association and all covenants and
restrictions may be filed with the final plat.
         (i)   Staging of common open space. The construction and provision of
all of the common open space and public improvements and recreational
facilities that are shown on the final development plan for a PUD must proceed
at the same rate as the construction of dwelling units or other private
facilities.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.196 PUD PROCESS.
   The PUD Overlay District is unique in that there is potential for a wide
range of properties to qualify for PUD zoning. The uses and intensity of
development can vary substantially since they are determined based on the
Comprehensive Plan, and specific setbacks, yard requirements and other
development controls are not predetermined as they are in the other districts
from RR through I-2, which are referred to as the conventional zoning
districts. The unique features of the PUD require that the land uses and
development plan for properties zoned PUD is established through adoption of a
specific ordinance and a general development plan for each property or area to
be so zoned. The major steps in this process are:
   (A)   Pre-application meeting. Upon filing of an application for a PUD, the
applicant of the proposed PUD shall arrange for and attend an informational
meeting with city staff. At such conference, the applicant shall be prepared to
generally describe their proposal for a PUD. The primary purpose of the meeting
shall be to provide the applicant with an opportunity to gather information and
obtain guidance as to the general suitability of the conformity to the
provisions of this Code before incurring substantial expense in the preparation
of detailed plans, surveys, and other data.
   (B)   Preliminary PUD plan process.
      (1)   The developer/owner shall submit an application for subdivision or
preliminary PUD plan at least 30 days prior to the Planning Commission meeting.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the preliminary application
and distribute to appropriate staff and consultants for review. The Zoning
Administrator shall post notice of a public hearing and forward all comments,
along with the application, to the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing, following
published notice and mailed notice to property owners within 350 feet of the
proposed PUD. Notice shall occur not less than 10 or more than 30 days prior to
the hearing. Failure of a property owner to receive notice shall not invalidate
the process. The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary PUD plan and
submit a written report and recommendation to the City Council. If the Planning
Commission fails to make a report within 30 days after receipt of the
application, the City Council may proceed without the report. Such report shall
contain the findings and recommendations of the Planning Commission with
respect to the conformity of the preliminary PUD plan to the approved general
concept plan, with respect to the merit or lack of merit of any departure of
the preliminary PUD plan from substantial conformity with the general concept
plan, and with respect to the compliance of the preliminary PUD plan with the
provisions of this Code and all other applicable federal, state, and local
codes and ordinances.
      (4)   Within 60 days of the receipt of a complete application, the City
Council will take action to grant approval, grant conditional approval, or deny
approval of the plan.
      (5)   Upon City Council approval, the City Attorney shall draft a PUD
development agreement which stipulates the specific terms and conditions
established and approved by the City Council and accepted by the applicant.
This agreement shall be signed by the Mayor, City Administrator, and the
applicant.
      (6)   Where the preliminary PUD plan is denied approval, City Council
action shall be by resolution setting forth the reasons for its actions. A
certified copy of the document evidencing said City Council action shall be
delivered to the applicant. The applicant will have 60 days to submit a revised
preliminary PUD plan to the Planning Commission. After the 60 day period, a
revised general concept plan must be submitted to the Planning Commission
unless otherwise arranged with the Zoning Administrator.
      (7)   If subsequent submittals of the preliminary PUD plan are denied
approval 2 times within 1 year of the original submission date, the applicant
will be required to submit a revised general concept plan.
      (8)   Limitation on preliminary PUD plan approval. Unless a final plan
covering the area designated in the first stage of the preliminary PUD plan has
been filed within 6 months from the date the City Council grants preliminary
PUD plan approval, or in any case where the applicant fails to file final plans
and to proceed with development in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter and/or an approved preliminary PUD plan, the approval shall expire.
The City Council may, at its discretion, extend for not more than 1 additional
period of 6 months the filing deadline for any final plan when, for good cause,
such extension is necessary. In any case where the preliminary PUD plan
approval expires, the City Council shall forthwith adopt a resolution repealing
the general concept plan approval and the preliminary PUD plan approval for
that portion of the PUD that has not received final plan approval, and re-
establish the zoning and other ordinance provisions that would otherwise be
applicable.
      (9)   Review and evaluation criteria. The evaluation of the proposed
preliminary PUD plan shall include, but not be limited to, the following
criteria:
         (a)   Adequate property control is provided to protect the individual
owner's rights and property values and the public responsibility for
maintenance and upkeep.
         (b)   The interior circulation plan plus access from and onto public
rights-of-way does not create congestion or dangers and is adequate for the
safety of the project resident and the general public.
         (c)   A sufficient amount of usable open space is provided.
         (d)   The arrangement of buildings, structures, and accessory uses
does not unreasonably disturb the privacy or property values of the surrounding
residential uses.
         (e)   The architectural design of the project is visually compatible
with the surrounding area. Architectural style or type of buildings shall not
solely be a basis for denial or approval of the preliminary PUD plan. However,
the overall appearance and compatibility of individual buildings to other site
elements of surrounding development will be given primary consideration in the
review stages of the Planning Commission and City Council.
         (f)   The drainage and utility system plans are submitted to the City
Engineer and shall be subject to approval of the City Engineer.
         (g)   The development schedule insures a logical development of the
site which will protect the public interest and conserve land.
         (h)   Proposed unit and accessory use requirements are in compliance
with the district provisions in which the development is planned.
   (C)   Final PUD plan process. The final plan is to serve as a complete,
thorough and permanent public record of the PUD and the manner in which it is
to be developed. It shall incorporate all prior approved plans and all approved
modifications thereof resulting from the PUD process. It shall serve in
conjunction with other city ordinances as the land use regulation applicable to
the PUD.
      (1)   Submission of the final plan. Upon approval of the preliminary PUD
plan, the applicant shall file with the Zoning Administrator a final plan
consisting of the information and submissions required by the final plan stage,
for the entire PUD or for 1 or more stages. The final plan is intended only to
add detail to, and to put in final form, the information contained in the
general concept plan and the preliminary PUD plan which shall conform to the
preliminary PUD plan in all respects. A final plan of a portion of the proposed
development may be submitted simultaneously with the overall preliminary plan
for purposes of expediting the review process.
      (2)   Review and approval of final plan. The Zoning Administrator shall
forward comments of staff and consultants to the Planning Commission, who shall
prepare a recommendation for the City Council. No public hearing shall be
required for approval of the final plan. The City Council may approve the PUD
final plan with a majority vote.
      (3)   Recording of final plat and PUD agreement. Within 30 days of the
Zoning Administrator's notice of approval, the applicant shall record the final
plat and PUD agreement, or such portions thereof as are appropriate, with the
Office of the Scott County Recorder.
      (4)   Building and other permits. No building permit shall be granted on
land for which a plan for a PUD is in the process of review or which does not
conform to the approved final plan. Upon receiving notice from the Zoning
Administrator that the approved final plat and agreement has been recorded and
upon appropriate application of the applicant, building and other permits may
be issued to the applicant if the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Public open space, if applicable, has been deeded to the city
and officially recorded.
         (b)   A development agreement has been approved and executed by all
parties.
         (c)   The homeowner's association (if applicable) by-laws, covenants
and deed restrictions have been approved by the City Attorney and officially
recorded.
         (d)   The construction plans for proposed structures have been
approved by the Building Official.
         (e)   All detailed site plans have been approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (5)   Limitation of final plan approval. Within 1 year after the approval
of a final plan for PUD, or such shorter time as may be established by the
appropriate development schedule, construction shall commence in accordance
with such approved plan. Failure to commence construction within such period
shall, unless an extension has been granted as hereinafter provided,
automatically renders void the PUD permit and all approvals of the PUD plan.
The area encompassed within the PUD shall thereafter be subject to those
provisions of the zoning ordinances and other ordinances applicable in the
district in which it is located. In such case, the City Council shall forthwith
adopt a resolution repealing the PUD permit and PUD approvals and re-
establishing the zoning and other ordinance provisions that would otherwise be
applicable.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.197 PUD DATA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Pre-application concept plan. Prior to the initiation of a zoning
change application, owners of property in the PUD District are invited to
prepare, for review by the city, development sketch plans. Items to be supplied
by the applicant for the pre-application meeting include:
      (1)   Overall maximum PUD density range.
      (2)   Proposed general development and use.
      (3)   General location of major streets, pedestrian walkways adjacent to
the tract, and scale and tract boundaries and north point.
      (4)   General location and extent of public and/or common open space,
areas to be preserved, significant topographical and physical features.
      (5)   Sketch illustrating the general location of residential and non-
residential land uses with approximate intensities of development and any
zoning change requested.
      (6)   Staging and timetable of development.
      (7)   Other special criteria for development.
   (B)   Such sketch plans submitted shall be for informal discussion between
the developer and the city. Submission of sketch plan shall not constitute
formal filing of an application.
   (C)   As far as may be practicable on the basis of a sketch plan, the city
will informally advise the owner as promptly as possible of the extent to which
the proposed plan conforms to the design standards of this subchapter and
discuss possible plan modifications necessary to secure conformance. The sketch
may be reviewed, where applicable, by the Planning Commission and the Council.
   (D)   The proposed use(s) must be consistent with the Comprehensive Plan.
   (E)   All proposals shall include a PUD plan for the site.
   (F)   Preliminary PUD plan. An application for approval of a preliminary PUD
plan shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator by the owner(s) of title of
property for which the PUD is proposed. A filing fee, as established from time
to time by City Council ordinance, shall accompany the preliminary PUD
application. Three copies of the application and accompanying statements shall
be submitted and shall include:
      (1)   A vicinity map at a scale approved by the Zoning Administrator
showing property lines, streets, easements, existing zoning, graphic scale,
north point, date of preparation, and such other items as the Planning
Commission may require to show the relationship of the proposed PUD to the
Comprehensive Plan of the city, to existing schools and other community
facilities and services, and to the surrounding area;
      (2)   Abstractor's certified copy property certificate providing names
and addresses of property owners within 350 feet of the outer boundaries of the
property (1 copy).
      (3)   The legal description of the property and lot size.
      (4)   Boundary survey prepared by a registered surveyor, including the
property and 200 feet beyond, which illustrates:
         (a)   Existing property lines and dimensions;
         (b)   Ownership of all parcels;
         (c)   Platting and easements;
         (d)   Street and railroad right-of-ways;
         (e)   Buildings;
         (f)   Utility lines and facilities;
         (g)   Public park and open space; and
         (h)   Private land use, subdivisions, and private property.
      (5)   Natural features map(s) illustrating:
         (a)   Contour lines at no more than two foot intervals;
         (b)   Steep slopes of 18% or more;
         (c)   Hydraulic information including drainage patterns, delineated
wetlands and land subject to periodic flooding, floodplain, watercourses;
         (d)   Soil an subsoil conditions; and
         (e)   Vegetation including classification of tree cover by species.
      (6)   A preliminary plan of the entire area in such detail as to show the
land uses being requested, the densities being proposed, the proposed lots and
blocks and the off-street parking system or preliminary plat, if applicable.
      (7)   A written statement explaining in detail, and with supporting
documentation, the specifics of the development plan as it relates to the type
of dwelling units proposed and the resulting population, the extent and nature
of non-residential development and the resulting traffic generated and parking
demands created.
      (8)   The proposed schedule and/or phasing for the development of the
site.
      (9)   The location, shape, size, and character of public or private/
common open space which is suitable for the PUD, in accordance with the City
Code
Ch. 153 Subdivisions requirements for park and open space dedication.
      (10)   The location and size of all utilities including telephone,
electricity, gas, cable, water, sanitary sewer and storm sewer.
      (11)   Landscape plan including a detailed planting list.
      (12)   Size and location of all street right-of-ways and proposed paved
widths, and vehicular and pedestrian circulation, in conformance with the City
Code
Ch. 153 Subdivisions.
      (13)   A statement setting forth the reasons why, in the opinion of the
applicant, the PUD will be in the public interest and consistent with the
objectives specified for PUD's.
      (14)   Financial capacity of the developer/owner and fiscal resources
available including a FDIC insured letter of credit for 110% of the estimated
cost of public improvements associated with the development.
      (15)   Market area of the project and demand trends within the area.
      (16)   Other materials as requested by the Planning Commission or City
Council.
   (G)   Final plan data requirements. A final application and its supporting
documentation shall give the same information as is required of plats under
City Code
Ch. 153 Subdivisions in addition to such other information as required by this
chapter and by the Planning Commission as a condition for approval of the
preliminary plan. In addition, the application shall be accompanied by such
other documentation, such as:
      (1)   The location, size, use and arrangement, including height in
stories and feet, and total square feet of ground area coverage and floor area,
for proposed building, and existing buildings which will remain, if any.
      (2)   The location, dimensions and number of all driveways, entrances,
curb cuts, parking stalls, loading spaces, access alleys, and all other
circulation elements including bicycle, pedestrian walkways, and the total site
coverage of all circulation elements.
      (3)   Approximate area, and potential floor area, devoted to commercial
or office uses.
      (4)   Approximate area, and potential floor area, devoted to industrial
uses.
      (5)   Schedule of construction. When the PUD is to be constructed in
stages during a period of time extending beyond a single construction season
(time period between road restrictions), a schedule for the development of such
stages or units shall be submitted stating the approximate beginning and
completion date for each stage or unit and the proportion of the total PUD
public or common open space and dwelling units to be provided or constructed
during each such stage, and the overall chronology of development to be
followed from stage to stage.
      (6)   Care and maintenance of open spaces or service facilities. When the
proposed PUD includes provisions for public or common open space or service
facilities, a statement describing the provision that is to be made for the
care and maintenance of such open space or service facilities shall be
submitted. If it is proposed that such open space be owned, operated and/or
maintained by any entity other than a governmental authority, copies of the
proposed articles of incorporation and by-laws of such entity shall be
submitted during the preliminary PUD plan stage.
      (7)   Where applicable, a preliminary and final plat prepared by a land
surveyor, duly registered in the state, in accordance with M.S. § 505.00 and
City Code
Ch. 153 Subdivisions, as may be amended from time to time, which shall contain
a notarized certification by such surveyor that the plat represents a survey
made by the surveyor and that the monuments shown herein exist as located, and
all dimensions are correct, and a notarized certification by the owner or
owners of the adoption of the plat and the dedication of streets and other
public areas as required.
      (8)   Detailed utility and infrastructure construction plans, grading
plan and drainage plan, approved by the City Engineer.
      (9)   A statement summarizing all changes which have been made to any
document, plan data, or information previously submitted, together with revised
copies of any such document, plan or data.
      (10)   Such other and further information as the Zoning Administrator,
City Engineer, Planning Commission or City Council shall find necessary to a
full consideration of the entire proposed PUD or any stage thereof.
      (11)   Title opinion provided by the developer showing good and
marketable title in the names of the owners of the property. This opinion,
together with an updated abstract, should be submitted to the City Attorney for
review.
      (12)   The Planning Commission may, by a written order, excuse any
applicant from submitting any specific item of information required herein
which it finds to be unnecessary to the consideration of the specific proposal
for PUD approval.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.198 AMENDMENTS AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Generally. Amendments may be made in the approved final plan when they
have shown to be required by changes in conditions that have occurred since the
final plan was approved or by changes in the development policy of the city.
      (1)   Minor changes in location, siting, and height of buildings and
structures may be authorized by the Zoning Administrator if requested, and if
caused by unforeseen circumstances and if they are consistent with the intent
and purpose of the final plan and do not increase the size of any building or
structure any more than 10% than originally proposed in the preliminary PUD
plan.
      (2)   All other changes, including but not limited to use, rearrangement
of lots, blocks and open space must be authorized by the Planning Commission
and City Council under procedures outlined in the preliminary PUD plan,
following a public hearing, with amendments to the recorded copy of the final
plan, following Council approval. It could leave questions later on that it
wasn't listed in the ordinance.
   (B)   Annual review. The Zoning Administrator shall review each PUD at least
once each year and shall make a report through the Planning Commission to the
City Council on the status of the development in each PUD Overlay District. If
development is not progressing reasonably well, according to schedule, the
owner shall be required to submit a statement to the Zoning Administrator
setting forth the reasons for the lack of progress. If the City Council finds
that the development has not occurred according to the establishing development
schedule or is not otherwise reasonable in the view of the City Council, the
City Council may initiate rezonings to remove the PUD Overlay District in any
event. It shall not be necessary for the City Council to find the rezoning to a
PUD Overlay District was in error.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.199 ADOPTED PUD OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   A comprehensive list of all existing PUD overlay districts as approved by
the City Council can be found at City Hall. Each area zoned PUD is numbered in
chronological order based on the date of original adoption followed by a brief
description of the location.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING SPACES
§ 154.221 PURPOSE.
   Regulation of off-street parking and loading space is necessary to alleviate
or prevent congestion of the public right-of-way and to promote the safety and
general welfare of the public. Regulation is accomplished by establishing
minimum requirements for off-street parking of vehicles and loading and
unloading operations associated with their use for the uses regulated by this
subchapter by analysis of the intensity, duration, time and style of
utilization of the land or structures in or from which each use is conducted
and in the case of the C-2, Central Business District, the development history,
on-street parking and public parking available.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.222 APPLICATION OF OFF-STREET PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The regulations and requirements set forth in this subchapter shall apply to
all districts. Application for all occupancy permits shall be accompanied by a
site plan drawn to a readable scale which indicates the location of off-street
parking and loading spaces on the site for which the occupancy permit is
requested.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.223 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Permits prior to effective date. Structures or uses for which a permit
has been issued prior to the effective date of this subchapter which are not
completed on its effective date shall be exempt from the parking requirements
of this subchapter if the structure is completed within 6 months after the
effective date of this subchapter. In such cases, the parking and loading
facilities provided for the structure or use must comply with the subchapter
requirements which were in effect at the time the permit was issued.
   (B)   Reduction of existing off-street parking space. Off-street parking
spaces and loading spaces existing upon the effective date of this subchapter
shall not be reduced in number unless their number exceeds the requirements
imposed for a similar new use by this subchapter; however, if the existing
parking meets the requirements the number of parking spaces may be reduced by
8% for the purpose of establishing landscaping.
   (C)   Floor area. Floor area shall mean gross floor area as defined in §
154.020. However, indoor parking and indoor loading spaces shall not be counted
as part of the floor area of a structure for the purpose of computing the
number of parking or loading spaces which are required.
   (D)   Design capacity. When a building's design capacity is used for
purposes of calculating requirements for off-street parking spaces, that design
capacity shall be determined by occupancy loading as specified in the
International Building Code.
   (E)   Benches in places of public assembly. In stadium, sports arenas,
structures of religious institutions, and other places of public assembly in
which patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews, or other similar seating
facilities, each 28 inches of such seating shall be counted as 1 seat for the
purpose of determining the requirements for off-street parking where the
parking requirement is calculated by application of a formula based on the
total number of seats.
   (F)   Calculating space. When the calculation of the number of off-street
parking spaces results in a fraction, each fraction of ½ or more shall require
another space.
   (G)   Use of parking facilities. Required off-street parking facilities in a
residential district may be utilized only for parking passenger automobiles;
however, 1 truck not exceeding 1.5 ton capacity may be parked by the occupant
of each dwelling unit on the resident's property inside a building. No required
parking facilities or public street in a residential district shall be used for
open-air storage of commercial vehicles, customer's vehicles, or vehicles
belonging to employees, owners, tenants or customers of business or
manufacturing establishments. No required off-street parking facility in a
residential district shall be utilized for storage of boats, other recreational
vehicles, or any junk, inoperable, or unsightly vehicles or materials.
   (H)   Location of parking facilities. Required off-street parking in the RR,
R-l, R-2, and R-3 Districts shall be on the same lot as the building housing
the principal use, except in the cases of:
      (1)   A religious institution.
      (2)   Condominium developments where off-street parking is designed on a
lot, or within a garage on a separate parcel but within the same condominium
development.
   (I)   Calculating space for a compound use. Should a structure contain 2 or
more types of uses, the total off-street parking spaces required for each use
shall be calculated separately unless requirements for joint parking
arrangements can be applied and an agreement is executed in a form acceptable
to and approved by the city.
   (J)   Joint parking facilities. Off-street parking facilities may be
provided collectively in any district for more than 1 structure or use, if the
following conditions are met.
      (1)   The applicant can demonstrate to the Zoning Administrator that
because of the hours, size, and mode of operation of the respective uses, there
will be an adequate amount of parking available to each use during its primary
hours of operation to meet the needs of such use.
      (2)   The joint use of the parking facilities shall be protected by
covenants that run with the lots housing all the joint users and the lot or
lots on which the parking facility which satisfies the parking requirement of
this section is provided. Those covenants shall grant a perpetual easement for
parking to the joint principal use lots. The form, manner of execution, and
content of such covenants must be approved by the City Attorney and the
document containing the covenants must be recorded with the County Recorder or
the Registrar of Titles for Scott County.
      (3)   Total required parking spaces for the joint use shall be based on
the combined peak requirement and shall not be fewer than the minimum ordinance
requirements for the use which requires the most parking.
   (K)   Use of parking area. Required off-street parking spaces and the
driveways providing access to them shall not be utilized for storage, display,
sales, rental, or repair of motor vehicles or any other goods, the storage of
inoperable vehicles, or the storage of snow.
   (L)   Conversion of garage space. No person shall alter a garage to living
space in any district, unless other legal provisions are made to provide the
required parking for the lot. Unless alternative provisions in compliance with
this section and title are made, no building permit shall be issued to convert
said parking structure into a dwelling unit or living area or other activity.
   (M)   Parking within structures. Off-street parking requirements may be
furnished by providing a space so designed within the principal building or
detached accessory structure.
   (N)   Change of use or occupancy of buildings. Any change of use or
occupancy of any building or buildings including additions thereto requiring
more parking and loading area shall not be permitted until there is furnished
such additional parking and loading areas as required by this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.224 DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE OF OFF-STREET PARKING AREAS.
   (A)   Access and location. Parking areas shall be designed to provide access
to a public alley or street. Driveway access shall not exceed 22 feet in width
in residentially zoned areas, and may not exceed 32 feet in width in commercial
and industrial zoned areas without the permission from the City Council, and
shall be so located at a place which will cause the least interference with
traffic movement. Required parking shall not encroach or be located within the
public right-of-way.
 
Driveways and Private Roads
Type of Driveway or Private Road                     Minimum Width
Two-way traffic with no parking lanes                24'
One way traffic and fire lanes                       20'
Drive-up windows not necessary for fire truck access 14'
Parking lanes                                        6'
 
   (B)   Parking spaces. Each parking space shall not be less than those shown
in the table below exclusive of access drives. Each parking space shall be
served by access drives which shall have the minimum dimensions provided in the
following table. Each parking space shall be located by striping on the
concrete or asphalt surface.
 
Parking Lot Dimension Table for Full Size Cars
Angle    Stall Width Length Length Aisle
45       9'          18'    14' 1 way aisle only
60       9'          18'    18' 1 way aisle only
75       9'          18'    22' 1 way aisle only
90       9'          18'    24' 2 way aisle
Parallel 10'         22'    24' 2 way aisle
 
   (C)   Handicapped parking spaces. The size, number, and location of stalls
reserved for "Parking for the Handicapped" shall be provided as required by
state and federal regulations. Signs bearing the required legend shall be
erected to identify those spaces. Disability accessible parking spaces shall be
provided as applicable pursuant to M.S. § 168.021, as may be amended.
   (D)   Turn-around. All parking areas except those serving 1 and 2 family
dwellings on local streets shall be designed so that cars do not have to back
into the public street.
   (E)   Surfacing. All driveways and all of the area intended to be utilized
for parking space for 3 or more vehicles shall be surfaced with a minimum of 2
inches of bituminous paving on a suitable base, or 6 inches of non-reinforced
concrete or equivalent material approved by the city. Decorative concrete
interlocking pavers on a suitable base may also be used in parking lots. In
areas where parking spaces are used on the average of 2 or fewer days per week,
grass road pavers, Ritter rings or other such pavers may be used which permit
the growth of ground covers and the infiltration of surface water. Such
pervious paving material shall be approved by the city.
   (F)   Drainage. There shall be adequate drainage of the surface of the
parking or paved area to a public storm sewer or to other approved means. Plans
for surfacing and drainage of all parking lots for 20 spaces or more or paved
areas of 6,000 square feet or more shall be approved by the city.
   (G)   Lighting. All parking lots containing parking for 20 vehicles or more
shall provide an average horizontal illumination of between 0.4 and 1.0 foot
candles. All lighting shall comply with the performance standards.
   (H)   Traffic islands. Raised islands shall be landscaped and provided at
the end of any parking row where it abuts vehicle circulation for traffic
control. Raised islands shall also be provided to separate pedestrian and
vehicular traffic. Based on the total number of parking spaces, the Zoning
Administrator may require more traffic islands and shall be determined as part
of the site plan review.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1979.jpg]
   (I)   Curbs. A poured in place, concrete curb measuring at least 6 inches
above and below the grade shall be provided around the periphery of all parking
lots designed for 6 or more cars. Such poured in place concrete curb is
required along all internal access roads. Curbs or other means shall be
provided to prevent parked vehicles from overhanging property lines.
   (J)   Landscaping. Landscaping shall be installed and maintained in all
setback areas between the paved areas and the property lines as well as traffic
islands. Landscaping shall comply with §§
154.321 through
154.325 General Landscaping Requirements.
   (K)   Yard.
      (1)   Parking areas shall be subject to the requirements of the front
yard and side yard abutting a street or on a corner provided in the district in
which the parking is located; except that in the R-1, R-2, and R-3 Districts,
parking for a detached single-family, 2-family house, or townhouse shall be
permitted in the front yard under the following conditions:
         (a)   There is no other location on the lot where parking is
practical.
         (b)   Total parking and driveway area does not occupy more than 40% of
the front yard area.
      (2)   Off-street parking areas located in front yards or in side yards
which abut a street may not be located within the setback areas for principal
structures, as provided in the district regulations for the district in which
the parking is located.
   (L)   When it can be demonstrated that no other alternative exists to
provide required off-street parking, and the parking is located between a front
lot line or a side lot line abutting a street and building in the I-1 or I-
2 Districts, the off-street parking area may extend to within 10 feet of the
lot line with the following conditions:
      (1)   The parking shall be for at least 6 vehicles.
      (2)   A solid bumper, curb, or fence not more than 3½ feet in height
shall be constructed in such a position and such a manner that no part of a
parked vehicle can extend into the yard setback area.
   (M)   Parking space abutting residential use districts. When a parking lot
for 6 or more vehicles is located abutting a residential district or
residential developed property, a landscaped side yard consisting of evergreen
trees and shrubs and other plant material capable of measuring at least 3 feet
high within 2 years after being planted shall be planted.
   (N)   Maintenance of off-street parking space. The owner and tenant shall
maintain the parking space, access ways, landscaping, setback areas, and
required fences in a neat and adequate manner.
   (O)   Compact car spaces. Up to 20% of the parking spaces in a parking lot
may be permanently marked for compact cars only, provided that:
      (1)   The parking lot contains 80 or more off-street parking spaces.
      (2)   All compact car spaces are a minimum of 8 feet in width and 16 feet
in length.
      (3)   Signs and markings, as approved by the city, are placed and
maintained in each compact car space.
      (4)   All required off-street parking aisle widths are maintained.
      (5)   The compact car stalls shall not displace preferred disability
accessible parking stall locations.
      (6)   The design, layout, and location of designated compact car spaces
shall not be located in immediate proximity to building entrances, shall not
encourage utilization by oversized vehicles, and shall be subject to approval
by the Zoning Administrator.
   (P)   Cart storage. Retail commercial uses shall provide ample space for the
storage of customer service carts within off-street parking areas, subject to
the approval of the Zoning Administrator. The need and specific amount of
required cart storage space shall be determined as part of the site plan
review. When required, cart storage areas shall not occupy required off-street
parking space, shall be clearly delineated, and shall include facilities for
cart confinement.
   (Q)   Drive-through windows. Service windows shall be allowed subject to the
following requirements:
      (1)   Stacking. Not less than 180 feet of segregated automobile stacking
lane shall be provided for the service window, unless specifically otherwise
approved by the City Engineer.
      (2)   Traffic control. The stacking lane and its access shall be designed
to control traffic in a manner to protect the pedestrians, buildings, and green
area on the site.
      (3)   Use of street. No part of the public street or boulevard may be
used for stacking of automobiles.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020; Am. Ord.
2020-03, passed 6-1-2020)
§ 154.225 NUMBER OF REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES.
   The minimum number of required off-street parking spaces for the following
uses shall be as follows:
   (A)   Residential uses.
      (1)   Single-family dwelling. Two parking spaces for each dwelling unit,
plus 1 additional parking space if roomers are accommodated. A minimum of a 1-
car garage, expandable to a 2-car garage while meeting required yard
requirements is required at the time of constructing the dwelling in RR, R-l,
and R-2 Districts.
      (2)   Cluster-housing. Two parking spaces per dwelling unit. A minimum of
a 1-car garage, expandable to a 2-car garage while meeting required yard
requirements is required at the time of constructing the dwelling.
      (3)   Two-family dwelling. Two parking spaces per dwelling unit. A
minimum of a 1-car garage, expandable to a 2-car garage while meeting required
yard requirements is required at the time of constructing the dwelling.
      (4)   Manufactured home. Two parking spaces per manufactured home unit;
however, the spaces may be in tandem.
      (5)   Multiple dwelling. Two parking spaces per dwelling unit.
      (6)   Senior citizen housing. One parking space per dwelling unit and
sufficient expansion area (proof of parking) for an additional 0.2 parking
spaces per dwelling unit.
      (7)   Rooming house. Two parking spaces for each 3 persons for whom
sleeping accommodations are provided.
      (8)   Bed and breakfasts and residential short term rental units. Two
parking spaces plus 1 for each room to be rented out.
      (9)   Group family day care center. Two parking spaces for every 5
program participants as licensed by the State of Minnesota.
      (10)   Group day care, nursery school. Five parking spaces plus 1 for
each 5 program participants based on the facility’s licensed capacity.
      (11)   State licensed residential facility. Two parking spaces for each 5
beds offered for residence purposes.
      (12)   Nursing home. Five parking spaces plus 1 for each 5 beds offered
for residence purposes.
      (13)   Assisted living facilities. 0.5 parking spaces per dwelling unit
plus 1 parking space for each employee on the largest shift.
   (B)   Institutional uses.
      (1)   Community centers. Parking shall be based on the uses within the
building.
      (2)   Hospitals. One parking space for each 350 square feet of gross
floor area.
      (3)   Libraries, museums, art gallery. At least 1 for each 300 square
feet of floor area in the principal structure.
      (4)   Playgrounds and play fields. At least 2 parking spaces per acre for
playgrounds and 40 parking spaces for each play field. When a public recreation
site has more than 1 use designation, the required parking spaces must be
determined for each use separately. The sum of those use requirements shall be
the total number of spaces required.
      (5)   Golf course. At least 2 parking spaces for each golf hole plus 1
space for each 200 square feet of locker rooms and club rooms. If the club
house contains dining or bar facilities, the parking requirements shall be the
same as for a restaurant.
      (6)   Archery or golf driving range. One parking space for each target or
driving tee.
      (7)   Miniature golf. 1.5 parking spaces per golf hole.
      (8)   Police/fire stations. One space for each 250 square feet of floor
area plus 1 for each vehicle customarily kept on the premises.
      (9)   Post offices, parcel delivery service. Ten parking spaces plus 1
parking space for each 500 square feet of floor area devoted to office,
processing, or service plus 1 space for each vehicle customarily kept on the
premises.
      (10)   Religious institutions. One parking space for each 3 seats based
on the design capacity of the main assembly hall. Up to 50% of the required
parking can be provided through a non-exclusive written agreement with the
owner of another property located within 750 feet of an entrance to the
religious institution which authorizes parking during times of worship or
events conducted at the religious facility at times other than usual business
hours on property which is an off-street parking lot which meet the design
requirements of this section and satisfies the parking requirements for the use
of the other property during ordinary business hours during the usual work
week.
      (11)   School - preschool through junior high. At least 2 parking spaces
for each classroom.
      (12)   School - high school through college. At least 1 parking space for
each 5 students based on design capacity plus 1 for each 2 classrooms.
   (C)   Commercial uses.
      (1)   Animal hospitals and kennels. One parking space for each 200 square
feet of floor area, but not less than 5 spaces.
      (2)   Automobile service station or automotive service center. Eight
parking spaces plus 4 additional parking spaces for each service stall. A
maximum of 25% of the required parking may be at the pump islands. Convenience
store, grocery store or any other use require additional parking determined by
the parking requirements for those other uses specified in this section.
      (3)   Bakery, café, delicatessen, and food service. One parking space for
each 25 square feet of customer floor area.
      (4)   Bed and breakfasts and residential short term rental units. Two
spaces plus 1 space for each room for rent. No required parking may be located
in the front yard, nor shall the parking area exceed 50% of the rear yard.
      (5)   Bowling alley. Five parking spaces for each alley. Other uses
commonly associated with bowling alleys, such as restaurants and game room
space, will require additional parking and loading spaces, the number of which
shall be determined by the parking requirements for those other uses specified
in this section.
      (6)   Business/trade schools. One parking space per student, calculated
by reference to the design of the school structure plus 1 space for each
classroom.
      (7)   Clubs and lodges. One parking space for each 3 seats, calculated by
reference to the design capacity of the meeting hall plus 1 parking space for
every 25 square feet of customer space in the dining and bar areas.
      (8)   Convention/exhibition hall and dance hall. One parking space for
each 3 seats, calculated by reference to the design capacity of the meeting
hall.
      (9)   Country club. Twenty parking spaces plus 1 space for each 200
square feet of floor area for locker rooms and club rooms; plus 1 parking space
for each 25 square feet of customer area for the dining area; and 1 parking
space for each 20 square feet of bar area.
      (10)   Educational facility; school for the arts. One space per classroom
and other rooms used by students and faculty for educational purposes; plus 1
space per 5 students based on the maximum number of students attending classes
at any 1 time, or 1 space per 300 square feet of gross floor area, whichever is
less.
      (11)   Funeral home. One parking space for each 5 seats plus 1 parking
space for each 250 square feet of floor area not used for seating. If fixed
seats are not provided, the requirement shall be 1 space for every 35 square
feet of seating area.
      (12)   General retail sales and service.  One parking space for each 200
square feet of gross floor area.
      (13)   Group day care, nursery school.  Five parking spaces plus 1 for
each 5 program participants, based on the facility’s licensed capacity.
      (14)   Health and medical, including medical clinic, chiropractic, dental
office, medical office, optometrist office, pharmacy, and therapeutic massage
facility. One parking space for each 200 square feet of floor area, but not
less than 5 spaces.
      (15)   Hotel/motel. 1.5 spaces for each dwelling unit, guest room, or
hotel room. Any other use, such as restaurant and conference space, requires
additional parking and loading spaces determined by the parking requirements
for those other uses specified in this section.
      (16)   Offices. One parking space for every 250 square feet of floor
area.
      (17)   Open sales or rental lots. One parking space for each 2,500 square
feet of land to be used for sales and display area.
      (18)   Pool halls, video arcades.  One parking space for each 25 square
feet of customer area.
      (19)   Printing process. One parking space for each 100 square feet of
customer floor area.
      (20)   Professional services. One parking space for every 250 square feet
of floor area.
      (21)   Restaurants.
         (a)   Class I and II (sit down, with or without liquor).  One off-
street parking space for each 50 square feet of gross floor area.
         (b)   Class III (fast-food or drive-in restaurants).  One off-street
parking space for each 75 square feet of gross floor area.
      (22)   Retail sales and wholesale of edible cannabinoid products and
cannabis products. One parking space for each 200 square feet of gross floor
area if such sales are the permitted, not accessory, use of the business.
      (23)   Shopping centers. One parking space for each 200 square feet of
floor area.
      (24)   Skating rink or public auction house. Fifty parking spaces, plus 1
additional space for each 100 square feet of floor space in excess of 2,000
square feet.
      (25)   Sports/health clubs, culture studio, swimming pool. One parking
space for every 200 square feet of non-court area, plus 2 parking spaces per
tennis or racquet ball court and 1 parking space for each 50 square feet of
deck area for a swimming pool.
      (26)   Studios. One parking space for each 400 square feet of floor area.
      (27)   Theater, auditorium, assembly hall, meeting hall. One parking
space for each 3 seats of design capacity.
      (28)   Tobacco sales.  One parking space for each 200 square feet of
gross floor area.
   (D)   Industrial uses.
      (1)   The manufacturing, fabricating or processing of a product or
material. Ten parking spaces or 1 space for each 500 square feet of structure,
exclusive of office and warehouse space which shall be calculated separately
according to the parking requirements for those other uses specified in this
section, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Auto service center. Four parking spaces for each service bay.
      (3)   Outdoor storage. One parking space shall be provided for each 3,000
square feet of land devoted to outside storage.
      (4)   Mini self-storage facility. One space for each 5,000 square feet of
floor area.
      (5)   Showrooms. One parking space for every 400 square feet of floor
area.
      (6)   Warehouse, storage, handling of bulk goods, cannabis manufacturing,
transporter, and testing facility. One space for each 1,000 square feet of
floor area.
      (7)   Landscaper services and contractors. Ten parking spaces or 1 space
for each 500 square feet of structure, exclusive of office and warehouse space
which shall be calculated separately according to the parking requirements for
those other uses specified in this section, whichever is greater.
      (8)   Indoor gun range. Shall be 2 parking spaces for each firing lane
and 10 parking spaces per instructional classroom, if provided; plus parking
requirements for office and/or retail.
   (E)   Neighborhood Commercial District (C-1) and Central Business District
(C-2). Required parking for commercial uses located in the C-1 zoning district
and all uses in the C-2 zoning district shall be determined by the Council
following review by the Planning Commission. Review and approval shall be based
on:
      (1)   The number of off-street parking spaces to be provided.
      (2)   The number and accessibility of on-street parking in the area.
      (3)   Provisions made by the owner or tenant for joint or shared parking.
      (4)   Assessment or pending assessment for 1 or more parking spaces under
state statutes in which case the number of parking spaces forming the basis for
such assessment shall constitute an equal number of spaces for computing off-
street parking requirements.
      (5)   Other factors affecting the need for off-street parking.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-09, passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord.
2016-10, passed 12-5-2016; Am. Ord. 2018-10, passed 7-2-2018; Am. Ord. 2021-07,
passed 5-17-2021; Am. Ord. 2023-01, passed 2-13-2023; Am. Ord. 2023-03, passed
8-28-2023; Am. Ord. 2023-04, passed 8-28-2023; Am. Ord. 2024-09, passed - -)
§ 154.226 BONUSES.
   If 50% or more spaces in the R-4 District are placed in or under the
proposed principal structure or totally underground, the following bonuses
shall apply:
   (A)   Three hundred square feet shall be added as lot area for each space so
placed to determine the allowable square footage of building or number of
dwelling units on the site.
   (B)   The height added to the principal structure by any floor that is
totally used for parking in or under the principal structure shall not be
included to determine the size of the required yards.
   (C)   Maximum bonuses. The maximum floor area which may be added to a
building by placing parking spaces in or under the principal structure shall be
equal to not more than 1/3 the net floor area or 1/3 the number of dwelling
units, whichever is applicable.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.227 BICYCLE AND MOTORCYCLE PARKING.
   Provisions shall be made for the off-street parking of bicycles in all
multiple-family and nonresidential developments and uses.
   (A)   The total parking requirement is 1 space for each 50 off-street
parking spaces required with at least 15% designed to accommodate motorcycles.
   (B)   The bicycle parking spaces shall be equipped with bicycle racks.
   (C)   The bicycle parking shall be located so that it is as close to the
main building as the nearest parking space. Motorcycle parking shall be located
within 150 feet of the closest parking space to the main building.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.228 OFF-STREET LOADING FACILITIES.
   The off-street loading requirement for non-residential buildings with less
than 200,000 square feet may be satisfied by the designation of a loading zone
area on the site. This loading zone area shall be separate from any required
off-street parking area and access to the loading zone area shall be provided
which does not conflict with automobile circulation to, from, or within the
site. One loading dock shall be provided for non-residential buildings over
20,000 square feet in floor area.
   (A)   A "loading facility" includes the dock, the berth for the vehicle,
maneuvering areas, and the necessary screening walls.
   (B)   Location. All loading berth curb cuts shall be located 25 feet or more
from the intersection of 2 street rights-of-way. No loading berth shall be
located less than 50 feet from a residential district unless it is entirely
within a building. Loading facilities shall not occupy the required front yard.
   (C)   Size. A loading dock shall have a berth area at least 12 feet wide and
55 feet long.
   (D)   Access. Each loading berth location shall permit vehicular access to a
street or public alley in a manner which will least interfere with traffic.
   (E)   Surfacing. All loading facilities and access ways shall be paved with
bituminous or concrete paving to control the dust and drainage.
   (F)   Screening. All berths shall be screened from view with landscaped yard
from property in a residential district and from the adjoining streets.
Materials used shall provide screening which is a minimum of 7 feet high when
installed. Walls shall be designed to be harmonious with the principal
structure.
   (G)   Accessory use. No required loading berth or access drive shall be used
for the storage of goods or inoperable vehicles. It may not be included as a
part of the space necessary to meet the off-street parking requirements.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.229 PARKING DEFERMENT.
   The city may allow a reduction in the number of required parking stalls
provided that:
   (A)   The zoning for the property in which the request is made is industrial
(I-1 or I-2).
   (B)   The proposed use will have a peak parking demand less than the
required parking under §
154.225. Factors to be considered when reviewing the proposed parking demand
shall include, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Size of building;
      (2)   Size of the property;
      (3)   Type and use;
      (4)   Number of employees;
      (5)   Projected volume and turnover of customer traffic;
      (6)   Projected frequency and volume of delivery or service vehicles;
      (7)   Number of company owned vehicles; or
      (8)   Storage of vehicles on-site.
   (C)   Requests for parking reduction shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission and approved by the City Council as part of the site plan review
process.
   (D)   In no case shall the amount of parking provided be less than ½ the
amount of parking required under this title.
   (E)   The site has sufficient property under the same ownership to
accommodate the expansion of the parking facilities to meet the minimum
requirements of this section should the parking demand exceed on-site supply.
   (F)   On-site parking shall only occur in areas designated and constructed
for parking in accordance with this section.
   (G)   The applicant and city enter into a development agreement, to be
recorded against the subject property, which includes a clause requiring the
owner to install the additional parking stalls upon a finding by the City
Council that such additional parking stalls are necessary to accommodate the
use.
   (H)   If approved, city staff may conduct reviews of the parking reduction
criteria and traffic patterns on-site from time to time. Upon this review,
should city staff determine it necessary to install the additional parking
notification will be made to the property owner and a formal recommendation
will be made to the City Council.
   (I)   A change in use will necessitate compliance with the applicable
parking standard identified in this section.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.230 PROOF OF PARKING.
   In addition to §
154.229 and subject to review, the city may reduce the number of required off-
street parking spaces in other districts when the applicant can demonstrate in
documented form a need which is less than required. In such situations, the
city shall require a site plan illustrating "Proof of Parking" availability.
The plan shall illustrate where the additional parking will be located and how
the traffic circulation will coordinate with the site plan and existing parking
lot should use or needs change. The Planning Commission shall also consider:
   (A)   The on street parking available by the site.
   (B)   The expected usage of the site and parking demand.
   (C)   Surrounding land uses and zoning districts.
   (D)   The provisions of this section affecting the parking lot or loading
area.
   (E)   Any other associated aspect that the Planning Commission deems
necessary to evaluate the request.
   (F)   The applicant shall install the additional required off-street parking
within 6 months of written notification by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
SIGNS
§ 154.241 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish minimum
requirements, to protect the public health, safety, morals, comfort and general
welfare of the people through regulations governing all signs. The sign
regulations are intended to permit an efficient, effective, and aesthetic means
to maintain an attractive and appealing appearance in the community, including
appearance along streets and on property used for residential, commercial,
industrial, institutional, and public development and the air space above and
between such developments. These regulations are intended to permit adequate
signage for effective communication while minimizing or preventing visual
clutter and visual pollution which can be caused by signage. It is not the
purpose or intent of this sign subchapter to regulate the message displayed on
any sign; nor is it the purpose or intent of this subchapter to regulate any
building design or any display not defined as a sign, or any sign which cannot
be viewed from outside a building. The purpose and intent of this subchapter is
to:
      (1)   Regulate the number, location, size, type, illumination, and other
physical characteristics of signs within the city in order to promote the
public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   Maintain, enhance, and improve the aesthetic environment of the
city by preventing visual clutter that is harmful to the appearance of the
community.
      (3)   Improve the visual appearance of the city while providing for
effective means of communication, consistent with constitutional guarantees and
the city's goals of public safety and aesthetics.
      (4)   Provide for fair and consistent enforcement of the sign regulations
set forth herein under the zoning authority of the city.
   (B)   Findings. The City Council hereby finds as follows:
      (1)   Exterior signs have a substantial impact on the character and
quality of the environment.
      (2)   Signs provide an important medium through which individuals may
convey a variety of messages.
      (3)   Signs can create traffic hazards, aesthetic concerns and detriments
to property values, thereby threatening the public health, safety and welfare.
      (4)   The city's zoning regulations include the regulation of signs in an
effort to provide adequate means of expression and to promote the economic
viability of the business community, while protecting the city and its citizens
from a proliferation of signs of a type, size, location and character that
would adversely impact upon the aesthetics of the community and threaten the
health, safety and welfare of the community. The regulation of the physical
characteristics of signs within the city has had a positive impact on traffic
safety and the appearance of the community.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.242 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following signs are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter:
   (A)   Signs up to 8 square feet in size.
   (B)   Temporary signs pertaining only to a property upon which it is
displayed. Such signs shall not exceed 10 square feet for residential property
or 40 square feet for other properties. One sign shall be permitted for each
lot and must be removed within 30 days.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.243 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited in the zoning districts, in the manner
prescribed as follows:
   (A)   Flashing signs and signs with zooming, twinkling, sparking, or
flashing illumination are prohibited in all districts.
   (B)   All signs are prohibited on or over the public right-of-way or right-
of-way easement, unless permitted by the City Council or governing roadway
jurisdiction.
   (C)   Illuminated signs emitting a beam consisting of a collection or
concentration of rays of light are prohibited in all districts. This includes,
but is not limited to, search lights, beacons and strobe lights.
   (D)   Roof top signs are prohibited in all districts.
   (E)   Rotating signs are prohibited in all districts.
   (F)   Billboards are prohibited in all districts.
   (G)   Off-premises commercial signs are prohibited in all districts.
   (H)   No sign shall be allowed that prevents ingress or egress from any
door, window, or fire escape.
   (I)   Signs shall not resemble, imitate, or approximate the shape, size,
form, or color of railroad or traffic signs, signals, or devices. No sign shall
be placed so as to distract or interfere with traffic visibility or traffic
control.
   (J)   Mobile signs.
   (K)   Signs shall only be allowed to be attached to fences in residentially
zoned districts provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The sign is attached to a permanent, permitted fence.
      (2)   The sign is attached by the owner of the property or by the written
permission of the owner.
      (3)   The size of the sign shall not exceed the surface area or
dimensions of the fence to which it is attached.
      (4)   No sign attached to a fence shall be illuminated.
      (5)   No more than 1 temporary sign/banner is allowed on a fence at any 1
time, per individual street frontage.
      (6)   The maximum size of permanent signage attached to a fence in a
residential district shall not exceed 8 square feet.
      (7)   The maximum aggregate sign area for temporary signs §
154.248(B) attached to fences is as follows:
         (a)   Residential district lots to up to 21,780 square feet: 10 square
feet of signage.
         (b)   Residential district lots over 21,780 square feet: 32 square
feet of signage.
         (c)   Residential district lots over 100,000 square feet may display
up to 500 square feet of temporary signage on a fence, with the maximum square
footage of any 1 sign not to exceed 250 square feet, provided the conditions of
a conditional use permit are met, the signs are not visible from the public
right-of-way, and the signs do not constitute a public hazard or safety
concern.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.244 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Signs that are not prohibited signs are a permitted accessory use in all
districts, subject to the following regulations and the standards set forth in
TABLE A SIGN HEIGHT AND AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All signs along state and federal highways shall conform to state and
federal sign regulations.
   (B)   Sign maintenance.
      (1)   Painting. The owner of any sign shall be required to have such a
sign properly painted including all parts and supports of the sign, unless such
parts or supports are galvanized or otherwise treated to prevent rust. This
shall also apply to murals.
      (2)   Area around signs. The owner, or lessee, of any sign or the owner
of the land on which the sign is located shall keep the grass, weeds or other
growth cut and the area between the sign and the street and the area within 6
feet from the ends of the sign, free from refuse.
      (3)   Obsolete signs. Any sign which no longer advertises a bona fide
business conducted or a product sold shall be taken down and removed by the
owner, agent, or person having the beneficial use of the building or land upon
which the sign may be found, within 10 days after written notice from the
Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   Unsafe or dangerous signs. Any sign which becomes structurally
unsafe or endangers the safety of a building or premises or endangers the
public safety shall be considered a public nuisance and shall be taken down and
removed by the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the
building, structure or land upon which the sign is located, within 10 days
after written notification from the Zoning Administrator.
   (C)   Murals are permitted in all districts.
   (D)   Parking areas. Signs shall not be placed in or restrict access to
required parking spaces or loading berths.
   (E)   Sign as a structure. A sign is a structure or a part of a structure
for the purpose of applying yard regulations.
   (F)   Symbols, statues, sculptures and integrated architectural features on
buildings may be illuminated provided the direct source of light is not visible
from the public right-of-way or adjacent residential property.
   (G)   Freestanding signs. Not more than 1 commercial-content based free
standing sign shall be permitted on an individual street frontage on a lot.
   (H)   Flags may be displayed upon a lot. Flag pole height must comply with
the height regulations of the applicable zoning district. No more than 3 flags
shall be displayed in a residential district.
   (I)   No sign shall have more than 2 faces.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.245 SIGN HEIGHT AND AREA REQUIREMENT.
   The height of the sign shall be measured from the existing grade except for
the following: if elevations of the centerline of the nearest frontage street
are provided by the sign applicant, this point of elevation may be used rather
than existing grade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1981.jpg]
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.246 CALCULATION OF SIGN AREA.
   (A)   For free-standing signs, the area within the sign frame shall be used
to calculate the square footage.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1983.jpg]
   (B)   Square footage of signs mounted directly on a wall, window, or other
structural surface without a sign frame shall be determined by drawing a box
around the outermost periphery of letters or graphics. The square footage shall
be that of the box surrounding the said letters or graphics.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1985.jpg]
   (C)   Each surface used to display a message or to attract attention shall
be measured as a separate sign and shall be calculated in the overall square
footage.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.247 SETBACKS.
   (A)   All commercial signs must comply with the accessory structure setback
yard regulations applicable to that zoning district; provided that a sign and
its superstructure may extend into the required setback yard areas a distance
not to exceed 18 inches, in the C-2 Central Business District. Signs can be
placed on the face of legally existing canopies or on the front or side walls
of legally constructed buildings which do not meet the current ordinance
requirements relative to front and side yards.
   (B)   All signs in the R-1, R-2 and R-3 Districts shall be set back a
minimum of 5 feet from all property lines. In the C-1, C-2, I-1 and I-
2 Districts free-standing or pole signs shall be setback a minimum of 5 feet
from the property line and a minimum of either 5 feet or a distance equal to
the height of the sign, whichever is greater, from the side property lines.
Signs attached to fences in the residential district may encroach within the
required setback provided they do not obstruct vision at an intersection or
otherwise constitute a hazard to public safety.
   (C)   Signs on corner lots shall be setback 25 feet from the edge of the
rights-of-way of intersecting streets so as to preserve the sight triangle. The
sight triangle is the area of visibility required on a corner to allow for the
safe operation of vehicles, pedestrians and cyclists in the proximity of
intersecting streets, sidewalks and bicycle paths. The city may require a
greater setback because of public safety reasons that may include, but not be
limited to, the following concerns: vehicle sight-distances, distance from an
intersection, or function of the adjoining right-of-way. No sign shall be
placed as to obstruct vision at an intersection or to otherwise constitute a
hazard to public safety.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1987.jpg]
   (D)   No sign shall be located closer than 5 feet from a residentially zoned
property.
   (E)   No sign shall be placed on a public right-of-way or any publicly owned
property including boulevard trees and utility poles.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.248 SPECIAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Project information signs, also known as construction signs, which
denote the architect, engineer, contractor or owners when placed upon a work
site. Such signs shall be removed within 10 days after completion of
construction. Project information or construction signs are regulated as
follows:
      (1)   Project information or construction signs less than 40 square feet
per face and less than 10 feet in height are exempt from the setback
requirement.
      (2)   Project information or construction signs are exempt from the total
sign area requirements.
      (3)   Project information or construction signs shall be removed prior to
the issuance of the final occupancy permit.
   (B)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs are regulated as follows:
      (1)   Up to 4 temporary signs may be permitted on a lot for up to 30 days
each in any calendar year. Temporary political signs, construction signs and
real estate signs are exempt from these limitations.
      (2)   Temporary signs which are 10 square feet or smaller on residential
properties or 40 square feet or less on other properties shall not require a
sign permit provided there is only 1 sign per property and it is displayed for
30 days or less. All other temporary signs shall require a temporary sign
permit. The maximum square footage of all temporary signs on a parcel shall not
exceed 60 square feet, unless a conditional use permit is granted for greater
square footage.
      (3)   The advertisement contained on any temporary sign shall pertain
only to the business or activity conducted on or within the premises on which
such sign is erected or maintained.
      (4)   Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.
      (5)   Banners placed on non-residential private property:
         (a)   Grand openings: Up to 2 temporary banners, with a total 30
square feet each may be displayed for up to 30 days, through the issuance of a
temporary sign permit.
         (b)   Special events: In addition to banners for grand openings, up to
2 banners for special events may be displayed, provided they do not exceed a
total of 30 square feet each in size and are displayed for no more than 60 days
in aggregate per calendar year. The banners must be affixed to a building or in
compliance with lot and setback requirements and obtain a temporary sign
permit.
         (c)   Banners in non-residential zoning districts: One banner per
street frontage, with a maximum of 2 banners is permitted in non-residential
zoning districts provided they are no more than 30 square feet each and do not
cover significant architectural features on buildings. They may be displayed
for up to 30 days, through the issuance of a temporary sign permit.
   (C)   Directional signs. A directional sign placed in the setback shall not
exceed 8 square feet in sign area per face or 42 inches in height and shall not
display any advertising. Trailblazing signs to provide directions to public
institutions may be permitted upon recommendation of the Planning Commission
and approval of the City Council.
   (D)   MNDOT logo signs, general motorized signs and/or directional signs.
Freestanding signs located in right-of-way or on properties near the
intersections of Highway 169 which identify tourist-oriented businesses such as
gasoline service stations, restaurants, motels and regional commercial uses, as
permitted by M.S. §§ 160.292 through 160.297. These signs, and MNDOT required
trailblazing signs, may be allowed along TH 282 and Highway 21, only as an
extension of MNDOT requirements, in locations designated by MNDOT, with the
written permission of the land owner. Necessary permits shall be obtained from
MNDOT prior to installation of the signs.
   (E)   Subdivision monument signs. A maximum of 2 monument signs per entrance
into any residential or real estate development is permitted. These signs shall
not exceed 8 feet in height or 25 square feet per side, and must be set back at
least 10 feet from the right-of-way. Monument signs shall not be included in
the calculation of aggregate sign area for any lot. A monument sign may be
externally illuminated. Subdivision monument signs shall be reviewed with the
preliminary plat approval, and on-going ownership and maintenance of the sign
shall be specified as a condition of approval.
   (F)   Subdivision real estate signs. A temporary freestanding sign for the
purpose of announcing or promoting of a new residential, commercial or
industrial project development is allowed, provided that each residential
project contains at least 6 dwellings or lots. One such sign is permitted for
each major thoroughfare the project abuts, provided said sign is located on the
project development property. Signs shall be setback at least 130 feet from any
preexisting structure. The sign is to be removed within 2 years of signing of
the final plat or when the project is 75% sold out or rented, whichever is
sooner; and each sign shall not exceed the following size limitations: Project
area under 20 acres may have a sign up to 48 square feet. Project areas over 20
acres may have a sign up to 100 square feet.
   (G)   Electronic message boards or dynamic signs. All electronic message
boards (EMBs) must meet all the requirements of this section.
      (1)   The maximum height of any freestanding EMB that is not attached to
or part of a multipart freestanding sign is 8 feet. Where an EMB is attached to
or part of a multi-part freestanding sign, the maximum sign height will be
determined according to the maximum permissible height of the sign type of
which the EMB is a part.
      (2)   The maximum area of an EMB sign shall not exceed 50% of the
allowable sign square footage. As an EMB sign is a form of reader board, the
EMB sign square footage may not be coupled with any other form of reader board.
      (3)   EMBs may be used for all or part of an on-premise sign that
displays a commercial or noncommercial message. EMBs may not display off-
premises commercial advertising.
      (4)   No flashing light is allowed on any EMB.
      (5)   All EMB signs shall be antiglare. All EMBs must be equipped with an
automatic dimmer device.
      (6)   As measured at the property line, the maximum light emanation from
an EMB sign shall be no greater than 2 foot candles.
      (7)   EMB signs must not cast light on adjacent residential properties,
regardless of zoning.
      (8)   No EMB signs are allowed within the C-2, Central Business District,
or facing historic district, with the exception of a sign no greater than 2
feet long by 6 inches wide, which may be mounted inside the building. Dynamic
or electronic message signs shall not be allowed on free standing signs or
mounted on the exterior of a building in the C-2 District.
      (9)   Any malfunctioning EMB must be turned off or display a blank screen
until repaired.
      (10)   All electrical equipment used to operate or install an EMB must be
Underwriters Laboratory (UL) listed.
      (11)   All EMB signs must meet the State Electric Code.
      (12)   All EMB signs shall be kept in good operating condition and
maintained with good external appearance.
      (13)   If any non-conforming existing EMB sign is damaged so that repairs
would cost as much as 60% of the value of the sign, the sign may be repaired
only if it is brought into conformance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.249 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Within the RR, R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4 Districts the following signs are
permitted subject to the area and height limits set forth in Table A:
   (A)   One nameplate sign for each dwelling, which shall not exceed 2
surfaces. Such sign may indicate the name of the occupant, address of the
occupant, and the type of home occupation, if any.
   (B)   Permitted uses which are not residential may have 1 sign which shall
not exceed 8 square feet in area per surface except as provided in Table A.
Signs may be permitted by conditional use permit for public parks and
playground, churches, synagogues, public libraries, public museums, public art
galleries, public and parochial schools, municipal buildings, golf courses,
country clubs, community centers, colleges, universities, private schools,
hospitals, and sanitariums, based on the following design criteria and other
conditions the Council may require in its discretion:
      (1)   Size.  The size shall be proportional to the size of the facility,
need for signage, and frontage on street, location, visibility, and development
in the area. The maximum size per street frontage shall not exceed 60 square
feet per sign surface with a maximum area of 120 square feet per single sign.
      (2)   Height. No freestanding sign shall exceed 15 feet in height.
      (3)   Lighting.
         (a)   Lighting shall be indirect or it shall be backlighting.
         (b)   Exposed neon lighting, flashing illuminated, and/or rotating
illuminated signs shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Design.  Signs attached to the building shall be integrated with
the building design and architecture in terms of materials, colors, lighting
and placement; signs not attached to the buildings shall be architecturally
treated and coordinated with the principal building by use of compatible
materials and design.
      (5)   Location.  No freestanding sign shall be located less than 25 feet
from any street right-of-way line and signs under this section are not subject
to setback requirement based on building height.
      (6)   Sign purpose.  The principal purpose of the sign permitted under
this section shall be to identify the public or institutional use made of the
property.
   (C)   Subdivision monument signs are permitted, provided they meet the
conditions identified in §
154.248(E).
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.250 COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The maximum aggregate sign area in commercial districts is as follows:
      (1)   C-1, Neighborhood Commercial District Lots 10,000 square feet or
less: 2,000 square feet, with a maximum square footage for any 1 sign of 100
square feet.
      (2)   C-1, Neighborhood Commercial District Lots 10,001 square feet to
20,000 square feet: 250 square feet with a maximum square footage for any 1
sign of 150 square feet.
      (3)   C-1, Neighborhood Commercial District Lots over 20,000 square feet:
300 square feet with a maximum square footage for any 1 sign of 200 square
feet.
      (4)   C-2, Central Business District Lots 1 to 10,000 square feet: 250
square feet, with a maximum square footage for any 1 sign of 200 square feet.
      (5)   C-2, Central Business District Lots 10,001 square feet to 20,000
square feet: 300 square feet, with a maximum square footage for any 1 sign of
200 square feet.
      (6)   C-2, Central Business District Lots over 20,000 square feet: 350
square feet, with a maximum square footage for any 1 sign 300 square feet.
      (7)   C-3, Highway Commercial Lots 100,000 square feet or less in size:
400 square feet, with a maximum square footage for any 1 sign 300 square feet.
      (8)   C-3, Highway Commercial Lots over 100,000 square feet: 500 square
feet, with a maximum square footage for any 1 sign of 300 square feet.
   (B)   In addition, the following regulations shall apply to the following
signs which are permitted in commercial districts:
      (1)   Monument signs. One monument sign shall be permitted per lot or
separate building pad that has street frontage in the C-3, Highway Commercial
District, provided the sign shall not exceed 25 square feet or 8 feet in
height.
      (2)   Wall sign or canopy.
         (a)   Wall signs or canopy signs shall not exceed 10% of the wall to
which it is attached or a maximum 80 square feet, whichever is less, in the C-
1, Neighborhood Commercial and C-2, Central Business District.
         (b)   C-3, Highway Business District: A maximum of 2 square feet of
signage for every linear foot of the front of the building with a maximum 200
square feet. A maximum 1 square foot of
signage for each linear foot of building on wall that faces a street or public
entrance that is not the front, with a maximum 100 square feet.
         (c)   For business complexes: A maximum 2 square feet per linear foot
of building wall with a maximum 200 square feet per tenant, whichever is less
for a front wall or 1 square foot per linear foot of building with maximum 100
square feet per tenant, whichever is less for a wall sign on a side other than
the front.
      (3)   Free standing signs.
         (a)   Free-standing signs may be allowed in the C-1, Neighborhood
Commercial District, provided the conditions of a conditional use permit are
met. The maximum free-standing sign in the C-1 District shall be 12 square feet
per sign face with a maximum 25 feet in height.
         (b)   Free-standing signs may be allowed in the C-2, Central Business
District, provided the conditions of a conditional use permit are met. The
maximum free-standing sign in the C-2 District shall be 12 square feet per sign
face with a maximum 25 feet in height.
         (c)   C-3, Highway Commercial District:
            1.   A maximum 150 square feet per side for double sided signs with
a maximum 25 feet in height.
            2.   One sign is allowed per lot; except that business complexes
shall be allowed 1 sign per street frontage.
            3.   Gas stations are allowed an additional canopy sign not to
exceed 100 square feet.
      (4)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
when cut into or attached to any masonry surface or incombustible material,
provided the sign does not exceed 6 square feet in area.
      (5)   Window signs. Window signs shall not occupy more than 50% of the
window area, unless approved through a conditional use permit. Other permanent
signs located on or within building windows shall not occupy more than 10% of
the available window area. Total signage within any window shall not be greater
than 50% of the available window area, unless approved through a conditional
use permit. Window signs shall be considered the same as wall signs and count
toward the total square footage allowed under this section.
      (6)   In the C-2, Central Business District and C-3, Highway Commercial
District portable or sandwich signs may be allowed provided they are directly
in front of the establishment during hours of operation only, provided they
allow 4 feet of clearance on a sidewalk and must not interfere with pedestrian
traffic.
      (7)   Projecting awnings with signs.
         (a)   Projecting awnings are permitted in the C-1, Neighborhood
Commercial and C-2, Central Business District provided there is a minimum 8
feet of clearance from the bottom of the awning to the sidewalk or ground below
and it projects no more than 3 feet. The maximum square footage of signage on
an awning shall be 12 square feet.
         (b)   Projecting awnings are permitted in the C-3, Highway Commercial
District provided there is a minimum 8 feet of clearance from the bottom of the
awning to the sidewalk or ground below and it projects no more than 3 feet. The
maximum square footage of signage on an awning shall be 10% of the area it is
attached or a maximum 80 square feet, whichever is less.
   (C)   In the C-2, Central Business District, signs shall be subject to the
Central Business District Design Standards and reviewed by the Zoning
Administrator to ensure compatibility with the color palette.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.251 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The maximum aggregate sign area in industrial districts is as follows:
      (1)   Industrial district lots 20,000 square feet or less in size: 350
square feet, with a maximum square footage for any 1 sign 300 square feet.
      (2)   Industrial district lots over 20,000 square feet in size: 400
square feet, with a maximum square footage for any 1 sign 300 square feet.
   (B)   In addition, the following regulations shall apply to the following
signs which are permitted in industrial districts:
      (1)   Canopy sign. Canopy signs shall not exceed 10% of the wall to which
it is attached or a maximum 80 square feet, whichever is less.
      (2)   Monument signs.  One monument sign shall be permitted per lot or
separate building pad that has street frontage in an industrial district,
provided the sign shall not exceed 25 square feet or 8 feet in height.
      (3)   Wall signs. Wall signs shall not exceed 20% of wall area where sign
is located or a maximum 150 square feet, whichever is less.
      (4)   Free standing signs. One free standing sign shall be allowed per
lot of building pad. The sign shall not exceed 150 square feet per side with a
maximum 25 feet in height.
      (5)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of erection
when cut into or attached to any masonry surface or incombustible material,
provided the sign does not exceed 6 square feet in area.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.252 MULTI-TENANT BUILDING.
   The property owner shall be responsible for allocating the allowable sign
area among the tenants of multi-tenant buildings. In the event that the owner
does not allocate the sign area, the city may do so based on the relative floor
area or tenant frontage.
   (A)   Unified shopping center/multiple-tenant buildings. In a unified
shopping center or multiple-tenant building, the total surface area of all
individual signs on the buildings shall not exceed the maximum square footage
requirements outlined in Table A. As a part of this maximum square footage the
center or building may erect 1 freestanding or monument sign, which identifies
the name and location of the building and its tenants. For shopping centers or
multiple tenant buildings, 1 freestanding or monument sign may be permitted per
street right-of-way, provided it meets the requirements of maximum surface area
and height outlined in Table A.
      (1)   Master sign plan. No permit shall be issued for an individual sign
requiring a permit in a commercial and/or industrial zoning district where more
than 1 business or industry will be located until a master signage plan has
been approved by the city. The master signage plan is intended to control total
sign area and sign placement so as to help eliminate incongruities as tenants/
occupants change.
      (2)   The owner/agent proposing a commercial or industrial development
plan, site or plot plan, and/or planned unit development with more than 1
individual business or tenant any shall submit a master signage plan containing
the following information:
         (a)   A scaled site plan showing location of buildings, parking lots,
driveways and landscaped areas and an accurate indication on the site plan of
the proposed location of present and future signs of any type, whether
requiring a permit or not.
         (b)   Scaled color drawings clearly showing location of sign on
building elevation.
         (c)   Computation of the maximum total sign area, the maximum area for
individual signs and the height of signs.
         (d)   The maximum numbers of signs affixed to a building by each
business within the building shall be controlled by the master signage plan.
         (e)   Other provisions of the plan may contain such other restrictions
as the owner of the development or building may reasonably determine.
         (f)   The plan shall be signed by all owners or their authorized
agents in such form as required by the city or as a part of applicable and
active restrictive covenants.
         (g)   A master signage plan may be amended by filing administratively
a new master signage plan that conforms to all requirements of this chapter.
         (h)   After approval of a master signage plan, no sign shall be
erected, placed, painted or maintained, except in conformance with approved
master signage plan and such plan may be enforced in the same way as provisions
of this chapter. In case of any conflict between the provisions of such a plan
and this Code, the Code shall govern.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.253 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   For property located in a PUD District, signs shall be permitted and
regulated according to the final PUD plan and related documents. If the PUD
plan does not contain an approved sign plan, the signs shall be regulated by
the zoning district regulations existing on such property immediately prior to
the zoning change on said property to PUD District.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.254 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every person shall obtain from the city a permit before erecting,
placing, rebuilding, reconstructing, structurally altering, enlarging or
relocating any sign or awning which is not specifically exempted by these
regulations from this permit requirement. An application for a permit shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator in accordance with the permit procedures
of the City Code and the requirements of this section. The application shall
include the information required by the form provided by the city and shall be
accompanied by appropriate documents and plan or plans drawn to scale which
legibly reflect the following:
      (1)   The location of proposed and existing signs in relation to property
lines and existing and proposed building based upon a site plan approved by the
city which accurately reflects current conditions on the property.
      (2)   The design, full dimensions, and specifications including the
method of construction, and attachment to a building or placement in the
ground.
      (3)   Stress calculations prepared by a certified engineer, where
applicable, indicating that the structure's design for dead load and wind
pressure in any direction in the amount required by regulations.
      (4)   Such other information as the Zoning Administrator of Building
Inspector may be required to show full compliance with this chapter and other
applicable laws or codes of the city. The Zoning Administrator may waive
requirements for technical information specified above where such information
is not necessary to the determination of compliance.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall, upon approval, issue a written permit
authorizing the proposed sign and related work. The permit shall, where
applicable, specify the duration of the permit and any special conditions or
requirements related to the construction of the sign. Expiration and renewal of
permits shall be in accordance with the provisions of the Minnesota State
Building Code for building permits.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.255 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All signs shall be constructed and maintained in a manner where they
will be safe to the general public.
   (B)   All permanent signs shall be constructed to meet International
Building Code standard for wind resistance, dead loads, wind loads and other
applicable sections of the International Building Code. Signs shall be rigidly
suspended by means of fastening or support so as not to be free swinging or a
menace to persons or property.
   (C)   All electrical wiring of signs shall comply with the provisions of the
Minnesota State Electric Code, as may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.256 NON-COMMERCIAL SPEECH.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this sign subchapter, all signs of
any size containing non-commercial speech pertaining to the election may be
posted from August 1 in any general election year until 10 days following the
general election and 13 weeks prior to any special election until 10 days
following the special election.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.257 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS: COMPLIANCE.
   It is recognized that signs exist within the zoning districts which were
lawful before this sign ordinance was enacted, which would be prohibited,
regulated or restricted under the terms of this section or future amendments.
It is the intent of this sign subchapter that nonconforming signs shall not be
enlarged upon, expanded or extended, nor be used as grounds for adding other
signs or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district. It is further the
intent of this sign subchapter to permit legal nonconforming signs existing on
the effective date of this sign subchapter, or amendments thereto, to continue
as legal nonconforming signs provided such signs are safe, are maintained so as
not to be unsightly, and have not been abandoned or removed subject to the
following provisions:
   (A)   No sign shall be enlarged or altered in a way which increases its
nonconformity. This shall not prohibit routine maintenance of the sign.
   (B)   Should such sign or sign structure be destroyed by any means to an
extent greater than 50% of its replacement cost and no building permit has been
applied for within 180 days of when the property was damaged, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Should such sign or sign structure be moved for any reason for any
distance whatsoever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the
zoning district in which it is located after it is moved.
   (D)   No existing sign devoted to a use not permitted by the Zoning
Ordinance in the zoning district in which it is located shall be enlarged,
extended, or moved except in changing the sign to a sign permitted in the
zoning district in which it is located.
   (E)   When a structure loses its nonconforming status all signs devoted to
the structure shall be removed and all signs painted directly on the structure
shall be repainted in a neutral color or a color which will harmonize with the
structure.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.258 SUBSTITUTION CLAUSE.
   The owner of any sign which is otherwise allowed by this sign subchapter may
substitute non-commercial copy in lieu of any other commercial or non-
commercial copy. This substitution of copy may be made without any additional
approval or permitting. The purpose of this provision is to prevent any
inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over non-commercial speech, or
favoring of any particular non-commercial message over any other non-commercial
message. This provision prevails over any more specific provision to the
contrary.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.259 DEFINITIONS.
   ADVERTISING SIGN. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity,
service, activity, or entertainment not necessarily conducted, sold or offered
upon the premises where such sign is located; a billboard.
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign that uses movement or change of lighting to depict
action or create a special effect or scene.
   AREA, SIGN. The area in square feet of all faces of the sign panel,
including the frame. Each message shall be considered to be a sign. If
individual letters are mounted directly on a wall or canopy without a frame,
the sign area shall be the area in square feet of the smallest rectangle which
encloses the sign message or logo. The sign area of a free standing multiple
face or volumetric sign shall be determined by totaling the area of all faces.
The maximum aggregate or total sign area on a lot shall include the sign area
of all signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1991.jpg]
   BACKLIGHTING, SIGN. An illuminated sign where the light source which
illuminates the wall behind individual sign letters is hidden from view. The
sign letters are opaque and appear as a silhouette against the lighted surface.
   BANNER. Any sign of lightweight fabric or similar material that is not
permanently mounted to a pole or a building at 1 or more edges. National flags,
state or municipal flags, or the official flag of any institution or business
shall not be considered banners.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1993.jpg]
   BEACON. Any light with 1 or more beams directed into the atmosphere or
directed at 1 or more points not on the same zone lot as the light source;
also, any light with 1 or more beams that rotate or move.
   BILLBOARD. A sign which is used for the primary purpose of selling
advertising space or a product, service, business, or event which is not
offered for sale or rent or does not take place on the premises on which the
sign is located.
   BUILDING MARKER. Any sign indicating the name of a building and date and
incidental information about its construction, which sign is cut into a masonry
surface or made of bronze or other permanent material.
   CANOPY. Any structure of canvas, other fabric, plastic, metal or wood or
other material, which is permanently attached to any exterior building wall in
any manner, intended to shield any wall, window, door, sidewalk or roadway from
sun, rain or any other element, and which is not retractable such as an awning.
   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is a part of or attached to an awning, canopy, or
other fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a door, entrance,
window, or outdoor service area. A marquee is not a canopy.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1995.jpg][https://export.amlegal.com/media/
c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/IMAGES/0-0-0-1997.jpg]
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters, or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or
the surface of the sign. A sign on which the message cycles more than 8 times
per day shall be considered an animated sign and not a changeable copy sign for
purposes of this chapter. A sign on which the only copy that changes is an
electronic or mechanical indication of time or temperature shall be considered
a "time and temperature" portion of a sign and not a changeable copy sign for
purposes of this chapter.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo, or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises, or calls attention to a business,
product, service, or other commercial activity.
   DYNAMIC SIGN. Any characteristics of a sign that appear to have movement or
that appear to change, caused by any method other than physically removing and
replacing the sign or its components, whether the apparent movement or change
is in the display, the sign structure itself, or any other component of the
sign. This includes a display that incorporates a technology or method allowing
the sign face to change the image without having to physically or mechanically
replace the sign face or its components. This also includes any rotating,
revolving, moving, flashing, blinking, or animated display or portion thereof
and any display that incorporates rotating panels, LED lights manipulated
through digital input, "digital ink" or any other method or technology that
allows the sign face to present a series of images or displays.
   DIRECT LIGHTING, SIGN. An illuminated sign where the source of light is
visible.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD. A sign or portion thereof that displays
electronic, non-pictorial, text information in which each alphanumeric
character, graphic, or symbol is defined by  a small number of matrix elements
using different combinations of light emitting diodes (LED's), fiber optics,
light bulbs or other illumination devices within the display area. Electronic
changeable message boards include computer programmable, microprocessor
controlled electronic displays. Electronic changeable message boards do not
include official time and temperature signs. Electronic changeable message
boards include projected images or messages with these characteristics onto
buildings or other objects.
   FLAG. Any fabric, banner, or bunting containing distinctive colors,
patterns, or symbols, used as a symbol of a government, political subdivision,
or other entity.
   FLASHING SIGN. Any illuminated sign which emits an intermittent or flashing
light, or creates the illusion of intermittent or flashing light by means of
animation which is not a "changing sign" as defined above.
   FREE STANDING SIGN. A sign which is self-supporting usually by uprights
placed on or in the ground.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1999.jpg]
   HEIGHT, SIGN. The distance measured perpendicularly from the highest point
of the sign structure to the grade level of the ground directly below that
point or the grade level of the center line of the nearest adjacent roadbed,
whichever grade level is higher.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2001.jpg]
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs
or outlines which are either internally or externally illuminated by an
artificial light source.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A sign, generally informational, that has a purpose
secondary to the use of the zone lot on which it is located, such as "no
parking", "entrance", "loading only," "telephone," and other similar
directives. No sign with a commercial message legible from a position off the
zone lot on which the sign is located shall be considered incidental.
   INDIRECT LIGHTING. An illuminated sign where the sign reflects the light
from an external source.
   MARQUEE. Any permanent roof-like structure projecting beyond a building or
extending along and projecting beyond the wall of the building, generally
designed and constructed to provide protection from the weather.
   MARQUEE SIGN. Any sign attached to, in any manner, or made a part of a
marquee.
   MOBILE SIGN. Signs on movable devices in which the primary purpose of the
device is to be a sign. This includes sign painted or attached to vehicles and/
or trailers where the vehicle and/or trailer is parked on a property and not
intended to be moved or where the primary purpose.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A sign that is supported by a solid base (other than poles)
such that the bottom of the sign face is 3 feet or less above grade and no air
space is visible within or between any portion of the sign display area and
sign structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2003.jpg]
   MURAL. Any mosaic, painting, or graphic art or combination thereof which is
applied to a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2005.jpg]
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign that does not conform to the requirements of
this chapter.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN. Any sign that advertises an establishment, merchandise,
service, or entertainments which is not sold, produced, manufactured, or
furnished at the property on which said sign is located, e.g. billboards, or
outdoor advertising.
   ON-PREMISE SIGN. A sign whose message is related to the premises or the
activity and use occurring on the premises on which the sign is located.
   PENNANT. Any lightweight plastic, fabric, or other material, whether or not
containing a message of any kind, suspended from a rope, wire, or string,
usually in series, designed to move in the wind. A pennant for purposes of this
chapter is considered part of temporary signage.
   PERMANENT SIGN. Any sign which is not temporary. Banners, canvas and other
lightweight fabrics or nondurable materials shall not be considered to be a
permanent sign.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign not permanently attached to the ground or other
permanent structure, or a sign designed to be transported, including, but not
limited to, signs designed to be transported by means of wheels; signs
converted to A or I-frames; menu and sandwich board signs; balloons used as
signs; umbrellas used for advertising; feather signs with or without text and
signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public
right-of-way, unless said vehicle is used in the normal day-to-day operations
of the business.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign affixed to a building or wall in such a manner
that its leading edge extends more than 6 inches beyond the surface of such
building or wall.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2009.jpg]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/IMAGES/0-0-0-2011.jpg]
   RESIDENTIAL SIGN. Any sign located in a district zoned for residential uses
that contains no commercial message except advertising for goods or services
legally offered on the premises where the sign is located, if offering such
service at such location conforms to all requirements of the zoning ordinance.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected and constructed wholly on and over the roof of a
building, supported by the roof structure and extending vertically above the
highest portion of the roof.
   ROOF SIGN, INTEGRAL. Any sign erected or constructed as an integral or
essentially integral part of a normal roof structure of any design, such that
no part of the sign extends vertically above the highest portion of the roof
and such that no part of the sign is separated from the rest of the roof by a
space of more than 6 inches.
   ROTATING SIGN. A sign or portion of a sign which in any physical part or in
total turns about on an axis, rotates, revolves or is otherwise in motion,
including without limitation a multi-vision sign.
   SIGN. Any written message, pictorial presentation, number, illustration,
decoration, flag, banner or other device that is used to announce, direct
attention to, identify, advertise or otherwise make anything known. The term
SIGN shall not include landscaping or the architectural embellishment of a
building not intended to communicate information. For purposes of maintenance
or removal, the term SIGN shall also include frames and support structure.
   SUBDIVISION MONUMENT SIGN. A permanent sign located at the entrance into any
real estate development which identifies the name of the plat or subdivision by
name.
   SUBDIVISION REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign located at the entrance into
any real estate development which identifies the name of the plat and
identifies lots for sale.
   SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign that is suspended from the under-side of a horizontal
plane surface and is supported by such surface.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign designed to be displayed for a limited period of
time. Temporary signs may be constructed of or include paper, cloth, canvas,
cardboard, inflatable objects, pennants or any other light and nondurable
material.
   TIME AND TEMPERATURE SIGN. Any sign which displays exclusively current time
and temperature information.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign attached parallel to, but within 6 inches of, a wall,
painted on the wall surface of, or erected and confined within the limits of an
outside wall of any building or structure, which is supported by such wall or
building, and which displays only 1 sign surface.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2013.jpg]
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign, pictures, symbol, or combination thereof, designed to
communicate information about an activity, business, commodity, event, sale, or
service, that is placed inside a window or upon the window panes or glass and
is visible from the exterior of the window.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2015.jpg]
 
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-02, passed 2-1- 2016)
§ 154.260 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this subchapter
relating to the regulation of signs within the city is for any reason held to
be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the validity or enforceability of
the remaining portions of this subchapter relating to the regulation of signs
within the city. The City Council hereby declares that it would have adopted
Ordinance 2013-05 in each section, subsection, sentence, or phrase thereof,
irrespective of the fact that any 1 or more sections, subsections, sentences,
clauses, or phrases be declared invalid.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
SIGN HEIGHT AND AREA REQUIREMENTS TABLE A (PDF_format)
 
         INSTITUTIONAL
         USE SIGNS     RESIDENTIAL
         (PARKS,       USES and    FREE-                                                    SQ FT MAX
         PLAYGROUNDS,  NON         STANDING MONUMENT    SUBDIVISION SUBDIVISION TEMPORARY   AGGREGATE OR   SQ FT MAX SIZE
DISTRICT CHURCHES,     RESIDENTIAL SIGN MAX SIGNS       MONUMENT    REAL ESTATE RESIDENTIAL TOTAL SIGN     FOR ANY ONE
         LIBRARIES,    USE:        HEIGHT               SIGN        SIGNS       PROPERTY    AREA           SIGN
         MUNICIPAL     PERMANENT
         BLDGS, ETC)   SIGNS
         via CUP
                                                                                            Residential:
         Max 60 sq ft.                                              Project                 8 sq ft        Residential:
         per sign                                                   Area < 20               permanent      8 sq ft
         surface, with                                              acres: 48               10 sq ft       permanent
         max 120 sq ft                                  Max 25 sq   sq. ft.                 temporary      10 sq ft
RR, R-1  per street    8 sq ft     6 ft     NA          ft and 8 ft Project     10 sq ft    Home           temporary
         frontage for                                   high        Area > 20               Occupation: 4  Institutional:
         institutional                                              acres: 100              sq ft          60 sq ft via
         uses by CUP                                                sq. ft.                 Institutional: CUP
         and 15' high                                                                       60 sq ft via
                                                                                            CUP
                                                                                            Residential:
         Max 60 sq ft.                                              Project                 8 sq ft        Residential:
         per sign                                                   Area < 20               permanent      8 sq ft
         surface, with                                              acres: 48               10 sq ft       permanent
         max 120 sq ft                                  Max 25 sq   sq. ft.                 temporary      10 sq ft
R-2      per street    8 sq ft     6 ft     NA          ft and 8 ft Project     10 sq ft    Home           temporary
         frontage for                                   high        Area > 20               Occupation: 4  Institutional:
         institutional                                              acres: 100              sq ft          60 sq ft via
         uses by CUP                                                sq. ft                  Institutional: CUP
         and 15' high                                                                       60 sq ft via
                                                                                            CUP
                                                                                            Residential:
         Max 60 sq ft.                      Non-                    Project                 8 sq ft        Residential:
         per sign                           Residential             Area < 20               permanent      8 sq ft
         surface, with                      uses: 25 sq             acres: 48               10 sq ft       permanent
         max 120 sq ft                      ft. per     Max 25 sq   sq. ft.                 temporary      10 sq ft
R-3      per street    8 sq ft     6 ft     side, 50 sq ft and 8 ft Project     10 sq ft    Home           temporary
         frontage for                       ft max      high        Area > 20               Occupation: 4  Institutional:
         institutional                      2 sides                 acres: 100              sq ft          60 sq ft via
         uses by CUP                        Max 8 ft                sq. ft                  Institutional: CUP
         and 15' high                       high                                            60 sq ft via
                                                                                            CUP
         Max 60 sq ft.                      Non-                    Project
         per sign      12 sq ft             Residential             Area < 20
         surface, with residential          uses: 25 sq             acres: 48
         max 120 sq ft use                  ft. per     Max 25 sq   sq. ft.
R-4      per street    12 sq ft    6 ft     side, 50 sq ft and 8 ft Project     10 sq ft
         frontage for  non-                 ft max 2    high        Area > 20
         institutional residential          sides                   acres: 100
         uses by CUP   use                  Max 8 ft                sq. ft
         and 15' high                       high
                                            Non-                    Project
                                            Residential Residential Area < 20
                                            uses: 25 sq Subdivision acres: 48
                                            ft. per     Signs:      sq. ft.
R-5      NA            NA          25 ft    side, 50 sq Max 25 sq   Project                 100            100
                                            ft max 2    ft and 8 ft Area > 20
                                            sides       high        acres: 100
                                            Max 8 ft                sq. ft
                                            high
 
                      FREE-                                  SQ FT.    SQ FT.
         WALL  WINDOW STANDING MONUMENT OTHER         REAL   MAX       MAX SIZE
DISTRICT SIGNS SIGNS  SIGN MAX SIGNS    SIGNS AWNINGS ESTATE AGGREGATE FOR ANY
                      HEIGHT                          SIGN   OR TOTAL  ONE SIGN
                                                             SIGN AREA
                                                                                        SQ
                                                                              SQ FT.    FT.
                             FREE-                                     REAL   MAX       MAX
DISTRICT WALL      WINDOW    STANDING  MONUMENT OTHER      AWNINGS     ESTATE AGGREGATE SIZE
         SIGNS     SIGNS     SIGN MAX  SIGNS    SIGNS                  SIGN   OR TOTAL  FOR
                             HEIGHT                                           SIGN AREA ANY
                                                                                        ONE
                                                                                        SIGN
                   50% of                                  8 ft
                   the                                     clearance
                   window                                  from the
                   area,                                   bottom of
C-1      10% of    unless    25 ft                         awning to
Lots 0   the wall  approved  high, 12                      sidewalk/                    100
to       or 80 sq  by a CUP. sq ft per NA       Murals     ground.     24 sq  200 sq ft sq
10,000   ft        Other     face.                         Max         ft               ft
sq. ft.  whichever permanent CUP                           projection:
         is less.  signs on  required.                     3 ft
                   window                                  Max size of
                   10% of                                  sign on
                   area.                                   awning: 12
                                                           sq ft
                   50% of                                  8 ft
                   the                                     clearance
                   window                                  from the
                   area,                                   bottom of
C-1      10% of    unless    25 ft                         awning to
Lots     the wall  approved  high, 12                      sidewalk/                    150
10,000   or 80 sq  by a CUP. sq ft per NA       Murals     ground.     24 sq  250 sq ft sq
to       ft        Other     face.                         Max         ft               ft
20,000   whichever permanent CUP                           projection:
sq ft.   is less.  signs on  required.                     3 ft
                   window                                  Max size of
                   10% of                                  sign on
                   area.                                   awning: 12
                                                           sq ft
                   50% of                                  8 ft
                   the                                     clearance
                   window                                  from the
                   area,                                   bottom of
C-1      10% of    unless    25 ft                         awning to
Lots     the wall  approved  high, 12                      sidewalk/                    200
over     or 80 sq  by a CUP. sq ft per NA       Murals     ground.     24 sq  300 sq ft sq
20,000   ft        Other     face.                         Max         ft               ft
sq. ft.  whichever permanent CUP                           projection:
         is less   signs on  required.                     3 ft
                   window                                  Max size of
                   10% of                                  sign on
                   area.                                   awning: 12
                                                           sq ft
                   50% of                                  8 ft
                   the                          Sandwich   clearance
                   window                       signs      from the
                   area,                        provided   bottom of
C-2 CBD  10% of    unless    25 ft              4' of      awning to   24 sq
Lots 0   the wall  approved  high, 12           sidewalk   sidewalk/   ft -             200
to       or 80 sq  by a CUP. sq ft per NA       clearance. ground.     Real   250 sq ft sq
10,000   ft        Other     face.              Only out   Max         Estate           ft
sq ft.   whichever permanent CUP                during     projection: signs
         is less.  signs on  required.          store      3 ft
                   window                       hours.     Max size of
                   10% of                       Murals     sign on
                   area.                                   awning: 12
                                                           sq ft
                   50% of                                  8 ft
                   the                          Sandwich   clearance
                   window                       signs      from the
                   area,                        provided   bottom of
C-2      10% of    unless    25 ft              4' of      awning to
Lots     the wall  approved  high, 12           sidewalk   sidewalk/                    200
10,000   or 80 sq  by a CUP. sq ft per NA       clearance. ground.     24 sq  300 sq ft sq
to       ft        Other     face.              Only out   Max         ft               ft
20,000   whichever permanent CUP                during     projection:
sq ft.   is less.  signs on  required.          store      3 ft
                   window                       hours.     Max size of
                   10% of                       Murals     sign on
                   area.                                   awning: 12
                                                           sq ft
                   50% of                                  8 ft
                   the                          Sandwich   clearance
                   window                       signs      from the
                   area,                        provided   bottom of
C-2      10% of    unless    25 ft              4' of      awning to
Lots     the wall  approved  high, 12           sidewalk   sidewalk/                    300
over     or 80 sq  by a CUP. sq ft per NA       clearance. ground.     24 sq  350 sq ft sq
20,000   ft        Other     face.              Only out   Max         ft               ft
sq ft.   whichever permanent CUP                during     projection:
         is less.  signs on  required.          store      3 ft
                   window                       hours.     Max size of
                   10% of                       Murals     sign on
                   area.                                   awning: 12
                                                           sq ft
         2 sq ft
         for every
         linear
         foot of                                           8 ft
         front of            25 ft                         clearance
         bldg. Max 50% of    high, Max          Sandwich   from the
         200 sq    the       150 sq ft          signs      bottom of
         ft.       window    per side           provided   awning to
C-3      Max 1 sq  area,     for                4' of      sidewalk/
Lots     ft of     unless    double    25 sq ft sidewalk   ground.
less     sign for  approved  sided     per      clearance. Max         24 sq            300
than     each      by a CUP. signs.    side,    Only out   projection: ft     400 sq ft sq
100,000  linear ft Other     Gas       8' high  during     3 ft                         ft
sq. ft.  of bldg   permanent stations-          store      Max size of
         that      signs on  canopy             hours.     sign on
         faces a   window    sign not                     awning 80
         street or 10% of    to exceed          Murals     sq ft or
         public    area.     100 sq ft                     10% of area
         entrance                                          whichever
         (non                                              is less.
         front).
         Max 100
         sq ft
         2 sq ft
         for every
         linear
         foot of                                           8 ft
         front of            25 ft                         clearance
         bldg. Max 50% of    high, Max          Sandwich   from the
         200 sq    the       150 sq ft          signs      bottom of
         ft.       window    per side           provided   awning to
         Max 1 sq  area,     for                4' of      sidewalk/
C-3      ft of     unless    double    25 sq ft sidewalk   ground.
Lots     sign for  approved  sided     per      clearance. Max         24 sq            300
over     each      by a CUP. signs.    side,    Only out   projection: ft     500 sq ft sq
100,000  linear ft Other     Gas       8' High  during     3 ft                         ft
sq ft.   of bldg   permanent stations-          store      Max size of
         that      signs on  canopy             hours.     sign on
         faces a   window    sign not                     awning 80
         street or 10% of    to exceed          Murals     sq ft or
         public    area.     100 sq ft                     10% of area
         entrance                                          whichever
         (non                                              is less.
         front).
         Max 100
         sq ft
I-1 and                      25 ft                         Max size of
I-2      20% of              high, Max                     sign on
Lots     wall or             150 sq ft 25 sq ft            awning 80                    200
less     150 sq    NA        per side  per      Murals     sq ft or    24 sq  250 sq ft sq
than     ft,                 for       side,               10% of area ft               ft
20,000   whichever           double    8' high             whichever
sq. ft.  is less.            sided                         is less
                             signs.
I-1 and                      25 ft                         Max size of
I-2      20% of              high, Max                     sign on
Lots     wall or             150 sq ft 25 sq ft            awning 80                    300
20,000   150 sq    NA        per side  per      Murals     sq ft or    24 sq  350 sq ft sq
to       ft,                 for       side,               10% of area ft               ft
50,000   whichever           double    8' high             whichever
sq ft.   is less.            sided                         is less
                             signs.
                             25 ft                         Max size of
I-1 and  20% of              high, Max                     sign on
I-2      wall or             150 sq ft 25 sq ft            awning 80                    300
Lots     150 sq    NA        per side  per      Murals     sq ft or    24 sq  400 sq ft sq
over     ft,                 for       side,               10% of area ft               ft
50,000   whichever           double    8' high             whichever
sq. ft.  is less.            sided                         is less
                             signs.
                                                                              200 sq ft 100
PUD                          25 Ft                                            pr acre   sq
                                                                                        ft
 
SHORELAND OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 154.281 DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions included in §
154.020 of the City Code shall apply.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.282 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Shoreland Overlay District is to protect and enhance the
quality of surface waters by promoting the wise utilization of public waters,
watercourses and related land resources. The use of any shoreland of public
waters; the size and shape of lots; the use, size, type and location of
structures on lots; the installation and maintenance of water supply and waste
treatment systems, the grading and filling of any shoreland area; the cutting
of shoreland vegetation; and the subdivision of land shall be in full
compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.283 DISTRICT APPLICATION.
   The Shoreland Overlay District shall be an overlay district and shall be
superimposed on all zoning classifications in the designated overlay area. The
"Shoreland Overlay District" shall correspond to any/all shorelands of the
public water bodies and water courses as classified in this chapter. The
standards contained in the Shoreland Overlay District shall be in addition to
any other requirements set forth in this chapter. If the district standards are
conflicting, the more restrictive standards shall apply. The boundaries of the
Shoreland Overlay District are defined as follows:
   (A)   One thousand feet from the ordinary high water level of the classified
lakes as listed in §
154.284.
   (B)   Three hundred feet from the ordinary high water level or the landward
extent of a floodplain designated by ordinance (whichever is greater) of the
classified rivers and streams as listed in §
154.284.
   (C)   No lake, pond, or flowage less than 10 acres in size in the city or 25
acres in size in unincorporated areas need be subject to Shoreland Overlay
District standards.
   (D)   A body of water created by a private user where there was no previous
shoreland may, at the city's discretion, be exempt from this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.284 SHORELAND CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM.
   The public waters and public waters wetlands of the City of Jordan, Scott
County, Minnesota have been classified below consistent with the criteria found
in Minnesota Rules, part 6120.3000; or successor rule, and the Protected Waters
Inventory Map for Scott County, Minnesota. The shoreland area for the water
bodies itemized below shall be subject to the standards of the Shoreland
Overlay District.
   (A)   Protected public water:
      (1)   (# 113P) Mill Pond. Classification: Recreational Development Lake.
   (B)   Protected watercourses:
      (1)   Sand Creek. Classification: Tributary.
      (2)   All protected watercourses in the City of Jordan shown on the
"Protected Waters Inventory Map for Scott County", a copy of which is hereby
adopted by reference, not given a classification shall be considered
"Tributary".
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.285 PERMITTED USES.
   Uses without water-oriented needs must be located on lots or parcels without
public waters frontage, or, if located on lots or parcels with public waters
frontage, must either be set back double the normal ordinary high water level
setback or be substantially screened form view from the water by vegetation or
topography, assuming summer, leaf on conditions. The following are permitted
uses within the Shoreland Overlay District:
   (A)   Recreational development lakes. All uses allowed and regulated in the
applicable underlying zoning district.
   (B)   Tributary streams. All uses allowed and regulated in the applicable
underlying zoning district.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.286 CONDITIONAL USES.
   Uses without water-oriented needs must be located on lots or parcels without
public waters frontage, or, if located on lots or parcels with public waters
frontage, must either be set back double the normal ordinary high water level
setback or be substantially screened from view from the water by vegetation or
topography, assuming summer, leaf on conditions.
   (A)   The following are conditional uses within the Shoreland Overlay
District:
      (1)   Recreational development lakes.
         (a)   Parks and historical sites.
         (b)   Semipublic uses.
         (c)   Residential PUD (note: all residential subdivisions exceeding
quad unit densities may be allowed if designed and approved as residential
PUD's providing the standards of §§
154.292 and
154.294 are met.
         (d)   Commercial PUD's providing the standards of §§
154.291 and
154.292 are met.
      (2)   Tributary streams. All conditional uses allowed and regulated in
the applicable underlying zoning district.
   (B)   Conditional uses allowable within shoreland areas shall be subject to
review and approval procedures, and criteria and conditions established in §
154.047. In addition, the following standards shall apply:
      (1)   A thorough evaluation of the water body and the topographic,
vegetation and soils conditions on the site shall be made to ensure:
         (a)   The prevention of soil erosion or other possible pollution of
public waters, both during and after construction;
         (b)   The visibility of structures and other facilities as viewed from
public waters is limited;
         (c)   The site is adequate for water supply and on-site sewage
treatment; and
         (d)   The types, uses, and numbers of watercraft that the project will
generate are compatible in relation to the suitability of public waters to
safely accommodate the watercraft.
      (2)   The city may require the visibility of structures and other
facilities as viewed from public waters to be limited.
      (3)   The city may impose limitations on natural vegetation removed. The
city may require additional vegetation be planted.
      (4)   The city may increase setbacks from the ordinary high water mark.
      (5)   The city may impose special provisions for the location, design and
use of structures; utilities; watercraft launching and docking areas; and,
vehicle parking areas.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.287 ACCESSORY USES.
   Accessory uses and structures shall be the same as those listed in the
underlying zoning classification.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.288 LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   The following area and width requirements shall apply to lots platted and/or
homes developed after the effective date of this chapter. Lots platted prior to
the effective date of this chapter shall be exempt from the following:
   (A)   Sewered Lakes: Recreational Development; Riparian Lots
      Type      Area      Width
      Single      20,000       80
   (B)   Sewered Lakes: Recreational Development; Non-Riparian Lots
      Type      Area      Width
      Single      15,000       80
   (C)   River/Stream: Tributary Streams
      Type      Area         Width
      Single      See          75
   (D)   River/Streams: Tributary commercial lot size and width requirements
shall be the same as those listed in the underlying zoning classification.
   (E)   In all zoning classifications, only land area above the ordinary high
water level shall be used to meet the minimum lot area and width requirements.
Lot width standards shall be met at the ordinary high water level and at the
building line.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.289 SETBACKS.
   (A)   In addition to setback requirements of the underlying zoning
classification, uses within the Shoreland Overlay District shall be setback (in
feet) from ordinary high water level as follows:
 
Classification                 Structure Setback* Sewage Treatment System
                               Unsewered Sewered
Recreational Development Lakes 100       75       75
Tributary                      100       50       75
*This includes setbacks to an on-site sewage system.
 
   (B)   In addition to setbacks from the ordinary high water level, all
structures in all shoreland overlay districts shall be set back:
 
Setback from                           Structure Setback
Top of bluff                           30 feet
Unplatted cemetery                     50 feet
                                       50 feet. This shall not apply to
Federal, State, County Highway Rights- buildings within Jordan's C-2 or Central
of-way.                                Business District. The setbacks in the
                                       C-2 District shall apply.
Town road, public streets, or other    30 feet. This shall not apply to
roads or streets not classified right- buildings within Jordan's C-2 or Central
of-way line                            Business District. The setbacks in the
                                       C-2 District shall apply.
 
   (C)   Bluff impact zones. Structures and accessory facilities, except
stairways and landings, shall not be placed within bluff impact zones.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.290 HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   No portion of any structure, except churches and nonresidential agricultural
structures, shall exceed 35 feet in height within the Shoreland Overlay
District. Berming the building does not allow a building to be constructed
higher than 35 feet. Elevation for the building shall be determined by the
average grade of the land.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.291 IMPERVIOUS SURFACE COVERAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   Impervious surface coverage for all lots in the Shoreland Overlay District
shall not exceed 25% of the lot area, except as provided in the following
provisions. Such impervious surface coverage shall be documented by a
certificate of survey at the time of any zoning or building permit application.
   (A)   An existing site which is being altered, remodeled, or expanded
without expanding the existing impervious surface may be allowed, provide that
where appropriate and necessary, structures and practices for the treatment of
stormwater runoff are in compliance with the Jordan Surface Water Management
Plan and approved by the City Engineer.
   (B)   In the Central Business District (C-2), new construction on conforming
lots or an existing site being altered, remodeled, or expanded which expands
the existing impervious surface coverage may be allowed where necessary;
provided that the site conforms to the Jordan Surface Water Management Plan, is
approved by the City Engineer, the impervious surface coverage does not exceed
75% of the total parcel, and the following stipulations are met:
      (1)   All structures, additions or expansions shall meet setback and
other requirements of the underlying zoning district;
      (2)   The parcel shall be served by municipal sewer and water; and
      (3)   Stormwater is collected and treated in compliance with the Jordan
Surface Water Management Plan.
   (C)   Impervious surface coverage for the Central Business District (C-2)
may be allowed to exceed 75% of the total parcel or exceed existing conditions
on the parcel which are over 75%, provided the following stipulations are met:
      (1)   A conditional use permit is submitted and approved as set forth in
§
154.047;
      (2)   Improvements shall be constructed in compliance with the Jordan
Surface Water Management Plan; and
      (3)   All the conditions in provision (B) above are satisfactorily met.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2022-05, passed 8-8-2022)
§ 154.292 SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL USE.
   (A)   Surface water-oriented commercial uses and industrial, public, or
semipublic uses with similar needs to have access to and use of public waters
may be located on parcels or lots with frontage on public waters. Those uses
with water-oriented needs must meet the following standards:
      (1)   In addition to meeting impervious coverage limits, setbacks and
other dimensional provisions of this chapter, the uses must be designed to
incorporate topographic and vegetative screening of parking areas and
structures;
      (2)   Uses that require short-term watercraft mooring for patrons must
centralize these facilities and design them to avoid obstructions of navigation
and to be the minimum size necessary to meet the need; and,
      (3)   Uses that depend on patrons arriving by watercraft may use signs
and lighting to convey needed information to the public, subject to the
following general standards:
         (a)   No advertising signs or supporting facilities for signs may be
placed in or upon public waters. Signs conveying information or safety messages
may be placed in or on public waters by a public authority or under a permit
issued by the City of Jordan;
         (b)   Signs may be placed, when necessary, within the shore impact
zone if they are designed and sized to be the minimum necessary to convey the
location and name of the establishment and the general type of goods or
services available. The signs must not contain other detailed information such
as product brands and prices, must not be located higher than 10 feet above the
ground, and must not exceed 32 square feet in size. If illuminated by
artificial lighting, such lights shall be shielded or directed to prevent
illumination out across public waters; and
         (c)   Other outside lighting may be located within the shore impact
zone or over public waters if it is used primarily to illuminate potential
safety hazards and is shielded or otherwise directed to prevent direct
illumination out across public waters. This section does not preclude the use
of navigational lighting.
      (4)   Uses without water-oriented needs. Commercial, industrial, public
and semi-public uses without water-oriented needs must be located on lots or
parcels without public waters frontage, or, if located on lots or parcels with
public waters frontage, must either be set back double the normal ordinary high
water level setback or be substantially screened from view from the water by
vegetation or topography, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.293 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General considerations and criteria for all land uses within the
Shoreland Overlay District. Consideration shall be given to, and, the following
standards shall be reviewed prior to the commencement of any land use within
the Shoreland Overlay District:
      (1)   Preservation of natural areas;
      (2)   Present ownership and development of shoreland areas;
      (3)   Shoreland soil types and their engineering capabilities;
      (4)   Topographic characteristics;
      (5)   Vegetative cover;
      (6)   In-water physical characteristics, values, and constraints;
      (7)   Recreational use of the surface water;
      (8)   Road and service center accessibility;
      (9)   Socioeconomic development needs and plans as they involve water and
related land resources;
      (10)   The land requirements of industry which, by its nature, requires
location in shoreland areas; and
      (11)   The necessity to preserve and restore certain areas having
significant historical or ecological value.
   (B)   All structures within the Shoreland Overlay District adjacent to
tributaries shall meet the following:
      (1)   All structures, including accessory structures and additions to
existing structures shall be placed so that the lowest floor (basement or first
floor if there is no basement) is at least 3 feet above the flood of record, if
data is available. If data is not available, the lowest floor shall be placed
at least 3 feet above the ordinary high water level. Alternately any structure
shall be constructed on fill so that the basement floor, or first floor if
there is no basement, is 1 foot above the regulatory flood protection
elevation. The finished fill elevation must be no lower than 1 foot above the
regulatory flood protection elevation and shall extend at such elevation at
least 15 feet beyond the limits of the structure constructed thereon. If more
than 1 of these approaches is used, the highest flood protection elevation that
is determined shall be used for placing all structures and other facilities.
      (2)   Uses that do not have vehicular access at or above an elevation not
more than 2 feet below the regulatory flood protection elevation to lands
outside of the flood plain shall not be permitted unless granted a variance by
the Board of Adjustment. In granting a variance, the Board shall specify
limitations on the period of use or occupancy of the use and only after
determining that adequate flood warning time and local emergency response and
recovery procedures exist.
      (3)   Accessory commercial land uses, such as yards and parking lots may
be at elevations lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation. However,
a permit for such facilities to be used by the employees or the general public
shall not be granted unless a flood warning system is in place.
   (C)   In addition to the requirements of the underlying zoning
classification, all structures within the Shoreland Overlay Districts adjacent
to lakes shall adhere to the following:
      (1)   The lowest floor at a level shall be placed no lower than 1 foot
above the regulatory flood protection elevation or at least 3 feet above the
highest known water level, or at least 3 feet above the ordinary high water
level, whichever is higher.
   (D)   The city shall evaluate soil erosion impacts and development
visibility from public waters before issuing a permit for construction of
roads, driveways, structures or other improvements on steep slopes. When
determined necessary, conditions shall be attached to issued permits to prevent
erosion and to preserve existing vegetation screening of structures, vehicles
and other facilities as viewed from the surface of public waters, assuming
summer, leaf-on vegetation.
   (E)   Upon application for a permit or subdivision approval within the
Shoreland Overlay District and also within the floodplain or flood fringe, the
city shall notify and require the applicant furnish sufficient site development
plans and a hydrologic/hydraulic analysis by a qualified engineer or
hydrologist, specifying the nature of the development. Procedures consistent
with Minnesota Rules: Technical Standards and Requirements for Flood Plain
Evaluation shall be followed during the technical evaluation and review of the
development proposal. The City of Jordan shall submit 1 copy of the information
required above to the respective Department of Natural Resources Area
Hydrologist for review and comment at least 20 days prior to the granting of a
permit or manufacture home park/subdivision approval is granted.
      (1)   The site development plans shall identify the following:
         (a)   Ordinary high water mark;
         (b)   Toe of the bluff;
         (c)   Top of the bluff;
         (d)   Bluff impact zone; and
         (e)   Structure locations.
   (F)   Placement and design of roads, driveways, and parking areas.
      (1)   Public and private roads and parking areas shall be designed to
take advantage of natural vegetation and topography to achieve maximum
screening from view from public waters. Plans and specifications shall be
provided by a qualified individual, such as a registered professional engineer,
architect or surveyor, showing that all roads and parking areas are designed
and will be constructed to minimize and control erosion to public waters
consistent with the field office technical guides of the local Soil and Water
Conservation District or other applicable technical materials.
      (2)   Public and private roads, driveways, and parking areas shall meet
structure setbacks from the ordinary high water mark for the applicable lake or
river classification, and shall not be placed within the bluff and shore impact
zones when avoidance is an option. If no alternatives exist, they may be placed
within these areas, provided they are designed to minimize adverse impacts.
   (G)   Stormwater management. The following general and specific standards
shall apply:
      (1)   General standards:
         (a)   When possible, existing natural drainageways, wetlands, and
vegetated soil surfaces must be used to convey, store, filter, and retain
stormwater runoff before discharge to public waters.
         (b)   Development must be planned and conducted in a manner that will
minimize the extent of disturbed areas, runoff velocities, erosion potential,
and reduce and delay runoff volumes. Disturbed areas must be stabilized and
protected as soon as possible and facilities or methods used to retain sediment
on the site.
         (c)   When development density, topographic features, and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle stormwater runoff
using natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed facilities
such as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes, waterways, and
ponds may be used. Preference must be given to designs using surface drainage,
vegetation, and infiltration rather than buried pipes and man-made materials
and facilities.
      (2)   Specific standards:
         (a)   When constructed facilities are used for stormwater management,
documentation must be provided by a qualified individual that they are designed
and installed consistent with the field office technical guide of the local
soil and water conservation districts.
         (b)   New constructed stormwater outfalls to public waters must
provide for filtering or settling of suspended solids and skimming of surface
debris before discharge.
   (H)   Topographic alterations, grading and filling.
      (1)   Grading and filling and excavations necessary for the construction
of structures, sewage treatment systems, and driveways under validly issued
construction permits for these facilities do not require the issuance of a
separate grading and filling permit. However, the grading and filling standards
in this section must be incorporated into the issuance of permits for
construction of structures, sewage treatment systems, and driveways.
      (2)   Public roads and parking areas are regulated by division (F) of
this section.
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (1) and (2) above, a grading and filling
permit will be required for:
         (a)   The movement of more than 10 cubic yards of material on steep
slopes or within shore or bluff impact zones; and
         (b)   The movement of more than 50 cubic yards of material outside of
steep slopes and shore and bluff impact zones.
      (4)   The following considerations and conditions must be adhered to
during the issuance of construction permits, grading and filling permits,
conditional use permits, variances and subdivision approvals:
         (a)   Grading or filling in any type 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, or 8 wetland
must be evaluated to determine how extensively the proposed activity would
affect the following functional qualities of the wetland*:
            1.   Sediment and pollutant trapping and retention;
            2.   Storage of surface runoff to prevent or reduce flood damage;
            3.   Fish and wildlife habitat;
            4.   Recreational use;
            5.   Shoreline or bank stabilization; and
            6.   Noteworthiness, including special qualities such as historic
significance, critical habitat for endangered plants and animals, or others.
   *This evaluation must also include a determination of whether the wetland
alteration being proposed requires permits, reviews, or approvals by other
local, state, or federal agencies such as a watershed district, the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources, or the United States Army Corps of Engineers.
The applicant will be so advised.
         (b)   Alterations must be designed and conducted in a manner that
ensures only the smallest amount of bare ground is exposed for the shortest
time possible;
         (c)   Mulches or similar materials must be used, where necessary, for
temporary bare soil coverage, and a permanent vegetation cover must be
established as soon as possible;
         (d)   Methods to minimize soil erosion and to trap sediments before
they reach any surface water feature must be used;
         (e)   Altered areas must be stabilized to acceptable erosion control
standards consistent with the field office technical guides of the local soil
and water conservation districts and the United States Soil Conservation
Service;
         (f)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in a manner that
creates an unstable slope;
         (g)   Plans to place fill or excavated material on steep slopes must
be reviewed by qualified professionals for continued slope stability and must
not create finished slopes of 30% or greater;
         (h)   Fill or excavated material must not be placed in bluff impact
zones;
         (i)   Any alterations below the ordinary high water level of public
waters must first be authorized by the commissioner under: M.S. § 103G.405.
         (j)   Alterations of topography must only be allowed if they are
accessory to permitted or conditional uses and do not adversely affect adjacent
or nearby properties; and
         (k)   Placement of natural rock riprap, including associated grading
of the shoreline and placement of a filter blanket, is permitted if the
finished slope does not exceed 3 feet horizontal to 1 foot vertical, the
landward extent of the riprap is within 10 feet of the ordinary high water
level, and the height of the riprap above the ordinary high water level does
not exceed 3 feet.
   (I)   Connections to public waters. Excavations where the intended purpose
is connection to public water, such as boat slips, canals, lagoons, and
harbors, must be controlled by local shoreland controls. Permission for
excavations may be given only after the commissioner has approved the proposed
connection to public waters.
   (J)   Vegetative alterations.
      (1)   Vegetation alterations necessary for the construction of
structures, placement of municipal utilities or the construction of roadways
and parking areas as outlined in this section are exempt from the vegetation
alteration standards that follow.
      (2)   Removal or alteration of vegetation is allowed subject to the
following standards:
         (a)   Intensive vegetation clearing within the shore and bluff impact
zones and on steep slopes is not allowed.
         (b)   In shore and bluff impact zones and on steep slopes, limited
clearing of trees and cutting, pruning and trimming of trees is allowed to
provide a view to the water from the principal dwelling site and to accommodate
the placement of stairways and landings, picnic areas, access paths and beach
and watercraft access areas provided that:
            1.   The screening of structures, vehicles or other facilities as
viewed from the water assuming summer, leaf on conditions is not substantially
reduced.
            2.   Along rivers, existing shading of water surfaces is preserved.
            3.   Removal of trees, limbs or branches that are dead, diseased or
pose safety hazards are not affected by this standard.
   (K)   Storage of hazardous materials.
      (1)   The storage or processing of materials that are, in time of
flooding: flammable, explosive or potentially injurious to human, animal or
plant life is prohibited.
      (2)   Storage of other materials or equipment, where allowed by the
underlying zoning district, may be allowed if readily removable from the area
within the time available after a flood warning or if placed on fill to the
regulatory flood protection elevation. The regulatory flood protection
elevation is an elevation no lower than 1 foot above the elevation of the
regional flood plus any increases in flood elevation caused by encroachments on
the flood plain and/or floodway.
   (L)   Water-oriented accessory structures.
      (1)   Each lot may have 1 water-oriented accessory structure not meeting
the normal structure setback provided the water-oriented accessory structure:
         (a)   The structure or facility does not exceed 10 feet in height,
exclusive of safety rails, and does not occupy an area greater than 120 square
feet.
         (b)   Detached decks do not exceed 8 feet above grade at any point.
         (c)   The structure or facility is set back from the ordinary high
water level at minimum of 10 feet, and set back from the side lot line shall be
at least 10 feet.
         (d)   The structure or facility is treated to reduce visibility as
viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by vegetation, topography,
increased setbacks or color, assuming summer, leaf-on conditions.
         (e)   The roof may be used as a deck with safety rails, but shall not
be enclosed or used as a storage area.
         (f)   The structure or facility shall not be designed or used for
human habitation and shall not contain water or sewer facilities.
   (M)   Stairways, lifts and landings.
      (1)   Stairways and lifts are the preferred alternative to major
topographic alterations for achieving access up and down bluffs and steep
slopes to shore areas. Stairways, sidewalks, lifts and landings must meet the
following design requirements:
         (a)   Stairways, sidewalks and lifts must not exceed 4 feet in width
on residential lots. Wider stairways, and sidewalks may be used for commercial
properties, public open-space recreational properties, and planned unit
developments if specifically authorized in a conditional use permit;
         (b)   Landings for stairways and lifts on residential lots must not
exceed 32 square feet in area. Landings larger than 32 square feet may be
allowed for commercial properties, public open-space recreational properties,
and planned unit developments if specifically authorized in a conditional use
permit;
         (c)   Canopies or roofs are not allowed on stairways, sidewalks,
lifts, or landings;
         (d)   Stairways, sidewalks, lifts or landings may be either
constructed above the ground on posts or pilings, or placed into the ground
provided they are designed and built in a manner that ensures control of soil
erosion;
         (e)   Stairways, sidewalks, lifts or landings must be located in the
most visually inconspicuous portions of lots, as viewed from the surface of the
public waters assuming summer, leaf-on conditions, whenever practical; and
         (f)   Facilities such as ramps, lifts, or mobility paths for
physically handicapped persons are also allowed as a permitted use for
achieving access to shore areas, provided that the dimensional and performance
standards of this section, and the requirements of the State Building Code are
complied with.
   (N)   Controlled access or recreational lots.
      (1)   Lots intended as controlled accesses to public waters or as
recreation areas for use by owners of nonriparian lots within subdivisions and/
or PUDs are permissible and must meet the following standards:
         (a)   They must meet the width and size requirements for residential
lots, and be suitable for the intended uses of controlled access lots.
         (b)   If docking, mooring or over-water storage of more than 6
watercraft is to be allowed at a controlled access lot, the width of the lot
(keeping the same lot depth) must be increased by the percent of the
requirements for riparian residential lots for each watercraft beyond 6,
consistent with the following table:
 
Ratio of Lake Size (acres) Required Increase
to Shore Length (miles)    in Frontage (%)
Less than 100              25
100-200                    20
201-300                    15
301-400                    10
More than 400              5
 
         (c)   They must be jointly owned by all purchasers of lots in the
subdivision or by all purchasers of nonriparian lots in the subdivision who are
provided riparian access rights on the access lot.
         (d)   Covenants or other equally effective legal instruments must be
developed that specify which lot owners have authority to use the access lot
and what activities are allowed. The activities may include watercraft
launching, loading, storage, beaching, mooring or docking. They must also
include other outdoor recreational activities that do not significantly
conflict general public use of the public water or the enjoyment of normal
property rights by adjacent property owners. Examples of the non-significant
conflict activities include swimming, sunbathing or picnicking. The covenants
must limit the total number of vehicles allowed to be continuously moored,
parked or stored over water and must require centralization of all common
facilities and activities in the most suitable locations on the lot to minimize
topographic and vegetation alterations. They must also require all parking
areas, storage buildings and other facilities to be screened by vegetation or
topography as much as practical from view from the public water, assuming
summer, leaf-on conditions.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.294 NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Notification to Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
      (1)   Copies of all notices of public hearing for amendments, conditional
uses, or variances shall be sent to the Commissioner of the Minnesota
Department of Natural Resources at least 10 days prior to such hearings. The
notice shall include a copy of the proposed ordinance or amendment, or a
description of the requested conditional use or variance. The city shall notify
the Commissioner of its final decision on the proposed action within ten days
of the decision.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.295 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Planned unit developments (PUD's) are allowed as conditional uses for
new projects on undeveloped land, redevelopment of previously built sites, or
conversions of existing buildings provided the use is allowable in the
underlying zoning classification.
   (B)   PUD's shall be processed in the manner defined in the underlying
zoning classification and in compliance with this section.
   (C)   An applicant for a PUD shall submit the following documents prior to
final action being taken on the application request:
      (1)   A site plan and/or plat for the project showing: the boundary of
the proposed development; surface water features and other natural and man-made
features; existing and proposed structures and other facilities, proposed land
alterations; the location of municipal utilities; and topographic contours at a
minimum of 10-foot intervals. A PUD that combines commercial and residential
structures shall indicate and distinguish which buildings and portions of a
project are commercial, residential or a combination of the 2.
      (2)   For residential planned unit developments, a property owner's
association agreement with mandatory membership, all in accordance with the
maintenance and administrative requirements prescribed in §§
154.191 through
154.199.
      (3)   Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent easements or other
instruments that:
         (a)   Properly address future vegetative and topographic alterations;
construction of additional buildings; beaching of watercraft; and construction
of commercial buildings in residential PUD's; and,
         (b)   Ensure the long-term preservation and maintenance of open space
in accordance with the criteria and analysis specified in the maintenance and
administrative requirements of this section.
      (4)   For commercial planned unit developments, and for commercial
structures within residential planned unit developments; a master plan/drawing
describing the proposed project and the floor plan for all commercial
structures to be occupied.
      (5)   Any additional documents as requested by the City of Jordan
Planning Commission that are necessary to explain how the PUD will be designed
and will function.
   (D)   PUD site suitability evaluation.
      (1)   Proposed new, or expansions to existing, planned unit developments
shall be evaluated using the following procedures and standards to determine
the suitable area for the dwelling unit/dwelling site evaluation described in
§§
154.191 through
154.199.
      (2)   The project parcel must be divided into tiers by locating 1 or more
lines approximately parallel to a line that identifies the ordinary high water
level at the following intervals, proceeding landward:
               Recreational Development lakes         267 ft.
               Rivers and Tributaries               300 ft.
      (3)   The suitable area within each tier is next calculated by excluding
from the tier area all wetlands, bluffs, and land below the ordinary high water
level of public waters. This suitable area and the proposed development are
then subjected to either the residential or commercial planned unit development
density evaluation steps to arrive at an allowable number of dwelling units or
sites within each tier.
   (E)   PUD maximum density.
      (1)   The procedures for determining the allowable density of residential
and commercial planned unit developments are as follows. Allowable densities
may be transferred from a tier to any other tier further from the public water,
but shall not be transferred to any tier closer to the public water.
      (2)   To determine the allowable density for residential planned unit
developments:
         (a)   The suitable area within each tier is divided by the single
residential lot size standard for the applicable management district.
         (b)   Proposed locations and numbers of dwelling units or sites for
the residential planned unit developments are then compared with the tier,
density, and suitability analyses herein and the maintenance and design
criteria prescribed in §§
154.191 through
154.199.
      (3)   To determine the allowable density for commercial planned unit
developments:
         (a)   The average inside living area size of dwelling units or sites
is computed. Computation of inside living area need not include decks, patios,
stoops, steps, garages, porches or basements unless such areas are habitable
space;
         (b)   The appropriate floor area ratio is then selected from the
following table based upon the average unit floor area for the appropriate
public water classification;
Average Unit Floor Area Tributaries Recreational Development Lakes
in Square Feet                      and Transitional Rivers
Average Unit Floor Area Tributaries Recreational Development Lakes
in Square Feet                      and Transitional Rivers
200 or less             .040        .020
300                     .048        .024
400                     .056        .028
500                     .065        .032
600                     .072        .038
700                     .082        .042
800                     .091        .046
900                     .099        .050
1,000                   .108        .054
1,100                   .116        .058
1,200                   .125        .064
1,300                   .133        .068
1,400                   .142        .072
1,500 or more           .150        .075
 
* For recreational camping areas, use the ratios listed for the average floor
area of 400 square feet.
         (c)   Multiply the suitable area within each tier by the floor area
ratio to yield total floor area for each tier allowed to be used for dwelling
units or sites;
         (d)   Divide the total floor area by tier computed in division (c)
above by the average inside living area size determined in division (a) above.
This yields the base number of dwelling units and sites for each tier;
         (e)   Proposed locations and numbers of dwelling units or sites for
the commercial planned unit developments are then compared with the tier,
density and suitability analyses herein and the maintenance and design criteria
prescribed in §§
154.191 through
154.199.
      (4)   PUD maintenance and design criteria.
         (a)   Before final approval of a planned unit development may be
granted, adequate provisions must be developed for the preservation and
maintenance of open spaces in perpetuity, and for the continued existence and
functioning of the development.
         (b)   Deed restrictions, covenants, permanent easements, public
dedication and acceptance, or other equally effective and permanent means shall
be provided to ensure long-term preservation and maintenance of open space. The
instruments must include all of the following protections:
            1.   Commercial uses shall be prohibited in residential planned
unit developments;
            2.   Vegetative and topographic alterations, except for routine
maintenance, shall be prohibited;
            3.   Construction of additional buildings or the storage of
vehicles and/or other materials is prohibited;
            4.   Uncontrolled beaching of watercraft shall be prohibited.
         (c)   All residential planned unit developments must have a property
owners association with the following features:
            1.   Membership shall be mandatory for each dwelling unit or site
owner;
            2.   Each member must pay a pro-rata share of the expenses of the
association, and unpaid assessments may become liens on units or sites;
            3.   Assessments must be adjustable to accommodate changing
conditions; and
            4.   The association shall be responsible for insurance, taxes, and
maintenance of all commonly owned property and facilities.
         (d)   All planned unit developments must contain open space meeting
all of the following criteria:
            1.   At least 50% of the total project area must be preserved as
open space;
            2.   Dwelling units or sites, road rights-of-way, land covered by
road surfaces, parking areas, and structures are developed areas and shall not
be included in the computation of open space;
            3.   Open space must include those areas with physical
characteristics unsuitable for development in their natural state, and areas
containing significant historic sites or unplatted cemeteries;
            4.   Open space may include outdoor recreational facilities for use
by owners of dwelling units or sites, by guests staying in commercial dwelling
units or sites, and by the general public;
            5.   Open space may include subsurface sewage treatment systems
provided the use of the space is restricted to avoid adverse impacts on such
systems;
            6.   Open space must not include commercial facilities or uses;
            7.   The appearance of open space areas, including topography,
vegetation, and allowable uses, must be preserved by use of restrictive deed
covenants, permanent easements, public dedication and acceptance, or other
equally effective and permanent means; and
            8.   The shore impact zone, based upon normal structure setbacks,
must be included as open space. For residential planned unit developments, at
least 50% of the shore impact zone of existing developments and at least 70% of
the shore impact zone area of new developments must be preserved in its natural
or existing state. For commercial planned unit developments, at least 50% of
the shore impact zone must be preserved in its natural state.
      (5)   Erosion control and stormwater management plans must be developed
and the PUD must:
         (a)   Adhere to stormwater standards set forth within §§
154.331 through
154.341.
         (b)   Impervious surface coverage within any tier must not exceed 25%
of the tier area, except that for commercial planned unit developments 35%
impervious surface coverage may be allowed in the first tier of general
development lakes with an approved stormwater management plan consistent with
§§
154.331 through
154.341.
      (6)   Centralization and design of facilities and structures must be done
according to the following standards:
         (a)   Planned unit developments shall be connected to municipal
utilities.
         (b)   Dwelling units or sites must be clustered into 1 or more groups
and located on suitable areas of the development. They must be designed and
located to meet or exceed the following dimensional standards for the
applicable shoreland classification: setback from the ordinary high water
level; elevation above the surface water features; and maximum height;
         (c)   Shore recreation facilities, including but not limited to
swimming areas, docks and watercraft mooring areas and launching ramps must be
centralized and located in suitable areas. Evaluation of suitability must
include consideration of land slope, water depth, vegetation, soils, depth to
groundwater and bedrock, or other relevant factors. The number of spaces
provided for continuous beaching, mooring, or docking of watercraft must not
exceed 1 for each allowable dwelling unit or site in the first tier (not
withstanding existing mooring sites in an existing commercially used harbor).
Launching ramp facilities, including a small dock for loading and unloading
equipment, may be provided for use by occupants of dwelling units or sites
located in other tiers;
         (d)   Structures, parking areas, and other facilities must be treated
to reduce visibility as viewed from public waters and adjacent shorelands by
vegetation, topography, increased setbacks, color, or other means, assuming
summer, leaf-on conditions. Vegetative and topographic screening must be
preserved, if existing, or may be required to be provided;
         (e)   Accessory structures and facilities must meet the required
principal structure setback, and must be centralized.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.296 CONVERSIONS TO PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Resorts or other land uses and/or facilities may be converted to
residential planned unit developments provided all of the following standards
are met:
      (1)   Proposed conversions must be initially evaluated using the same
procedures as for residential planned unit developments involving all new
construction. Inconsistencies between existing features of the development and
the PUD standards shall be identified.
      (2)   Deficiencies involving structure color, impervious surface
coverage, open space and shore recreation facilities must be corrected as part
of the conversion, or as specified in the conditional use permit.
      (3)   Shore and bluff impact zone deficiencies must be evaluated and
reasonable improvements made as part of the conversion. These improvements must
include, where applicable, the following:
         (a)   Removal of extraneous buildings, docks, or other facilities that
no longer need to be located in shore or bluff impact zones;
         (b)   Remedial measures to correct erosion sites and improve the
vegetative cover and screening of buildings and other facilities as viewed from
the water; and
         (c)   If existing dwelling units are located in shore or bluff impact
zones, conditions that preclude exterior expansions in any dimension or
substantial alteration are attached to approvals of all conversions. The
conditions must also provide for future relocation of dwelling units, where
feasible, to other locations meeting all setback and elevation requirements
when they are rebuilt or replaced.
      (4)   Existing dwelling unit or dwelling site densities that exceed
standards prescribed in §
154.033, Nonconforming Uses, may be allowed to continue but shall not be
increased, either at the time of conversion or in the future. Efforts must be
made during any such conversion to limit impacts of high densities by requiring
seasonal use, improving vegetative screening, centralizing shore recreation
facilities, or other means.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.297 NONCONFORMING USES AND NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   All legally established nonconformities as of the date of this chapter may
continue, but they will be managed according to applicable portions of §
154.033, Nonconforming Uses, other applicable state statues and other
regulations of the city for the subjects of alternations and additions, repairs
after damage, discontinuance of use, and intensification of use; except that
the following standards will also apply in shoreland areas:
   (A)   Construction on nonconforming lots of record.
      (1)   Lots of record in the office of the county recorder on the date of
enactment of local shoreland controls that do not meet the requirements of this
chapter may be allowed as building sites without variances from lot size
requirements provided the use is permitted in the zoning district, the lot has
been in separate ownership from abutting lands at all times since it became
substandard, was created compliant with official controls in effect at the
time, and sewage treatment and setback requirements of this chapter are met.
      (2)   A variance from setback requirements must be obtained before any
use, sewage treatment system, or building permit is issued for a lot. In
evaluating the variance, the Board of Adjustments shall consider sewage
treatment and water supply capabilities or constraints of the lot and shall
deny the variance if adequate facilities cannot be provided.
      (3)   If, in a group of 2 or more contiguous lots under the same
ownership the city shall follow M.S. § 462.357, Subd. 1e as amended to
determine whether an individual lot may be considered as a separate parcel of
land.
   (B)   Reconstruction and additions on conforming and nonconforming lots of
record.
      (1)   Any structure which is non-conforming due to its use (e.g.
commercial in a residential zoning district), which is damaged by any cause to
the extent of more than 50% of its market value, as determined by current
records of the County Assessor, shall not be restored except in conformance
with this section. Normal maintenance is permitted and may include necessary
nonstructural repairs and incidental alterations which do not enlarge the non-
conforming structure or intensity of the non-conforming use.
      (2)   Any structure which has a conforming use, which is damaged to any
extent and by any cause, may be reconstructed on a lot of record, in the office
of the county recorder on the date of enactment of this subchapter, which does
not meet the requirements of §§
154.288,
154.289, and
154.291, without variances from lot size requirements, setback requirements and
surface coverage requirements provided:
         (a)   The use is permitted in the zoning district;
         (b)   The lot has been in separate ownership from abutting lands at
all times since it became substandard;
         (c)   The building was compliant with official controls in effect at
the time;
         (d)   The non-conformity (e.g. setbacks, surface coverage) is not
increased; and
         (e)   Sewage treatment requirements of this chapter are met.
      (3)   Additions to structures with conforming uses which exist on any lot
of record, in the office of the county recorder on the date of enactment of
this subchapter, which does not meet the requirements of this chapter, may
occur provided:
         (a)   The use is permitted in the zoning district;
         (b)   The lot has been in separate ownership from abutting lands at
all times since it became substandard;
         (c)   The building was compliant with official controls in effect at
the time;
         (d)   The addition meets the setbacks outlined in the underlying
zoning district or the existing setback, whichever is greater, and the maximum
surface coverage does not exceed 35%.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
AVIATION REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.301 NOTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   An applicant who proposes the construction of any structure with a height
equal to or greater than 200 feet above ground level; or the alteration of any
structure to a height which is equal to or greater than 200 feet above ground
level shall notify the Minnesota Department of Transportation Commissioner and
the Federal Aviation Administration Commission of said proposal at least 30
days prior to the City Council's consideration of said request.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.302 PROOF OF NOTIFICATION.
   The applicant shall submit evidence to the city verifying the Minnesota
Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administration have been
duly notified of said proposed structure prior to City Council approval.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
ARCHITECTURAL CONTROL AND BUILDING MATERIALS
§ 154.311 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect and preserve property values
and the city's tax base, to provide for the general welfare of the city, and to
establish reasonable development standards for functional and aesthetic aspects
of buildings and structures.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.312 BUILDING MATERIALS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   Steel or aluminum buildings. Except in association with permitted
farming activities, no galvanized or unfinished steel or unfinished aluminum
buildings (walls or roofs), except those specifically intended to have a
corrosive designed finish shall be permitted in any zoning district.
      (2)   Building foundations. Building foundations not exceeding 2 feet and
other such portions of a building's facade need not comply with the
requirements for the primary facade treatment or materials.
   (B)   Single-family houses constructed in or moved into the city.
      (1)   Must be compatible with neighboring houses;
      (2)   Shall have a minimum width of 24 feet for at least 70% of its
length;
      (3)   Shall have a full load-bearing perimeter foundation, and a floor
loading capacity which complies with the requirements of the State Building
Code;
      (4)   Shall have a minimum roof pitch of 4:12;
      (5)   Shall have a minimum roof overhang of 2 feet on roofs with a 4:12
pitch; steeper roofs may have a shorter overhang, except that no roof may have
an overhang of less than 1 foot. All gable ends shall have a minimum roof
overhang of 1 foot;
      (6)   Shall have steps and safety rails that meet all requirements of the
State Building Code;
      (7)   Shall be designed to consist of exterior materials compatible with
residential development in the area with regard to architectural quality and
the massing of structures, and shall be designed with suitable fenestration.
   (C)   Duplexes, cluster houses, townhouses constructed in the city.
      (1)   Shall be designed to consist of exterior materials which are
compatible with residential development in the area with regard to
architectural quality and the massing of structures.
   (D)   Apartment buildings, institutional buildings, and commercial buildings
constructed in the city. Exterior materials should possess certain qualities
such as durability, scale, color, and detailing.
      (1)   Facades shall be constructed of approved materials which include 3
different classes.
         (a)   Class 1 materials include: brick, marble, granite, or other
natural stone, textured cement stucco, copper, porcelain, EIFS (exterior
insulated finish system), and glass.
         (b)   Class II includes: exposed aggregate concrete panels, burnished
concrete masonry units, integral colored split face (rock face) and exposed
aggregate concrete block, cast-in-place concrete, artificial stone, artificial
stucco (must be reinforced to prevent damage and be a drainage-type system),
fiber reinforced cement board siding, wood or wood-fiber siding, prefinished
metal.
         (c)   Class III materials include: unpainted or surface painted
concrete block (textured or untextured faces), unpainted or surface-painted
plain or ribbed concrete panels, unfinished, galvanized or surface painted
metal.
      (2)   Minimum material requirements: at least 50% of each building facade
visible from a public street or walkway must be of Class I materials, except as
approved under conditional use permit. Not more than 10% of each building
facade visible from a public street or walkway may be of Class III materials.
Portions of each building facade not visible from a public street or walkway
may be constructed of greater percentages of Class II or Class III materials.
      (3)   The mixture of building materials must be compatible and
integrated.
      (4)   Buildings shall have a mix of facade materials and design features
to reduce long, blank walls. Design features may include, among other features,
windows, doorways, cornices, niches, and recesses. In order to ensure
continuity of materials and facade treatments on all visible facades including
side and rear treatments, all building facades visible from a public street or
walkway shall employ materials and design features similar to those of the
front facade.
      (5)   Shall be designed to consist of exterior materials which are
compatible with development in the surrounding area with regard to
architectural quality and the massing of structures.
      (6)   Shall provide a fire lock box as per Jordan Fire Department Policy.
If any major alterations or additions are constructed the building will also be
required to install a fire lock box as per Jordan Fire Department Policy.
      (7)   Buildings within the C-2, Central Business District, shall comply
with the requirements of the Downtown Design Standard Manual.
      (8)   Buildings within the C-3, Highway Commercial district should comply
with the requirements of the Highway Commercial Design Standards Manual.
   (E)   Industrial buildings constructed in the city.
      (1)   Shall consist of 1 or more non-combustible, non-degradable, and
essentially maintenance-free exterior materials.
      (2)   May be designed with office/showroom areas extending out from the
principal mass of the building. If so designed, the exterior surfaces of such
office/showroom areas shall conform to the following:
         At least 33% of exterior surfaces facing the front lot line, and at
least 15% of exterior surfaces facing a side street, shall consist of brick,
natural stone, granite, stucco, copper or glass.
      (3)   May be designed so that burnished block and specialty block forms,
exposed aggregate concrete, concrete block, pre-cast concrete panels, wood,
anodized aluminum or similar metals are used, if appropriately integrated into
the overall building design and, in the case of wood, if not subject to damage
due to heavy use or exposure.
      (4)   Shall not consist of exterior materials such as sheet or corrugated
aluminum, or unfinished metals such as tin.
      (5)   Shall be compatible with surrounding industrial buildings.
      (6)   Shall provide a fire lock box as per Jordan Fire Department Policy.
If any major alterations or additions are constructed the building will also be
required to install a fire lock box as per Jordan Fire Department Policy.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.313 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   In all districts, buildings and structures must comply with the following:
   (A)   Architectural controls - site plan. All buildings and structures and
remodeling of either existing or new buildings shall take into account
compatibility related to architectural quality and mass of the structures to be
constructed. Elements of compatibility include, but are not limited to:
building form, mass, height and bulk; exterior materials and their appearance,
color and durability; setbacks; landscaping; exterior lighting, and site
improvements.
   (B)   Rooftop equipment must be incorporated into the building design so as
to be screened from view, covered, or shielded with quality materials matching
the exterior treatment of the building, or where the objective of this section
can be met, painted as to minimize any impact.
   (C)   Building utility services and structures such as meters, transformers,
refuse containers including dumpsters, ancillary equipment and the like shall
be located inside the principal building or inside an accessory building. Where
allowed, such structures and services may be located outside, where they shall
be entirely screened from off-site views.
   (D)   For new buildings, all utilities shall be underground.
   (E)   Exterior building finishes and architectural design of any accessory
buildings shall be consistent with the principal building.
   (F)   The design of the building and the materials composing the required
minimum percentages of the building must take into account the view of the
building from abutting streets and from other land uses.
   (G)   Building and architectural plans, along with samples of the exterior
materials, shall be submitted to the city.
   (H)   Prohibited fence materials. The following materials are prohibited
from being utilized:
 
Material                              Zoning District Where Prohibited
Chicken wire                          All districts
Barbed wire                           All districts
                                      All districts; however may be allowed in
Woven or welded wire or straight wire I-1 and I-2 for straight wire security if
                                      located above 6 feet high.
                                      All districts except when used during
Plastic webbing or netting            construction, for traffic control or
                                      police security.
Snow fence                            All districts except when use in the RR
                                      district to control snow.
Makeshift, flimsy materials such as   All districts except when used during
paper, twine, rope, tin and the like  construction or for traffic control or
                                      police security.
 
   (I)   Storm shelter. In cases where residential dwelling units are
constructed slab on-grade, any provisions shall be made to provide for storm
protection either internally to the unit or in a separate storm shelter
structure shall comply with State Building Code. Compliance with this
requirement shall be based upon Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
guidelines and standards which are on file with the City Building Official.
   (J)   Pole buildings. Pole building construction may be allowed for
principal structures in the I-1 and I-2 Industrial Districts, provided they are
designed with engineered concrete footings. Accessory structures in the I-1 and
I-2 Industrial Districts may be constructed with pole building construction
provided the building(s) will not be occupied and there are no water and/or
sewer services extended to the building(s).
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2016-07, passed 10-3-2016); Am. Ord.
2020-01, passed 2-3-2020
§ 154.314 REVIEW BOARD.
   An Architectural Control and Building Materials Review Board is hereby
established and shall consist of the following city officials: City
Administrator or designee, Zoning Administrator, and Building Inspector.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.315 REVIEW BOARD FUNCTION.
   The function of the Review Board is to review plans to construct or expand
any and all residential buildings, and any and all commercial/industrial
buildings containing more than 2,000 gross square feet of floor area for
conformity with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.316 APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No permit shall be issued for the construction, expansion, or moving into
the city of any residential building unless it meets the requirements of this
subchapter. No permit shall be issued for the construction of a new commercial/
industrial building larger than 2,000 gross square feet of floor area (g.s.f.),
for the moving into the city of an existing commercial/industrial building
larger than 2,000 g.s.f., for the placement, construction, or assembly of a
manufactured home, modular home, pre-cut home, or pre-fabricated home, or for
the expansion of an existing commercial/industrial building by more than 2,000
g.s.f., unless the permit application meets the requirements of this subchapter
and is approved by the Review Board. No permit shall be issued for significant
structural alterations of the exterior of any residential building, or of any
commercial/industrial building larger than 2,000 g.s.f., unless it meets the
requirements of this subchapter and is approved by the Review Board.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
GENERAL LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.321 LANDSCAPE FEE.
   Prior to issuance of a building permit, an applicant shall pay a fee for
landscape inspection in an amount set by City Council resolution adopting the
fee schedule. This fee will cover any costs the city may incur.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.322 LANDSCAPE ESCROW.
   Prior to issuance of a building permit for construction of the first
structure on a lot, an applicant shall post an escrow in an amount set by
resolution of the City Council to guarantee compliance with the city’s
landscaping requirements governed by city ordinance, a list of which is
available at City Hall. The city shall release the escrow once the applicant
has satisfied ALL requirements concerning landscaping. The city will not make
any PARTIAL escrow releases.
   (A)   Requirements. Prior to landscape escrows being released, the property
owner or builder shall:
      (1)   Provide a form to the City of Jordan stating the property is graded
to the approved plans and signed by a registered land surveyor.
      (2)   Grade yards and setback areas, except driveways and areas used as a
garage or accessory building, to final elevations.
      (3)   Sod or seed yard areas in accordance with § 154.324(B) and
landscape with trees that are of an acceptable variety, and shrubs if so
desired.
      (4)   Ensure that the property conforms with all other relevant
provisions of this section.
   (B)   Timeline. Said grading and landscaping shall be completed within 90
days after the certificate of occupancy is issued. If a certificate of
occupancy is issued between the months of November and April 15, the 90-day
period shall begin to run on April 15.
   (C)   Noncompliance. The city or its designee shall apply all costs for
remedial work or correction of landscaping deficiencies in the permittee’s
landscaping measures against the escrow. The city may draw on the escrow if all
areas of the site disturbed by construction activities are not restored within
the timeline required. The permittee shall also forfeit all escrow amounts held
by the city and its designees if work is not completed within the required
timeline. After providing 10 days written notice sent via U.S. mail to the
property owner, the City of Jordan may complete any work required under this
chapter and may draw against the escrow for payment of its costs. If the
necessary corrections cost more than the escrowed amount, the City of Jordan
may make the corrections and levy the cost of corrections as an assessment
against the property pursuant to M.S. Chapter 429 Local Improvements, Special
Assessments for a maximum of 1 year at an interest rate determined by Council.
A fee as set by resolution of the Council shall be added to, and become part
of, all assessments for landscaping improvements to cover city staff time,
noticing requirements, and filing fees.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020; Am. Ord.
2021-08, passed 8-2-2021)
§ 154.323 LANDSCAPING AND REQUIRED YARDS/SETBACKS.
   All developed uses shall provide a landscaped yard, including grass,
decorative stones, or shrubs and trees, along all streets. This yard shall be
kept clear of all structures, storage, and off-street parking.
   (A)   Except for driveways, the yard shall extend along the entire frontage
of the lot, and along both streets in the case of a corner lot: such yard shall
have a depth of at least 10 feet. Unless expressly permitted, no landscape
material, other than grass, shall be placed within drainage or utility
easements. Rock or riprap may be allowed upon review and approval by the City
Council provided the proposed material does not interfere with drainage or
utilities.
   (B)   Maintenance. Maintenance shall be the responsibility of the individual
property owner. All structures and areas requiring landscaping and fences shall
be maintained so as not to be unsightly or present harmful health or safety
conditions. This shall include the following for landscaping and plantings in
yard areas:
      (1)   Maintain a healthy, pest free condition.
      (2)   Remove dead, diseased or dangerous trees or shrubs or parts thereof
in accordance with requirements of §
90.051.
      (3)   Provide appropriate pruning per applicable forestry or
horticultural best practices.
      (4)   Mowing and/or removal of noxious weeds and grasses according to the
requirements of §
90.028.
      (5)   Establishing and sustaining sufficient groundcover to prevent
erosion and control sediment runoff.
      (6)   Remove trash and other debris.
      (7)   Watering and other maintenance to ensure plant growth and survival,
except when prohibited by citywide watering ban.
   (C)   Required yards and setback areas, except driveways and areas used as a
garage or accessory building, shall be graded to final elevations and sodded or
seeded in accordance with §
154.324(B) and landscaped with trees and shrubs.
   (D)   Tree and woodland preservation shall be accomplished in accordance
with the tree and woodland requirements of §
153.11(M).
   (E)   Parking lot landscaping. Requirements for parking lots are outlined in
§§
154.221 through
154.230.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2021-08, passed 8-2-2021)
§ 154.324 LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS RESIDENTIAL.
   (A)   Tree requirements. A minimum of 1 deciduous, disease-free, 2-inch
caliper tree, as measured 6 inches off the ground shall be planted within the
front yard setback area. The clump size equivalent to a 2-inch caliper tree
shall be at least 8 feet tall. The tree must be planted within the property
lines and in a location as not to interfere with sight line visibility at
maturity. Please ask to see the City of Jordan’s list of acceptable varieties,
available at City Hall.
   (B)   Landscaping yard areas. All yard areas shall be landscaped with turf
grass, shrubs, trees or an approved ornamental groundcover. Ornamental
groundcover may not exceed 49% of the total front yard area, including
easements and rights-of-way. Managed natural landscapes, as defined by M.S. §
412.925, are subject to §
154.326.
   (C)   Boulevards and easement areas.
      (1)   Retaining walls shall not be located within a drainage, access, or
utility easement or boulevard.
      (2)   The city may require the owner of any non-turf grass vegetation or
ornamental landscaping material, within a drainage and utility easement or a
right-of-way of a city street to remove said material from the public easement
on the property or public right-of-way abutting the property at no expense to
the city.
      (3)   The city will not be responsible for damage to any turf grass,
ornamental plantings, native plantings, or ornamental groundcover resulting
from public works improvements or snow removal activities within public rights-
of-way or easements.
   (D)   Traffic visibility. No wall, fence, structure, tree, shrub, vegetation
or other obstruction shall be permitted in any yard or setback which poses a
danger to traffic by obscuring the view from any street or roadway. Visibility
from any street or roadway shall be unobstructed within the triangle described
as beginning at the intersection of the projected curb property lines of 2
intersecting streets, thence 30 feet along 1 curb, thence diagonally to a point
30 feet from the point of beginning of the other curb line, thence to the point
of beginning.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2021.jpg]
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020; Am. Ord.
2021-08, passed 8-2-2021; Am. Ord. 2025-05, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 154.325 LANDSCAPE REQUIREMENTS COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL.
   (A)   Tree requirements. A minimum of 2 deciduous, disease-free, 2-inch
caliper tree, as measured 6 inches off the ground shall be planted within the
front yard setback area. The clump size equivalent to a 2-inch caliper tree
shall be at least 8 feet tall. The tree must be planted within the property
lines and in a location as not to interfere with sight line visibility at
maturity. Tree species planted must be from the current list of acceptable tree
species on file at City Hall.
   (B)   Landscaping coverage.  
      (1)   Commercial and industrial properties shall have diversified
landscape plantings in addition to the landscaping required in setback areas
for free-standing, detached structures. All landscaped areas are to be
developed with live deciduous and coniferous plants, trees and shrubs which
provide a variety of color, textures, heights, and forms consistent with the
needs of the site and other elements of the plan. All trees are to be according
to the above tree requirements. The landscaped areas may contain some stone,
wood, patio blocks, sculpture, and other appropriate ornamental features.
      (2)   The following zoning classifications will have the following
percentage of the lot landscaped.
         Neighborhood Business District:      ≥ 2%
         Central Business District:         ≥ 2%
         Highway Commercial:         ≥ 5%
         Industrial:               ≥ 2%
   (C)   Drainage and utility easements. With the exception of managed natural
landscapes regulated under §
154.326, plantings and retaining walls shall not be located within a drainage,
access or utility easement. The city or utility companies may clear any
plantings or retaining walls positioned in violation of the subdivision. The
city is not liable for any damage to plantings or retaining walls constructed
within the city’s easement.
   (D)   Traffic visibility. No wall, fence, structure, tree, shrub, vegetation
or other obstruction shall be permitted in any yard or setback which poses a
danger to traffic by obscuring the view from any street or roadway. Visibility
from any street or roadway shall be unobstructed within the triangle described
as beginning at the intersection of the projected property lines of 2
intersecting streets, thence 30 feet along 1 curb, thence diagonally to a point
30 feet from the point of beginning of the other curb line, thence to the point
of beginning.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020; Am. Ord.
2021-08, passed 8-2-2021; Am. Ord. 2025-05, passed 8-11-2025)
§ 154.326 NATIVE PLANTINGS.
   (A)   Findings and purpose.
      (1)   Findings. The city finds that traditional turf grass lawns require
large amounts of water, fertilizers and chemical pest controls to maintain.
Using large amounts of water to maintain lawns threatens the city’s groundwater
supply while fertilizers and chemical pest controls pollute our lakes, rivers
and streams. Alternative landscape techniques have significant advantages over
turf grass, specifically:
         (a)   Native vegetation requires less moisture, fertilizers, and
pesticides and places less stress on the public’s water resources. Native
vegetation also provides food and habitat to wildlife.
         (b)   Rain gardens filter and infiltrate stormwater, thereby
protecting surface water from polluted runoff and recharging groundwater
resources.
         (c)   Producing foods locally:
            1.   Increases local food security;
            2.   Addresses global warming by reducing fossil fuel use in
transportation of foods; and
            3.   Addresses the obesity epidemic by insuring access to healthy,
fresh foods.
      (2)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to prohibit the
uncontrolled growth of vegetation, while encouraging the planting and
maintenance of native vegetation, edible landscapes, and rain gardens. There
are reasonable expectations regarding the proper maintenance of vegetation on
any lot or parcel of land. Providing standards regarding the maintenance of
vegetation and encouraging diverse landscaping meets the following goals of the
city’s comprehensive plan:
         (a)   Create and maintain attractive and safe neighborhoods;
         (b)   Restore the city’s native vegetation;
         (c)   Encourage the local food production system; and
         (d)   Protect and improve the city’s surface waters through increasing
on-site infiltration in existing developed areas.
   (B)   Applicability. This section applies to all zoning districts.
   (C)   Landscape regulations.
      (1)   Plants allowed. Ornamental plants; native forbs and grasses; or
vegetable and fruit bearing plants are allowed in the landscape area, but they
must be planted pursuant to a design. The design must either be created by a
professional landscape designer or be consistent with Model Community Soil and
Water Conservation District (SWCD) standards.
      (2)   Restoration and establishment of managed natural landscapes.
Restoration or establishment of managed natural landscapes is allowed pursuant
to M.S. § 412.925. Restoration projects should be consistent with the Minnesota
DNR requirements and guidelines.
      (3)   Managed natural landscapes on city-owned-boulevards/rights-of way
may be allowed with the following conditions:
         (a)   An annual administrative permit is required for managed natural
landscapes on city-owned-boulevards/rights-of-way and may be revoked if
requirements are not met.
         (b)   The city, including Public Works Department, Fire Department and
Police Department, or utility companies may need to access the area for roads,
trees and utilities and are not responsible for any garden damage and are only
required to restore the boulevard with turf grass seed or sod.
         (c)   Vegetation shall not be within 40 feet of intersections and 10
feet of alleys and driveways.
         (d)   Vegetation in the boulevard may have a maximum height of 4 feet.
         (e)   One foot of clear space is required from sidewalks and streets.
         (f)   Three feet of clear space is required from neighboring property
boulevards.
         (g)   Three feet of clear space is required from fixed objects
including, trees, fire hydrants, poles, signs, cabinets, and maintenance holes.
         (h)   Three-foot-wide access points shall be maintained every 15 feet
to provide exit space for parked vehicles and access to the street and
sidewalk.
         (i)   May not obstruct sidewalks, bus stops, signs, accessible parking
spaces, loading zones, bikeways, snow plowing and clearing, public projects and
reconstruction, emergency services (such as fire hydrants).
         (j)   Wood chips, artificial turf, asphalt, stones smaller than 6
inches or larger than 10 inches are not allowed.
         (k)   Noxious weeds according to the Minnesota Department of
Agriculture are not allowed and must be removed.
         (l)   Plants with thorns, spines or sharp ridged parts are not
allowed.
         (m)   Must comply with the provisions of the M.S. § 216D.01 et seq.,
Gopher State One Call Law.
      (4)   Locations encouraged. Native plantings and forbs are encouraged
around ponds, wetlands and on slopes. Native plantings are also encouraged on
landscape areas with slopes equal to or greater than 3 feet horizontal to 1
foot vertical (3:1).
   (D)   Rain gardens. Rain gardens should be constructed consistent with the
document Rain Gardens: A How-to Manual for Homeowners, available from the
Minnesota DNR.
   (E)   Maintenance of landscaping. The owner, agent, or lessee of any real
property located within the city must provide regular weeding, pruning, and
other maintenance of all plantings located on said private property including
any managed natural landscapes on city-owned boulevards/rights-of-way. Plant
materials which exhibit evidence of pests, disease, or damage shall be
appropriately treated, and dead plants shall be removed or replaced. All native
plantings must be maintained either by removing weeds, mowing, or city approved
and permitted burning.
   (F)   Violation.
      (1)   Unattended vegetation. Every owner and responsible party who fails
to keep private property clear of unattended vegetation is in violation of this
section and subject to the remedies and enforcement specified herein.
      (2)   Prohibited vegetation. Every owner and responsible party is in
violation of this section and subject to the remedies and enforcement specified
herein if they fail to keep their private property clear of vegetation that:
         (a)   Presents a fire hazard;
         (b)   Attracts or harbors disease vectors;
         (c)   Obstructs sight lines for the traveling public on streets or
alleys; or
         (d)   Includes noxious weeds or secondary noxious weed as identified
by the State Commissioner of Agriculture pursuant to M.S. § 18.171, subd.5.
   (G)   Non-conforming landscape areas. Any planned landscape area or
restoration area which lawfully existed prior to the effective date of this
section may continue to exist, but shall comply with divisions (F) and (G) of
this section. Any expansion or addition to a non-conforming planned landscaped
area or restoration area shall comply with all provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2015-13, passed 12-7-2015; Am. Ord. 2021-08, passed 8-2-2021; Am. Ord.
2025-05, passed 8-11-2025)
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
§ 154.331 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to M.S. Chapter 462, Planning, Zoning,
et seq.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.332 PURPOSE AND APPLICATION.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to promote, preserve and
enhance the natural resources within the city and protect them from adverse
effects occasioned by poorly sited development or incompatible activities by
regulating land disturbing or development activities that would have an adverse
and potentially irreversible impact on water quality and unique and fragile
environmentally sensitive land; by minimizing conflicts and encouraging
compatibility between land disturbing and development activities and water
quality and environmentally sensitive lands; and by requiring detailed review
standards and procedures for land disturbing or development activities proposed
for such areas, thereby achieving a balance between urban growth and
development and protection of water quality and natural areas.
   (B)   Applicability. Every applicant as defined herein must submit a storm
water management plan to the City Administrator or designee. No building permit
involving land disturbing activities, including but not limited to construction
of new residential and/or commercial structures, and no preliminary plat for
the subdivision of land within the city, and no permit to allow land disturbing
activities, including but not limited to mining, excavation, filling and
grading, shall be issued until approval of the storm water management plan or a
waiver of the approval requirement has been obtained in strict conformance with
the provisions of this subchapter. The lawn fertilizer regulations provisions
of this subchapter apply to all land, public or private, located within the
city. The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to all properties within
the city for which mining or excavation conditional use permits have been
issued; said applicability shall become effective on the next annual review
date of a mining or excavation conditional use permit following the effective
date of this subchapter.
   (C)   Exemptions. The provisions of this subchapter do not apply to:
      (1)   Any part of a subdivision if a plat for the subdivision has been
approved by the Council on or before the effective date of this subchapter;
      (2)   Any land disturbing activity for which plans have been approved by
the watershed management organization within 6 months prior to the effective
date of this subchapter;
      (3)   A lot for which a building permit has been approved on or before
the effective date of this subchapter;
      (4)   Installation of fence, sign, telephone, and electric poles and
other kinds of posts or poles; or
      (5)   Emergency work to protect life, limb, or property.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.333 COMPREHENSIVE SURFACE WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application required.
      (1)   Any person, or political subdivision, undertaking an activity for
which a surface water management permit is required due land disturbing or
development activities shall first submit to the City of Jordan for review; a
surface water management permit application, design data, plans,
specifications, and such other information and exhibits as required by these
rules.
      (2)   The City of Jordan requires the submittal of the required
stormwater pollution prevention plans (SWPPP) for review and comment for all
new developments and redevelopments as early as possible in the sketch plan/
concept plan review process prior to the site plan or preliminary plat approval
process.
      (3)   In applying for a surface water management permit, the applicant
consents to entry upon the land for field inspections and monitoring, or for
performing any work necessary to bring the activity into compliance.
   (B)   Forms. A surface water management permit application shall be
submitted on forms provided by the City of Jordan. Forms are available at the
Jordan, City Hall.
   (C)   Action by the city. The City of Jordan shall approve or deny an
application containing all required information, exhibits and fees, in
accordance with M.S. § 15.99.
   (D)   Conditions.
      (1)   A surface water management permit may be approved subject to
reasonable conditions to assure compliance with these rules and other
applicable city ordinances, as amended. The conditions may include, but are not
be limited to, a requirement that the permittee and property owner, including,
if appropriate, any mortgagee, enter into an agreement with, and in a form
acceptable to, the city to:
         (a)   Specify responsibility for the construction and future
maintenance of approved surface water management structures,
         (b)   Document other continuing obligations of the permittee or owner,
         (c)   Grant reasonable access to the proper authorities for
inspection, monitoring and enforcement purposes,
         (d)   Affirm that the city or other political subdivisions can require
or perform necessary repairs or reconstruction of such structures,
         (e)   Require indemnification of the City of Jordan for claims arising
from issuance of the surface water management permit or construction and use of
the approved structures, and
         (f)   Reimburse the reasonable costs incurred to enforce the
agreement.
         (g)   Surface water management permits and agreements shall be
recorded at the Scott County Recorder's office to provide notice of the
conditions and continuing obligations.
   (E)   Issuance of surface water management permits. The city shall issue a
surface water management permit only after the applicant has satisfied all
requirements of these rules and other applicable city ordinance, as amended,
paid all required fees, entered into any required agreements, and submitted to
the city any required security. When the city issues a surface water management
permit where plans are required, the city shall endorse in writing or stamp the
plans and specifications as "APPROVED." All activity under the permit shall be
done in accordance with the approved plans and specifications, 1 set of which
shall be kept on the site of the activity at all times while the authorized
work is in progress.
   (F)   Validity. Issuance of a surface water management permit based on
plans, specifications, or other data shall not prevent the city from thereafter
requiring the correction of errors in the approved plans, specifications, and
data, or from preventing any activity being carried on hereunder in violation
of these rules.
   (G)   Modifications. The permittee shall not modify the approved activity,
plans, or specifications on file with the city without the prior written
approval of the city.
   (H)   Inspection and monitoring. After issuance of a surface water
management permit, the city may perform such field inspections and monitoring
of the approved activity as the city deems necessary to determine compliance
with the conditions of the surface water management permit, and the applicable
city ordinances, as amended. Any portion of the activity not in compliance
shall be promptly corrected by the permittee. The cost to the city for field
inspections, monitoring, and any work necessary to bring the activity into
compliance including services of consultants, shall be payable by the permittee
as provided in §
154.034.
   (I)   Suspension or revocation. The city may suspend or revoke a surface
water management permit issued under these rules wherever the permit is issued
in error or on the basis of incorrect information supplied, or in violation of
any provision of applicable city ordinance, as amended, or if the preliminary
and/or final subdivision plat approval is not consistent with the conditions of
the permit.
   (J)   Certification of completion.
      (1)   The city shall authorize the release of required securities from a
development agreement and/or building permit following city inspection and
receipt of written certification from a professional engineer licensed in the
State of Minnesota verifying completion of the activity in accordance with the
approved plans, specifications, and general conditions of the surface water
management permit.
      (2)   Record plans of final grades, building pads, public infrastructure,
and copies of documents, with evidence of recording where appropriate, that
establish easements or provide for maintenance of structures shall be filed
with the city before completion can be certified and final security is
released. All temporary, synthetic, and structural erosion prevention and
sediment control best management practices (BMPs), (e.g. silt fence) shall be
removed following approval of the certificate of completion before final
securities shall be released. No activity may be certified as complete if there
are any unpaid fees or other outstanding surface water management permit
violations.
   (K)   Other permits.
      (1)   The applicant shall secure all environmental permits and approvals
required by other governmental entities, and promptly provide the city with
copies of such permits and approvals after issuance.
      (2)   In the event the applicant fails to secure the appropriate permits
all related site work shall be suspended. Site work may resume when the
permitting agency has reviewed required applications and written permit
approval is forwarded to the city.
   (L)   Administration of rules. The City of Jordan shall have administrative
authority over the approved comprehensive surface water management plan and
associated rules, and/or ordinances, as amended. At any time within 15 business
days after a decision or determination by the city, or its agent, interpreting
or applying these rules, the applicant, permittee or any other person or
political subdivision with an interest in the decision or determination, may
appeal to the Jordan City Council. The Planning Commission, at a regular
meeting shall review evidence and provide to the City Council its
recommendation regarding the appeal. The City Council then at a regular or
special meeting, shall consider and affirm, reverse or remand the decision or
determination that is on appeal.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.334 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of the City of Jordan to protect the water
resources by requiring that all land-disturbing activities within the city
limits comply with minimum standards for the protection of surface water
quality and natural resources preservation.
   (B)   Regulation.
      (1)   All land disturbing activities, whether requiring a surface water
management permit under §§
154.331 through
154.341 or otherwise, shall be undertaken in conformance with approved BMPs, as
approved by the city, and in compliance with the standards and criteria set
forth in City Code
Ch. 150 Building Regulations,
Ch. 153 Subdivisions and
Ch. 154 Zoning, as amended.
      (2)   No person shall conduct land-disturbing activities without
protecting adjacent property and water bodies from erosion, sedimentation,
flooding or other damage.
      (3)   Land disturbing activities shall be planned and conducted to
minimize the extent of disturbed area, runoff velocities, erosion potential,
and to reduce and delay runoff volumes whenever possible. Erosion and runoff
controls, consistent with approved BMPs, shall be properly installed before
commencing land disturbing activities, and be sufficient to retain sediment on-
site. Erosion and runoff controls shall be regularly inspected and maintained
per the city approved stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) and National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System/State Disposal System (NPDES/SDS)
Construction Stormwater Permit requirements. Temporary and permanent vegetative
cover shall be installed and maintained until established over all disturbed
site areas per the approved SWPPP if the land disturbing activity ceases or is
suspended, and prior to issuance of certificate of completion. Pipe outlets
shall be provided with temporary or permanent energy dissipation if connected
to surface water.
      (4)   Land disturbing activities shall be planned and conducted to
minimize the extent of disturbed area, runoff velocities, erosion potential,
and to reduce and delay runoff volumes whenever possible. Erosion and runoff
controls, consistent with approved BMPs, shall be properly installed before
commencing land disturbing activities, and be sufficient to retain sediment on-
site. Erosion and runoff controls shall be regularly inspected and maintained
per the city approved stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) and National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System/State Disposal System (NPDES/SDS)
Construction Stormwater Permit requirements. Temporary and permanent vegetative
cover shall be installed and maintained until established over all disturbed
site areas per the approved SWPPP if the land disturbing activity ceases or is
suspended, and prior to issuance of certificate of completion. Pipe outlets
shall be provided with temporary or permanent energy dissipation if connected
to surface water.
      (5)   When possible, existing natural watercourses and vegetated soil
surfaces shall be used to convey, store, filter, and retain runoff before
discharge into public waters or public or private stormwater conveyance
systems.
      (6)   When possible, runoff from roof gutter systems shall discharge onto
lawns or other pervious surfaces to promote infiltration.
      (7)   Use of fertilizer and pesticides in the Shoreland District shall be
done so as to minimize runoff into public waters by the use of earth material,
vegetation, or both.
      (8)   When development density, topographic features, and soil and
vegetation conditions are not sufficient to adequately handle runoff using
natural features and vegetation, various types of constructed facilities such
as diversions, settling basins, skimming devices, dikes, watercourses, and
ponds may be used. Preference shall be given to designs using surface drainage,
vegetation, and infiltration rather than buried pipes and man-made materials
and facilities.
      (9)   Whenever the city determines that a land disturbing activity has
become a hazard to any person, endangers the property of another, adversely
affects water quality or any waterbody, increases flooding, or otherwise
violates this section or the applicable city ordinance, as amended, the owner
of the land upon which the land disturbing activity is located, or other
person, or agent in control of such land, upon receipt of written notice from
the city, shall, within the time period specified therein repair or eliminate
such conditions. The owner of the land upon which a land disturbing activity is
located shall be responsible for the cleanup and any and all damages resulting
from sediment transported off such land. The city may require the owner to
obtain a surface water management permit under §§
154.331 through
154.341 or the applicable city ordinance, as amended, before undertaking any
repairs or restoration. The city reserves the right to complete any work
required under this chapter and assess the cost against the property.
      (10)   No person shall develop, redevelop, or commence land disturbing
activities on bluffs located in the Bluff Overlay District without protecting
adjacent property and water bodies from erosion, sedimentation, flooding or
other damage.
   (C)   Bluff protection criteria.
      (1)   Minimum bluff standards. Any land disturbing activity, development,
or redevelopment of land in an area that meets the minimum criteria of bluff
standards in the comprehensive surface water management plan (CSWMP) shall
require a current topographic survey to determine if a bluff is present. At its
discretion, the city may waive the topographic survey requirement where a
review of the available contour information clearly indicates a bluff is not
present. Where bluffs are present the following rules shall apply:
         (a)   All grading, clear cutting, removal of vegetation and/or other
land disturbing activities are prohibited in the bluff impact zone and/of bluff
face;
         (b)   All structures shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from the
top of the bluff on all new lots or parcels created after the date of this
section adoption. Agricultural buildings shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet
from the top of the bluff;
         (c)   All individual and community sewage treatment systems (ISTS or
CSTS) shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from the top of the bluff impact
zone; and
         (d)   All stormwater ponds, swales, infiltration basins, or other soil
saturation-type features shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from the top of
the bluff impact zone.
      (2)   Additional limitations imposed by the City of Jordan comprehensive
surface water management plan. 
         (a)   To appropriately determine where land disturbing activity,
development, or redevelopment of land is allowed and is not allowed the city
shall reference/review such sources as: site topographic survey data, Unified
Soil Classification System (USCS) Soil Survey, Minnesota Land Cover
Classification System (MLCCS), Minnesota County Biological Survey (MCBS), etc.
The city shall also review the adopted comprehensive plan to determine which
upgradient bluff areas are currently planned for development.
         (b)   The area shall be deemed suitable for land disturbance if review
of the available information does not result in identification of a bluff
preservation area where disturbance would be prohibited. The characteristics
that may be used to determine the presence of a bluff preservation area may
include, but not be limited to: unsuitable topography based on topographic
survey, unstable soils based on the USCS Soil Survey, the presence of rare or
endangered native plant communities based on the MLCCS, or the presence of rare
or threatened biological features based on the MCBS.
      (3)   Permissible land disturbance on bluffs. For those bluffs not
located within a delineated bluff preservation area, grading, clear cutting,
removal of vegetation and/or other land disturbing activities may be allowed
within the bluff impact zone provided the activity is in compliance with the
policies identified in the CSWMP's minimum performance standards.
      (4)   The minimum SWPPP BMPs shall include rapid site stabilization and
slope restoration measures as needed to ensure the proposed activity shall not
result in:
         (a)   Adverse impact to adjacent and/or downstream properties or water
bodies,
         (b)   Unstable slope conditions, and
         (c)   Degradation of water quality due to erosion, sedimentation,
flooding, and other damage as stated in this section.
      (5)   Preservation of existing hydrology and drainage patterns. Land
disturbing activities shall not result in any new surface water discharge
points along the bluff.
      (6)   Protection of bluff face. All activities which would result in
disturbances or destabilization of the bluff face are prohibited, except as
follows:
         (a)   Maintenance, repair or replacement of public roads, and utility
and drainage systems that exist prior to adoption/creation of the bluff
preservation area.
         (b)   Disturbances that are part of the city approved plan to repair,
regrade, or re-slope existing bluff faces that are eroding or unstable as
necessary to establish stable slopes and vegetation.
         (c)   Vertical cuts into the bluff face up to 10 vertical feet,
measured from the existing top of the bluff, provided that no stormwater is
directed over the bluff face and stormwater runoff, including roof drainage, is
collected and conveyed to a stable discharge point.
         (d)   Plantings that enhance the natural vegetation or the selective
clearing of noxious, exotic, or invasive vegetation or the pruning of trees or
vegetation that is dead, diseased, or pose similar hazards.
      (7)   Prohibited land disturbance on bluffs. For those bluffs deemed
unsuitable for land disturbance activity and identified as a bluff preservation
area at any time during the review process, the following requirements shall
apply:
         (a)   All grading, clear cutting, removal of vegetation and/or similar
land disturbing activities are prohibited in the bluff impact zone and/or the
bluff face,
         (b)   All structures shall be set back a minimum of 30 feet beyond the
bluff impact zone,
         (c)   All individual and community sewage treatment systems (ISTS or
CSTS) shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from the bluff impact zone, and
         (d)   All stormwater ponds, swales, or other soil saturation-type
features shall be set back a minimum of 50 feet from the bluff impact zone.
      (8)   Standards for city-sponsored projects. The city shall demonstrate
that any city proposed activity in the bluff does not: 1) impact adjacent
properties, 2) result in unstable slope conditions and, 3) result in the
degradation of surface water or water bodies from erosion, sedimentation,
flooding and other damage as stated in division (B) of this section.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Where the city determines mining has been identified as
appropriate, mining activities shall be exempt from §§
154.331 through
154.341 that:
         (a)   An extractive use site development and restoration plan is
developed, approved by all applicable units of government, and followed
throughout the course of the project;
         (b)   The mining operation is conducted in such a manner as to
minimize interference with the surface water drainage outside of the boundaries
of the mining operation;
         (c)   That erosion and sediment control is provided in a manner
consistent with §§
154.331 through
154.341; and
         (d)   The landowner complies with all other applicable federal, state,
and local regulations governing mining.
      (2)   Disturbances, grading or re-grading of abandoned mine slopes
necessary to establish stable slopes and vegetation are exempt from §§
154.331 through
154.341.
      (3)   For the purposes of constructing public improvement projects, land
disturbances in the bluff impact zone and bluff face may be permitted providing
the applicant demonstrates to the city an appropriate need for these activities
to occur and that the applicant develops and follows procedures and sequences
to minimize impacts on the bluff area.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 154.335 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The City of Jordan requires developments or land disturbing
activities to comply with the policies identified in the CSWMP. Activities are
required to manage stormwater effectively, either on or off-site. To promote
and encourage a reduction in runoff rates, encourage infiltration and promote
increased groundwater recharge. Manage stormwater to minimize erosion, with an
emphasis on stabilizing flow rates and velocities and prioritizing critical
areas based on site characteristics, aesthetic conditions, and existing
vegetation. Promote development strategies, land use practices, and surface
water management activities that decrease and desynchronize peak runoff rates,
lengthen the watershed time of concentration, and raise base flow levels.
   (B)   Regulation. No person or political subdivision shall commence a land
disturbing activity or the development or redevelopment of land, unless
specifically exempted by division (C) below, without first developing an
approved project-specific SWPPP and obtaining all applicable permits from the
city and other governing agencies.
   (C)   Criteria. Project-specific stormwater management plans shall comply
with the following criteria:
      (1)   A hydrograph method based on sound hydrologic theory and approved
by the city shall be used to analyze stormwater runoff for the design and
analysis of flows and surface water levels.
      (2)   Stormwater runoff rates for the proposed activities, development,
or redevelopment shall:
         (a)   Not exceed existing runoff rates for the 2-year, 10-year and
100-year, 24-hour, storm events;
         (b)   Not accelerate on- or off-site water course erosion, downstream
nuisance, flooding or damage as demonstrated by the applicant according to
division (C)(3)(d) below; and
         (c)   Be restricted to less than the existing rates when necessary for
the public health, safety, and general welfare of the city.
      (3)   Runoff rates for the proposed activities in unincorporated areas
shall:
         (a)   Not exceed pre-settlement runoff rates for the 2-year, 10-year,
and 100-year, 24-hour storm events for land areas annexed into the city that
are currently within unincorporated areas of the Scott WMO (Note: As land is
annexed into a city, the land being annexed carries with it the existing
condition. Parcels developed after the date of this section within
unincorporated areas will be regulated using pre-settlement conditions and this
would then become the existing condition for the city once the area is annexed.
If agricultural land is annexed, agriculture is the existing condition. If
roads or streets are present they are part of the existing condition.)
         (b)   The following curve numbers shall be used to analyze pre-
settlement conditions:
 
Hydrologic Soil Group Runoff Curve Number
A                     30
B                     55
C                     71
D                     77
 
         (c)   For post-development runoff, drained hydric soils shall be
assumed to revert to an undrained condition unless the applicant demonstrates
that publicly owned and maintained drainage facilities shall be adequate to
maintain the drained condition.
         (d)   Post-development runoff shall not accelerate on or off-site
water course erosion, downstream nuisance, flooding or damage as demonstrated
by the applicant according to division (C)(4) below; and
         (e)   Runoff rates may be restricted to less than the pre-settlement
runoff rates when necessary for the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the City of Jordan.
         (f)   In situations where the smallest practical outlet as identified
by the city is being used and the site will not meet the 2-year discharge rates
as identified in the pre-settlement conditions, the site discharge may exceed
the pre-settlement 2-year discharge rate if the volume of the 2-year critical
duration event being discharged is less than existing 2-year discharge volume
from the site and the assessment required in division (C)(4) below is provided
and shows no impacts from the increased discharge rate.
      (4)   An assessment of the potential for adverse impacts downstream of
proposed site improvements, whether on- or off-site, is required except when
the proposed activity, development or redevelopment is less than 20 acres and
less than 8% of the site is covered by impervious surface, or when the rate
control provisions of divisions (C)(2), (3), and (5), as applicable, are met;
and the proposed activity, development, or redevelopment does not increase
runoff volume for the 2-year, 24-hour, storm event (not including snow melt).
To demonstrate that the proposed activity does not accelerate on- or off-site
erosion, downstream nuisance, flooding or damage, the applicant shall complete
an evaluation downstream to the point where the proposed activity is 10% of the
drainage area (e.g. a 10-acre development shall evaluate downstream to the
point where the drainage area is 100 acres). The evaluation at a minimum shall
consist of and include an assessment of:
         (a)   Potential impacts to areas surrounding landlocked lakes or
ponds, or lakes or ponds with inadequate outlets where flood levels would be
increased by added runoff volume;
         (b)   Water levels in the receiving water bodies resulting from the
contributing watershed’s full annual runoff yield during a 100-year wet year
using the simplified hydrologic yield method (SHYM), or other approved methods
for back-to-back 100-year, 24-hour storm events, for both existing conditions
and fully developed watershed conditions; and
         (c)   The identification of public and private structures (including
low floor and entry elevations of residences, and ISTS), and infrastructure
(sanitary sewer, stormwater pipes and facilities, and roads) surrounding the
receiving water bodies and located within 2 vertical feet of the future
conditions water level elevation predicted using the SHYM, or the elevation for
the back-to-back 100-year, 24-hour storm event.
      (5)   If there are public or private structures or infrastructure located
within 2 vertical feet of the future conditions SHYM, or back-to-back 100-year,
24-hour storm event elevation, the applicant shall either demonstrate that no
adverse impacts to health, safety, welfare, or property damage, would occur; or
shall provide corrective actions. Corrective actions shall include the
following as necessary to mitigate in proportion to the proposed project
impact:
         (a)   Controlling post-development runoff volumes at existing
conditions;
         (b)   Controlling runoff rates to less than existing conditions;
         (c)   Protecting or re-locating impacted structures or infrastructure,
or securing easements for additional flooded areas; or
         (d)   Other approved actions necessary to mitigate the impact.
      (6)   Potential impacts. In the event impacts to public or private
structures, downstream infrastructure, and erosion along the drainage path or
in downstream public waters are identified, an evaluation shall be required.
Evaluations shall include:
         (a)   The identification of existing public and private drainage
easements;
         (b)   The locations, condition, and dimensions of the existing
drainage infrastructure to the nearest regional stormwater facility;
         (c)   The location and elevation of structures with low floors, or
entries within 2 vertical feet of the 100-year flood level;
         (d)   The location and description of known existing flooding
problems;
         (e)   A hydrologic and hydraulic assessment of flooding impacts of the
proposed project on downstream public and private structures;
         (f)   An assessment of existing and potential watercourse erosion,
bank stability, bank protection, and watercourse slope;
         (g)   An assessment of the hydrologic and hydraulic capacity of the
downstream public and private infrastructure;
         (h)   An assessment of property damages including health, safety, and
welfare impacts relative to increased flooding of public and private
infrastructure. Minnesota Department of Transportation guidelines shall be used
to assess safety of flood levels at downstream driveways and road crossings.
      (7)   Identified property damage. In the event property damage, erosion,
public health, safety, and welfare impacts are identified, the applicant shall
provide approved corrective action. Corrective actions shall include the
following as necessary to mitigate in proportion to the proposed project
impact:
         (a)   Actions described in §
154.334;
         (b)   Obtaining easements;
         (c)   The installation of stream bank stability and protection
measures;
         (d)   The upgrading, protecting, or re-locating impacted
infrastructure; or
         (e)   Other approved actions necessary to mitigate the impact.
      (8)   Wetlands. Evaluate potential impacts to wetlands with exceptional
vegetative diversity or functional value (see §
154.337 for determination of exceptional value wetlands). Evaluations shall
include:
         (a)   Delineation and functional assessment of wetlands according to §
154.337.
         (b)   A hydrologic and hydraulic analysis of the before and after
project water level bounce and period of inundation for wetlands with
exceptional vegetative diversity for the 1-year, 2-year and 10-year, 24-hour
storm events.
         (c)   The applicant shall provide corrective actions that mitigate in
proportion to the proposed project impacts as specified in this rule; if the
water level bounce and period of inundation created by the storms evaluated in
this section exceeds the limit specified in Table (9)(a).
         (d)   Corrective actions shall consist of runoff rate and volume
controls necessary to keep the water level bounce and period of inundation
within the limits specified in Table (9)(a).
      (9)   All storm drainage conveyance systems shall have capacity for the
runoff from a 10-year, 24-hour, storm event. All storm drainage ponds and
related facilities shall be designed to store the runoff from the 100-year, 24-
hour, storm event or accumulative antecedent conditions without damage to the
system or facility, downstream areas and/or significant risk to public health,
safety, and welfare unless waived in accordance with this section.
         (a)
 
Hydroperiod      Highly      Moderately      Slightly         Least-susceptible
standard         susceptible susceptible     susceptible      wetlands*
                 wetlands*   wetlands*       wetlands*
Storm bounce 1               Existing plus   Existing plus
and 2-year       Existing    0.5 feet        1.0 feet         No limit
events
Period of
inundation for 1 Existing    Existing plus 1 Existing plus 2  Existing plus 7
and 2-year                   day             days             days
events
Period of                    Existing plus 7 Existing plus 14 Existing plus 21
inundation for   Existing    days            days             days
10-year event
*See definitions
 
         (b)   Regional detention basins shall be utilized to manage peak flow
rates and runoff volumes, and meet water quality objectives when required by
the city. On-site stormwater detention basins, volume control facilities, and
permanent sedimentation and water quality ponds shall be utilized for land
disturbing activities, the development or redevelopment of land that creates
greater than 1 acre of impervious surface when regional basins are not in place
or feasible, or would not otherwise meet requirements for the protection of
downstream areas according to §§
154.331 through
154.341 that are located between the project and the regional basin.
         (c)   The city may approve alternative BMPs instead of permanent
sedimentation and water quality ponds if it finds that the water quality
performance of the proposed alternative BMPs is equivalent to that of a
permanent sedimentation and water quality pond designed according to the
criteria set forth for permanent sedimentation and water quality ponds in
division (C)(11) below. The generally accepted performance of permanent
sedimentation and water quality ponds designed to these criteria is 80% total
suspended solids removal on an annual average basis. The assumed performance
for the proposed BMPs shall be based on information from independent laboratory
work, studies, or reference materials including the Minnesota Urban Small Sites
BMP Manual (Metropolitan Council 2001), as such manual may be amended, revised,
or supplemented. The city may require monitoring of alternative practices and
contingency plans similar to the requirements for the general permit
authorization to discharge stormwater associated with construction activity
under the NPDES/SDS permit program permit MN RI 00001 (NPDES/SDS general
construction permit) issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, August
1, 2003, as amended.
         (d)   Analysis of flood levels, storage volumes, and flow rates for
downstream water bodies and detention basins shall be based on the range of
rainfall and snow melt durations producing the critical flood levels and
discharges.
      (10)   Landlocked water basins may be provided with outlets if an outcome
based analysis and resource oriented management review regarding downstream
impacts is completed that demonstrates:
         (a)   A hydrologic regimen is maintained that complies with §§
154.337 and
154.339;
         (b)   Dead storage is provided to retain the fully developed future
conditions SHYM predicted water volumes, or the back to back 100-year, 24-hour
storm event volume, above the highest anticipated groundwater elevation to the
extent possible while preventing damage to property adjacent to the basin;
         (c)   The outlet does not create adverse downstream flooding or water
quality conditions, or materially affect stability of downstream watercourses
according to the criteria in division (C)(4) of this section;
         (d)   Proposed development tributary to the land-locked basin has
incorporated runoff volume control practices to the extent practical;
         (e)   There is a demonstrated need for an outlet to protect existing
structures and infrastructure; and
         (f)   The outlet design is part of an approved project-specific SWPPP.
      (11)   Detention ponds and other permanent stormwater quality management
basins shall be designed to provide:
         (a)   An outlet structure to control the 2-year, 10-year, and 100-
year, 24-hour storm events to runoff rates specified in §§
154.331 through
154.341 amended;
         (b)   An identified overflow spillway and downstream route
sufficiently stabilized to convey the 100-year, 24-hour storm event;
         (c)   A normal water elevation above the ordinary high water (OHW) of
adjacent water bodies or normal water level (NWL) where an OHW is not
established; and
         (d)   Ten-foot wide vehicular access road to the outlet control
structure for future maintenance.
      (12)   Permanent stormwater quality management must be provided in
accordance with the NPDES general construction permit no: MN RI 00001 (as
amended).
      (13)   Any new residential, commercial, industrial, and other habitable
structures shall be constructed with the following minimum low floor
elevations:
         (a)   Where the 100-year flood level has been established, low floor
elevations shall be at least 1 foot above the 100-year flood level. Where the
HWL of an adjacent basin has been established, low floor elevations shall be at
least 1 foot above the HWL. Elevation of the lowest opening of a structure
shall be a minimum of 1 foot above the emergency overflow elevation, or 2 feet
above the HWL of the adjacent pond or waterbody, whichever is higher.
         (b)   For public waters and public water wetlands (DNR protected water
bodies) where the 100-year flood level has not been established, low floor
elevations shall be at least 3 feet above the ordinary high water level (OHW).
         (c)   The city shall require a minimum of 3 feet of freeboard above
the 100-year back to back 24-hour rainfall event elevation for landlocked
basins or ponds where emergency overflows cannot be provided.
         (d)   In all other cases, the low floor elevation shall be at least 3
feet above the highest known water level.
         (e)   The lowest exposed floor or opening elevation of structures that
are adjacent to ponds shall be indicated on the site grading plan to ensure
adequate freeboard. All new structures must have a certificate of survey
supplied by the applicant for the city that clearly identifies the as-built low
floor elevation and lowest opening elevations. Low floor elevations and lowest
opening elevations must comply with the approved development plans, where
applicable.
      (14)   Exhibits. The following represents the City of Jordan stormwater
management project submittal checklist. The following exhibits shall accompany
the project review application.
         (a)   Property lines and delineation of lands under ownership of the
applicant.
         (b)   Existing and proposed site contour elevations at a minimum of 2-
foot intervals.
         (c)   Delineation of the subwatershed contributing runoff from any/all
off-site sources. Proposed and existing subwatersheds on-site. Emergency
overflows and watercourses.
         (d)   Proposed and existing stormwater facilities location, alignment,
and elevation.
         (e)   Delineation of existing on-site wetland, marsh, shoreland, and
floodplain areas.
         (f)   For applications proposing infiltration as volume control; the
identification, description, permeability, hydrologic soil group (HSG)
classification and approximate delineation of site soils in both existing and
proposed post-development conditions.
         (g)   The existing and proposed OHW and 100-year high water elevations
on-site.
         (h)   Construction plans and specifications for all proposed
stormwater management facilities, including design details for outlet controls.
         (i)   Stormwater runoff volume and rate analysis for the 2-year, 10-
year, and 100-year, 24-hour storm events for existing and proposed conditions.
         (j)   All hydrologic, water quality, and hydraulic computations made
in designing the proposed stormwater management facilities.
         (k)   Narrative addressing incorporation of infiltration BMP’s.
         (l)   Delineation of all ponding flowage, drainage easement, or other
property interest to be determined for stormwater management purposes.
      (15)   Maintenance. All stormwater management structures and facilities
shall be maintained in perpetuity to assure that the structures and facilities
function as originally designed. The responsibility for maintenance shall be
assumed either by the City of Jordan, or by the applicant entering into a
compliance agreement with the city.
      (16)   Easements. The applicant shall establish, in a form acceptable to
the city, dedicated easements and/or outlets, for ponding, flowage, and
drainage purposes over hydrologic features such as water bodies and stormwater
basins. The outlets and/or easements shall include the right of ingress and
egress for inspection, monitoring, maintenance, and enforcement purposes.
      (17)   Outlots. The City of Jordan may require that the land be placed in
an outlet or a conservation easement, in form acceptable to the city, to
prevent the future expansion of impervious surface and the loss of infiltration
capacity.
      (18)   Exceptions. No surface water management permit or stormwater
management plan shall be required under this rule for the following land
disturbing activities:
         (a)   Minor land disturbing activities such as home gardens, repairs,
and maintenance work, including reseeding or sodding as necessary.
         (b)   Construction, installation and maintenance of ISTS other than
those on steep slopes, on riparian lots within a Shoreland District or in a
bluff impact zone.
         (c)   Construction, installation and maintenance of public utility
lines or individual service connections unless the activity disturbs more than
1 acre, in which event division (G)(4) of this section below shall apply.
         (d)   A land disturbing activity that does not cause off-site erosion,
sedimentation, flooding, or other hazards or damage, and disturbs:
            1.   In the Shoreland District, an area less than 10,000 square
feet or less than 100 linear feet of shoreline; in conformance with the City of
Jordan Shoreland subchapter for requiring erosion prevention and sediment
control BMPs with building permits in a manner consistent with this rule and
applicable city ordinances, as amended; or
            2.   Outside of the Shoreland District, an area of less than 1 acre
in conformance with the City of Jordan Subdivision Ordinance for requiring
erosion prevention and sediment control BMPs with building permits in a manner
consistent with this rule and applicable city ordinances, as amended.
         (e)   Construction of any structure or associated land disturbing
activity on an individual parcel in a subdivision with a stormwater management
plan approved by the city, so long as any land disturbing activity complies
with the approved plan.
         (f)   Development or redevelopment of, or construction of a structure
on, an individual parcel with a land disturbing activity that does not cause
off-site erosion, sedimentation, flooding, or other damage.
         (g)   Installation of any fence, sign, telephone, or electric poles,
or other kinds of posts or poles.
         (h)   Emergency activity necessary to protect life or prevent
substantial harm to persons or property.
         (i)   Redevelopment projects are exempt from criteria in divisions (C)
(2) and (12) of this section. Note: For the purposes of this rule if an
activity creates more than 1-acre of new or additional impervious surface the
activity is considered new development and the exception shall not apply.
         (j)   All land disturbing activities not required by §§
154.331 through
154.341 to obtain a surface water management permit or have an approved
stormwater management plan shall nevertheless be conducted in full compliance
with §
154.334.
         (k)   Minor wetland impacts that have received a "Certificate of
Exemption or No Loss Determination" by the City of Jordan in the capacity of
administering the Wetland Conservation Act, as amended.
         (l)   All maintenance, repair, resurfacing, and reconditioning
activities of existing roads, bridges, and highway systems which do not involve
land disturbing activities outside of the existing surfaced roadway.
         (m)   Land disturbing activities associated with the construction of
conservation practices by the SWCD or the Natural Resources Conservation
Service (NRCS) provided that erosion prevention and sediment control practices
are used in a manner consistent with this rule and applicable city ordinances,
as amended.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2022-01, passed 2-28-2022)
§ 154.336 EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of the City of Jordan to require the
preparation, review, approval, and implementation of a SWPPP to control
construction runoff, erosion, and sediment mobilization on-site during all land
disturbing activities.
   (B)   Regulation. No person or political subdivision shall commence a land
disturbing activity, unless specifically exempted by division (G) below,
without first obtaining a surface water management permit from the City of
Jordan that incorporates a SWPPP meeting the requirements of the MPCA for the
activity, development, or redevelopment.
   (C)   Criteria. Any SWPPP and the corresponding land disturbing activity
shall comply with the following criteria:
      (1)   Stormwater pollution prevention measures shall be consistent with
approved BMPs, and shall be sufficient to retain construction-generated
sediment on-site.
      (2)   Stormwater pollution controls shall be installed on all down
gradient perimeters before commencing the land disturbing activity, and shall
not be removed without City of Jordan approval or receipt of a certificate of
completion pursuant to §
154.333.
      (3)   Stormwater pollution prevention measures shall meet the standards
for the General Permit Authorization to Discharge Stormwater Associated with
Construction Activity Under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination
System/State Disposal System Permit Program MN R100001 (NPDES/SDS General
Construction Permit) issued by the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency, August
1, 2003, as amended; except where more specific requirements are provided in
divisions (C)(4) and (5) of this section.
      (4)   If the activity is taking place on a site where the soils are
currently disturbed (e.g. a tilled agricultural site that is being developed),
those areas that shall not be disturbed as part of the development or according
to the timeframes and slopes specified in the NPDES/SDS General Construction
permit Part IV.B.2, shall be seeded with temporary or permanent cover before
commencing the proposed land disturbing activity.
      (5)   Where 5 or more acres of disturbed soil drain to a common location,
a temporary (or permanent) sediment basin shall be provided prior to the runoff
leaving the site or entering surface waters. The basins shall be designed
according to the standards set forth in §
154.335.
      (6)   The permittee or applicant shall be responsible for final
stabilization of the site in accordance with the contract documents and the
NPDES/SDS General Construction Permit requirements. The site shall be
considered as having achieved final stabilization following submission of
certificate of completion by the permittee or applicant, and inspection and
approval by the City of Jordan as specified in §
154.333.
      (7)   All temporary on-site stormwater conveyance channels shall be
designed and constructed to withstand the expected velocity and flow from a 10-
year, 24-hour storm without erosion.
      (8)   The SWPPP shall meet the requirements of the NPDES/SDS General
Construction Permit outlined in Appendix D of the CSWMP: Stormwater Pollution
Prevention Plan Checklist.
      (9)   Prior to issuance of a building permit, an applicant shall pay a
fee for erosion control inspection in an amount set annually by the Jordan Fee
Schedule.
      (10)   Prior to issuance of a building permit, an applicant shall post an
escrow in an amount set by the Jordan Fee Schedule to guarantee compliance with
the city's ordinances concerning erosion control. The city may combine the
escrow with any other escrows held by the city for the property for the type of
construction taking place on the site. The city shall release the escrow once
the applicant has satisfied ALL requirements concerning erosion control. The
city will not make any PARTIAL escrow releases. The city or its designee shall
apply all costs for remedial work or correction of erosion control deficiencies
in the permittee's erosion control measures against the escrow. The city may
draw on the escrow if all areas of the site disturbed by construction
activities are not restored within 90 days from the date that a certificate of
occupancy is issued. The permittee shall forfeit all escrow amounts held by the
city and its designees if work is not completed within 120 days after an
occupancy permit is issued for the structure. The City of Jordan reserves the
right to complete any work required under this chapter and to draw against the
escrow for payment of its costs.
      (11)   Prior to grading activities occurring to property, the developer
shall post an escrow in an amount set by ordinance of the City Council.
         (a)   The City Council may request financial security greater than
that stated in the fee schedule if the city considers the development site is
especially prone to erosion, or the resource to be protected is especially
valuable.
         (b)   The project's developer's contract shall clearly state that the
city may draw from the TOTAL security provided pursuant to the development
contract to pay for the performance of the work approved by the city in the
storm water pollution control plan and any storm water pollution control plan
related remedial work.
         (c)   Maintaining the escrow. If at any time during the course of the
work this amount falls below 50% of the required deposit because the city has
drawn it down, the developer shall add a sufficient sum to the escrow to
restore the escrow to the required amount.
      (12)   The developer shall bring the financial security back up to the
required amount within 7 days after the city provides written notice via
certified mail that the amount has fallen below 50% of the required amount. If
the developer fails to do so, the city may do 1 or both of the following:
         (a)   Withhold the scheduling of inspections and/or the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy.
         (b)   Revoke any permit issued by the city to the applicant for the
site in question.
      (13)   Proportional reduction of the escrow. When more than half of the
development's exposed soil area achieves final stabilization, the city can
reduce the total required amount of the escrow by half, if recommended by the
City Engineer.
   (D)   Exhibits. The following exhibits shall accompany the project review
application:
      (1)   An existing and proposed topographic map showing contours on and
adjacent to the land, property lines, all hydrologic features, the proposed
land disturbing activities, and the locations of all runoff, erosion and
sediment controls and soil stabilization measures.
      (2)   SWPPP and specifications, if applicable, for the proposed runoff,
erosion, and sediment controls and temporary and permanent soil stabilization
measures.
      (3)   Detailed schedules for implementation of land disturbing
activities, the erosion and sediment controls, and soil stabilization measures.
      (4)   Detailed descriptions of the methods to be employed for monitoring,
maintaining, and removing the erosion and sediment controls, and soil
stabilization measures.
      (5)   Soil borings if requested by the City of Jordan.
   (E)   Maintenance. The permittee or applicant shall be responsible for
proper installation, operation, and maintenance of all stormwater pollution
controls, and soil stabilization measures, in conformance with approved BMPs,
and in conformance with the maintenance requirements in the NPDES/SDS General
Construction Permit. The permittee or applicant is responsible for the
operation and maintenance of temporary erosion prevention and sediment control
BMPs for the duration of the construction work at the site. The permittee or
applicant is responsible until another permittee or applicant has assumed
control of the site according to the NPDES/SDS permit documentation over all
areas of the site that have not been finally stabilized or until the site has
undergone final stabilization, and has received an approved certificate of
completion in accordance with §
154.333.
   (F)   Security. Any security required in accordance with §
154.341 shall be maintained until final site stabilization and removal of
erosion and sediment control BMPs have taken place, and the payment of all fees
and other amounts due the City of Jordan have been received and processed.
   (G)   Exceptions. No surface water management permit or SWPPP shall be
required under this rule for the following land disturbing activities:
      (1)   Minor land disturbing activities such as home gardens, repairs, and
maintenance work.
      (2)   Construction, installation, and maintenance of ISTS other than
those on steep slopes, on riparian lots within a Shoreland District or in a
bluff impact zone.
      (3)   Construction, installation and maintenance of public utility lines
or individual service connections unless the activity disturbs more than 1
acre, in which event §
154.335(G)(4) shall apply.
      (4)   A land disturbing activity that does not cause off-site erosion,
sedimentation, flooding, or other hazards or damage, and disturbs:
         (a)   In the Shoreland District, an area less than 10,000 square feet
or less than 100 linear feet of shoreline; in conformance with the City of
Jordan Shoreland Ordinance for requiring erosion prevention and sediment
control BMPs with building permits in a manner consistent with this rule and
applicable city ordinances, as amended; or
         (b)   Outside of the Shoreland District, an area of less than 1 acre
in conformance with the City of Jordan Subdivision Ordinance for requiring
erosion prevention and sediment control BMPs with building permits in a manner
consistent with this rule and applicable city ordinances, as amended.
      (5)   Installation of any fence, sign, telephone, electric pole, or other
kinds of posts or poles.
      (6)   Emergency activity necessary to protect life or prevent substantial
harm to persons or property.
      (7)   Minor wetland impacts that have received a "Certificate of
Exemption or No Loss Determination" by the City of Jordan in the capacity of
administering the Wetland Conservation Act, as amended.
      (8)   All maintenance, repair, resurfacing, and reconditioning activities
of existing roads, bridges, and highway systems which do not involve land
disturbing activities outside of the existing surfaced roadway.
      (9)   Land disturbing activities associated with the construction of
conservation practices by the SWCD or the Natural Resources Conservation
Service (NRCS) provided that erosion prevention and sediment control practices
are used in a manner consistent with this rule and applicable city ordinances,
as amended.
      (10)   All land disturbing activities not required by this rule and
applicable city ordinances, as amended, to obtain a surface water management
permit or have an approved SWPPP shall nevertheless be conducted in full
compliance with §
154.334.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.337 WETLANDS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of the City of Jordan to:
      (1)   Achieve no net loss of wetlands, in conformance with the Minnesota
Wetland Conservation Act (WCA) and associated rules (Minnesota Rules 8420).
      (2)   Encourage wetland avoidance for all new developments and land
disturbing activities.
      (3)   Require mitigation of unavoidable wetland disturbance by replacing
the lost wetland functions and values in the same major watershed with a
wetland of equal or greater value.
      (4)   Require transportation projects to pursue wetland mitigation
projects to the extent practical along the transportation corridor. (This does
not preclude the use of the BWSR Replacement Program.)
      (5)   Identify and preserve wetlands for water retention, recharge, soil
conservation, wildlife habitat, aesthetics, and natural enhancement of water
quality.
      (6)   Manage changes in volume and quality of local stormwater systems to
minimize negative impacts to existing wetland functions, value, or biological
diversity.
   (B)   Regulation.
      (1)   No person or political subdivision shall drain, fill, excavate, or
otherwise alter a wetland or public waters wetland without first obtaining the
approval of a wetland replacement plan from the City of Jordan.
      (2)   For any parcel created or redeveloped after August 9, 2006, a
buffer shall be maintained around the perimeter of all wetlands and public
waters wetlands. The buffer provisions of this section
shall not apply to any parcel of record as of August 9, 2006 until such parcel
is subdivided or land disturbing activities commence.
      (3)   The buffer portions of this rule do not apply to any wetland or
public waters wetland with a surface area equal to or less than the area of
wetland impact allowed without replacement as de minimus under the WCA, and to
those portions of wetlands that shall be filled under approved wetland
replacement plans per the WCA.
   (C)   Criteria.
      (1)   Any drainage, filling, excavation or other alteration of a public
waters wetland or wetland shall be conducted in compliance with M.S. §
103G.245, the WCA, and regulations adopted thereunder.
      (2)   A public waters wetland or wetland may be used for stormwater
storage and treatment only if the use shall not adversely affect the function
and public value of the wetland as determined by the City of Jordan.
      (3)   Wetland replacement/mitigation siting shall follow the priority
order below:
         (a)   Mitigation on-site;
         (b)   Mitigation within the same minor watershed boundary;
         (c)   Mitigation within the major watershed boundary;
         (d)   Mitigation within Scott County; and
         (e)   Mitigation within the same regional watershed boundary.
   (D)   Functional assessment.
      (1)   A wetlands functional assessment for vegetative diversity shall be
completed with each wetland, and public waters wetlands, delineated for a
project and buffers established according to the following table. The
functional assessment and wetland rankings shall be determined using the
Minnesota Routine Assessment Method version 3.0 (MnRAM 3.0, as amended).
Rankings are summarized as follows.
 
Buffer Requirement   Exceptional High    Medium  Low     Stormwater Ponds
Average Buffer Width 65 feet     50 feet 35 feet 25 feet 0
Minimum Buffer Width 25 feet     25 feet 25 feet 25 feet 0*
*Shall have a building setback of 10 feet from the edge of undisturbed wetland
buffer.
         (a)   "Exceptional" wetland – are wetlands assigned the exceptional
rating using MnRAM 3.0 for evaluating wetland functions. These wetlands are
most susceptible to human impacts, are most unique, have the highest community
resources significance such as rare species habitats, and similar
characteristics.
         (b)   "High" wetland – are wetlands assigned the high rating using
MnRAM 3.0 for evaluating wetland functions. These wetlands are relatively
undisturbed but exhibit evidence of more disturbance or degradation than
exceptional wetlands. High wetlands have conditions and functions that are
susceptible to human impacts, are connected to other wetlands or watercourses,
and may contain locally significant or rare wetland types.
         (c)   "Moderate" wetlands – are wetlands assigned a moderate rating
using MnRAM 3.0 for evaluating wetland functions. These wetlands typically
provide a diversity of habitats, and are connected to other wetland or upland
habitats to provide wildlife habitat.
         (d)   "Low" wetlands – are wetlands assigned a low rating using the
MnRAM 3.0 for evaluating wetland functions. These wetlands tend to be less
susceptible to further impacts than the other wetland management
classifications. They also have low diversity and connectivity to other
wetlands and watercourses.
   (E)   Stormwater ponds. Stormwater ponds are designated strictly for
treating and retaining stormwater.
      (1)   All structures shall have a minimum setback of 35 feet from the
delineated edge of wetlands and public waters wetlands.
      (2)   The first 25 feet of buffer as measured from the wetland or public
waters wetland cannot be disturbed during project construction (i.e., cleared
or graded, except for temporary disturbances for public roads and utility
construction) and shall be protected from disturbance with temporary fencing
prior to construction. Vegetation can be replaced and site soils preparation
work completed within this first 25 feet if necessary to establish acceptable
vegetation in accordance with division (F) of this section.
      (3)   Buffers shall apply whether or not the wetland or public waters
wetland is on the same parcel as a proposed development. An applicant shall
delineate the boundary for any wetland or public waters wetland on the project
land. An applicant shall not be required to delineate wetlands on adjacent
property, but shall review available information to estimate the wetland
boundary.
   (F)   Vegetation. Buffer vegetation shall be established and maintained as
follows:
      (1)   Where acceptable natural vegetation exists in buffer areas, the
retention of such vegetation in an undisturbed state is required unless an
applicant receives approval from the City of Jordan to replace such vegetation.
A buffer has acceptable natural vegetation if it:
         (a)   Has a continuous, dense layer of perennial grasses that has been
uncultivated or unbroken for at least 5 consecutive years;
         (b)   Has an overstory of trees and/or shrubs that has been
uncultivated or unbroken for at least 5 consecutive years; or
         (c)   Contains a mixture of the plant communities described in this
division (F), above that has been uncultivated or unbroken for at least 5
years.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the performance standards set forth in §
154.335(F)(1), the City of Jordan may determine existing buffer vegetation
unacceptable if:
         (a)   It is composed of undesirable plant species including but not
limited to common buckthorn, purple loosestrife, leafy spurge, or noxious
weeds;
         (b)   It resides on topography that tends to channelize the flow of
runoff; or
         (c)   For some other reason it is unlikely to retain nutrients and
sediment.
      (3)   Where buffers are not vegetated or have been cultivated or
otherwise disturbed within 5 years of the surface water management permit
application, such areas shall be replanted and maintained by the applicant. The
buffer plantings shall be identified on the surface water management permit
application. The buffer landscaping shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   Buffers shall be planted with a seed mix approved by MnDOT,
BWSR, NRCS, or SWCD, with the exception of a 1-time planting with an annual
nurse or cover crop such as oats or rye.
         (b)   The seed mix shall be broadcast according to MnDOT, BWSR, NRCS,
or SWCD specifications for the selected mix. The annual nurse cover crop shall
be applied at a minimum rate of 30 pounds per acre. The MnDOT, BWSR, or NRCS
seed mix selected for permanent cover shall be appropriate for the soil site
conditions and free of invasive species.
         (c)   Native shrubs may be substituted for native forbs. All
substitutions shall be approved by the City of Jordan. Such shrubs may be bare
root seedlings and shall be planted at a minimum rate of 60 plants per acre.
Shrubs shall be distributed so as to provide a natural appearance and shall not
be planted in rows.
         (d)   Any groundcover or shrub plantings installed within the buffer
shall be considered independent of any landscaping required elsewhere by the
City of Jordan.
         (e)   Grasses and forbs shall be seeded or planted using a method of
application that shall be approved by the City of Jordan prior to planting or
seeding.
         (f)   No fertilizer shall be used in establishing new buffers, except
on highly disturbed sites when necessary to establish acceptable buffer
vegetation and then limited to amounts indicated by an accredited soil-testing
laboratory.
         (g)   All seeded areas shall be mulched immediately with clean straw
at a rate of 1.5 tons per acre. Mulch shall be certified, weed free and
anchored with a disk or tackifier.
         (h)   Buffers (both natural and created) shall be protected by erosion
and sediment control measures during construction in accordance with §
154.336. The erosion and sediment control measures shall remain in place until
the area crop is established.
      (4)   Buffer vegetation shall be established and maintained in accordance
with the requirements found in this division (F). During the first 2 full
growing seasons, the owner shall replant any buffer vegetation that does not
survive. The applicant shall be responsible for reseeding or replanting if the
buffer changes at any time through human intervention or activities. At a
minimum the buffer shall be maintained as a "no mow' area.
   (G)   Requirements. When a buffer is required the applicant shall, as a
condition of issuance of a surface water management permit:
      (1)   Submit to the City of Jordan for its approval, a conservation
easement for protection of approved buffers, or include the buffer in a
dedicated outlot as part of platting and subdivision approval. The easement
shall describe the boundaries of the wetland or public waters wetland and
buffer, identify the monuments and monument locations, and prohibit any of the
alterations set forth in division (H), below, and the removal of the buffer
monuments within the buffer, wetland, or public waters wetland. Outlot
descriptions shall provide for an equivalent level of protection of the buffer
and prohibit any alterations set forth in division (H), below;
      (2)   File the approved easement for record and submit evidence thereof
to the City of Jordan, or complete preliminary and final plats including
dedicated outlot(s); and
      (3)   Install the monumentation required by division (I), below.
   (H)   Activities.
      (1)   Alterations including building, storage, paving, mowing, plowing,
introduction of noxious vegetation, cutting, dredging, filling, mining,
dumping, grazing livestock, agricultural production, yard waste disposal, or
fertilizer application, are prohibited within any buffer. Noxious vegetation,
such as European buckthorn, purple loosestrife, and reed canary grass, may be
removed. Alterations would not include plantings that enhance the natural
vegetation or selective clearing or pruning of trees or vegetation that are
dead, diseased or pose similar hazards.
      (2)   The following activities shall be permitted within any buffer, and
shall not constitute prohibited alterations under division (H)(1), above:
         (a)   Use and maintenance of an unimproved access strip through the
buffer, not more than 20 feet in width, for recreational access to the
watercourse or wetland and the exercise of riparian rights;
         (b)   Placement, maintenance, repair or replacement of public roads,
and utility and drainage systems that exist prior to creation of the buffer or
are required to comply with any subdivision approval or building permit so long
as any possible adverse impacts of public road, utility and drainage systems on
the function of the buffer have been avoided or minimized to the extent
practical;
         (c)   Construction, maintenance, repair, reconstruction or replacement
of existing and future public roads within a buffer, so long as any adverse
impacts of the road on the function of the buffer have been avoided or
minimized to the extent practical;
         (d)   ISTS may be constructed within a buffer but outside the 25 foot
structure setback as long as the vegetation growing on the system is maintained
in accordance with division (F) of this rule, and the system otherwise meets
county and state rules for ISTS systems;
         (e)   Clearing, grading, and seeding is allowed if part of an approved
wetland replacement plan.
   (I)   Monumentation. Buffers shall be monumented to clearly designate the
boundaries within new residential developments. A monument shall be required at
each parcel line where it crosses a buffer strip and shall have a maximum
spacing of 200 feet along the edge of the buffer. Additional monuments shall be
placed as necessary to accurately define the edge of the buffer. A monument
shall consist of a post and a buffer sign. The signs shall be obtained from the
City of Jordan and include warnings about fines for disturbing and/or
installing improvements upon land within the buffers. The signs shall meet the
requirement of Jordan Standard Detail No. 8003J.
   (J)   Other activities. Other activities which would change the character of
a wetland shall not diminish the quantity, quality, or biological diversity of
the wetland.
   (K)   Monitoring.
      (1)   The wetland mitigation areas shall be monitored in compliance with
the WCA rules. During the growing season of each year, hydrologic and
vegetative parameters shall be measured. A wetland monitoring report shall be
prepared and submitted annually to the city, by December 31 of each year,
during the 5-year monitoring period.
      (2)   A cash escrow or irrevocable letter of credit, sufficient to pay
for the cost of restoring the mitigated wetland areas shall be retained until
the city has accepted and approved the wetland monitoring results.
      (3)   The monitoring reports shall include, at a minimum, the following
required components:
         (a)   A description of the project location, size, current wetland
type (Cowardin or Circular 39 classification), and desired wetland type (goal).
         (b)   A comparison of the as-built conditions in relation to the
design specifications and a rationale for significant changes. During the
monitoring period, 1 time only, an as-built survey drawing shall be submitted
comparing the design specifications with the as-built specifications.
         (c)   A summary of water level measurements or soil pit data collected
to date and a determination as to whether the hydrology in the wetlands meets
the design elevations and wetland hydrology criteria as defined in the federal
wetland delineation manuals. If standing water is expected, the hydrology of
the mitigation areas shall be monitored by installing staff gauges immediately
upstream from each control structure and measuring water levels on a monthly
basis during the growing season. In cases where there is little or no standing
water, soil pits shall be dug, depth of standing water recorded, and the
location of each pit located on a site plan of the mitigation site. Seasonal
water level elevations measured at least 3 times during the period April
through October (MSL or referenced to a known benchmark).
         (d)   A list of the dominant vegetation in the wetland, including
common names of the vegetation exceeding 20% coverage and an estimate of
coverage. For wetland mitigation areas greater than 0.5 acres, plant species
data from at least 2 sample locations shall be collected and their locations
indicated on a site plan. Mitigation areas less than 0.5 acres only need plant
species from 1 sample location.
         (e)   Color photographs of the project area taken during the period
June through August, referenced to the fixed photo-reference points identified
in the wetland replacement plan and labeled accordingly.
         (f)   A summary of management activities and/or corrective actions
conducted in the wetlands during the previous year and activities planned for
the following year (i.e. burning, tilling, regrading, herbicide application,
reseeding, etc.)
      (4)   The city reserves the right to extend the wetland monitoring period
beyond 5 years and require any monitoring securities be extended as part of an
approved wetland replacement plan in the event that the wetland monitoring
requirements are not met. It is possible that, based upon city determination,
wetland establishment criteria shall be achieved prior to completion of the 5-
year monitoring period, at which time monitoring report requirements may be
terminated and securities retired.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.338 BRIDGE AND CULVERT CROSSINGS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of the City of Jordan to regulate crossings
of watercourses for driveways, roads, and utilities to maintain channel profile
stability and conveyance capacity.
   (B)   Regulation. No person or political subdivision shall construct,
improve, repair, or alter a driveway, road, or utility across a watercourse
with a tributary area in excess of 100 acres without first obtaining a surface
water management permit from the City of Jordan.
   (C)   Criteria. Crossings shall:
      (1)   Retain adequate hydraulic capacity.
      (2)   Retain adequate navigational capacity, if applicable.
      (3)   Not adversely affect water quality.
      (4)   Represent the "minimal impact" solution to a specific need with
respect to all reasonable alternatives.
      (5)   Allow for future erosion, scour, and sedimentation considerations.
      (6)   New road construction shall meet state and federal guidelines for
freeboard and overtopping by flood events.
      (7)   Require a surface water management permit under §§
154.335 and
154.336, if part of a land disturbing activity or subdivision.
   (D)   Exhibits. The following exhibits shall accompany the project review
application (1 set full size, and 2 sets reduced to a maximum size of 11" x
17"):
      (1)   Construction plans and specifications.
      (2)   Analysis prepared by a registered professional engineer showing the
effect of the project on hydraulic capacity and water quality.
      (3)   An approved SWPPP that complies with this section.
   (E)   Maintenance.
      (1)   The maintenance, reconstruction, and stabilization of any public
crossing shall be the responsibility of the political subdivision with
jurisdiction over the crossing.
      (2)   The maintenance, reconstruction, and stabilization of any private
crossing shall be the responsibility of the owner of the crossing.
      (3)   As a condition to the approval of a surface water management
permit, the City of Jordan may require the applicant and owner to enter into a
compliance agreement with the city.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.339 DRAINAGE ALTERATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of the City of Jordan to ensure that surface
water may be drained only in a manner that does not unreasonably burden
upstream or downstream land.
   (B)   Regulation. No person or political subdivision shall artificially
drain surface water, nor obstruct or redirect the natural flow of runoff, so as
to affect a drainage system established under M.S. Chapter 103E Drainage, or
harm the public health, safety, and general welfare of the City of Jordan,
without first obtaining a surface water management permit from the city.
   (C)   Criteria. The applicant for a drainage alteration shall:
      (1)   Describe the overall environmental impact of the proposed drainage
alteration and demonstrate that:
         (a)   There is a reasonable necessity for such drainage alteration;
         (b)   Reasonable care has been taken to avoid unnecessary injury to
upstream and downstream land;
         (c)   The utility or benefit accruing to the land on which the
drainage shall be altered reasonably outweighs the gravity of the harm
resulting to the land receiving the burden;
         (d)   That downstream impacts have been controlled or mitigated
according to §
154.335(C)(4).
         (e)   The drainage alteration is being accomplished by reasonably
improving and aiding the normal and natural system of drainage according to its
reasonable carrying capacity, or in the absence of a practicable natural drain,
a reasonable and feasible artificial drainage system is being adopted.
      (2)   Provide a hydraulic design which complies with §
154.337, and if the alteration involves a landlocked basin, the alteration
shall comply with §
154.334 for outlets from landlocked basins.
      (3)   Provide a stable channel and outfall.
      (4)   Obtain a surface water management permit under §§
154.334 and
154.335 if the drainage alteration is part of a land disturbing activity, a
development or redevelopment of land.
   (D)   Exhibits. The City of Jordan shall require the submittal of exhibits
with the application necessary for review and determination of compliance with
this rule.
   (E)   Exceptions.
      (1)   No surface water management permit shall be required under this
section for the alteration of drainage in connection with the use of land for
agricultural activities.
      (2)   The City of Jordan may waive the requirement of division (C)(1) of
this section if the applicant submits easements or other documentation in a
form acceptable to the city evidencing the consent of the owner of any burdened
land to the proposed alteration. Such easements or other documentation shall be
recorded in the Office of the Scott County Recorder and evidence thereof
submitted to the city.
         (a)   All drainage alterations not required by §
154.330 to obtain a surface water management permit shall nevertheless be
conducted in full compliance with §
154.334.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.340 GROUNDWATER.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of the city to:
      (1)   Support identification and reduction of groundwater contamination
from both point and nonpoint sources.
      (2)   Support enforcement of County ISTS and community septic system
ordinances.
      (3)   Continue to support programs that promote efficient administration
of groundwater pollution programs.
      (4)   To target high priority water bodies for water quality projects:
including working with those waters listed as "impaired" by the MPCA for
listing under Section 303(d) of the Clean Water Act. These include waters
listed for excess nutrients and fecal coliform bacteria where failing ISTS
systems and contaminated groundwater contribute to the impairment.
   (B)   Regulation. The City of Jordan shall require all known non-compliant
ISTS in the 10-year capture area of wellhead protection areas (WHPA) to be
upgraded to conform to Minnesota Administrative Rule 7080 within 3 years of
August 9, 2006 or within 3 years of establishment of a WHPA.
   (C)   Exceptions. An exception may be granted by the City of Jordan where
non-compliant systems shall be provided with municipal sewer service within 5
years. However, in no case should noncompliant systems remain in violation for
more than 5 years from August 9, 2006 or 5 years of establishment of a WHPA.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.341 SECURITY.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the intent of the City of Jordan to protect and
conserve water resources by requiring a financial security to assure compliance
with §
154.330.
   (B)   Requirement. The City of Jordan shall require a deposit of cash, an
irrevocable letter of credit, or other security with the city as a condition to
the issuance of a surface water management permit under §
154.330.
   (C)   Amount. A rate schedule of security amounts shall be set annually by
the City of Jordan as the amount the city deems necessary to cover the
following potential liabilities to the resources of the city:
      (1)   The cost of field inspection, monitoring and related fees;
      (2)   The cost of maintaining and implementing erosion and sediment
control required by the surface water management permit;
      (3)   The cost of completing buffer strip landscaping in accordance with
§
154.337; and
      (4)   The cost of remedying damage resulting from noncompliance with the
surface water management permit or §
154.330, or for which the permittee is otherwise responsible.
   (D)   Forms and conditions.
      (1)   The security shall be in the form of cash escrow or an irrevocable
letter of credit from a bank or surety licensed to do business in the State of
Minnesota.
      (2)   The security shall be in favor of the City of Jordan and
conditioned upon the permittee's performance of the authorized activity in
compliance with the surface water management permit and applicable laws,
including §
154.330, and the payment when due of any fees or other charges authorized or
required by the surface water management permit, or §
154.330.
      (3)   Upon written notice, the City of Jordan shall be authorized to make
a claim or draw against the security after any default by the permittee under
the surface water management permit or §
154.330, or if the permittee fails to replace any security at least 30 days
before its expiration.
   (E)   Release. Any security may be released by the City of Jordan.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
SATELLITE DISHES AND OTHER DISHES
§ 154.351 CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   Any satellite dish hereafter erected shall conform to the provisions of this
subchapter and any other ordinance or regulation of the city.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.352 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All dish antennas over 1 meter (39.4 inches) in diameter shall be
prohibited from roof tops unless it is determined by the Zoning Administrator
that placement within a side or rear yards is impractical.
   (B)   Satellite dishes and other dishes shall not be located in front yards.
Dishes shall not be permitted on either side adjacent to a public right-of-way
on corner lots. This shall not apply to dishes which are directly attached to
the front or side of a structure.
   (C)   No satellite dish or other dish shall be located within 10 feet of any
rear lot or side lot line in any residential district.
   (D)   A limit of 2 such structures shall exist at any 1 time on any R-1, R-
2 residential district lot or parcel except that satellite dishes exceeding 1
meter in width shall be limited to 1 per R-1, R-2 residential district lot or
parcel.
   (E)   The applicant shall be responsible for any required license by any
federal, state or local agency.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/c650032275cfd2dff1fbbff06c5d7cb71cc35d04/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2023.jpg]
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
RESIDENTIAL POOLS AND SPAS
§ 154.361 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Residential swimming pools shall be defined as any constructed pool,
permanent or portable, which is intended for non-commercial use as a swimming
pool by the owner's family and their guests and which is over 24 inches in
depth and has a surface area exceeding 200 square feet.
   (B)   Spa shall be defined as a unit which is not drained, cleaned or
refilled for each individual. It may be included but not limited to hydrojet
circulation, hot water, cold water mineral baths, air induction bubbles or any
combination thereof. Industry terminology for a spa includes, but is not
limited to, therapeutic pool, hydrotherapy pool, whirlpool, hot spa, etc.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.362 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Utility lines. Pools and spas shall not be located beneath utility
lines or over underground utility lines of any type.
   (B)   Setback. No person shall build, situate, or install a pool or spa
within 10 feet of any side or rear lot line, or within any required front yard.
   (C)   Portable fences. While being constructed, the pool or spa must be
fenced with a portable fence, of not less than 4 feet in height.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.363 FENCING.
   (A)   Minimum height. All outdoor pools hereafter constructed shall be
completely enclosed by a fence or wall of the non-climbing type so as to be
impenetrable by toddlers, shall not include external handholds, and shall be a
minimum of 4 feet in height.
   (B)   Self-closing. All outdoor fence openings or outdoor points of entry
into the pool area shall be equipped with self-closing and self-latching
devices. The openings between the bottom of the fence and the ground or other
surface shall not be more than 3 inches.
   (C)   Latchable cover. All outdoor spas shall have either a fence as
described in divisions (A) and (B) above or a latchable cover. The cover shall
be constructed of a material impenetrable by toddlers.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.364 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct, alter or renovate a pool or spa without a
building permit.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
HOME OCCUPATIONS
§ 154.371 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prevent competition with business
districts and to provide a means through the establishment of specific
standards and procedures by which home occupations can be conducted in
residential neighborhoods without jeopardizing the health, safety and general
welfare of the surrounding neighborhood. In addition, this subchapter is
intended to provide a mechanism enabling the distinction between permitted home
occupations and special or customarily "more sensitive" home occupations, so
that permitted home occupations may be allowed through an administrative
process rather than a legislative hearing process.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.372 REGULATIONS.
   All occupations conducted in the home shall comply with the provisions of
this subchapter, the provisions of the district in which it is located, and
other sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.373 PERMITTED HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   Examples. Permitted home occupations include, but are not limited to:
photo or art studio, dressmaking, barber shops, beauty shops, tourist homes,
secretarial services, day care for up to 14 children, family day care, foster
care, professional offices such as legal, accounting, insurance or computer
technician and teaching with musical, dancing and other instructions which
consist of no more than 2 pupils at a time, the sale of products whose name
brand are not marketed and sold in a wholesale or retail outlet, minor repair
services, and similar activities if certain design and performance standards
are met. Licensed tattoo establishments are not allowed as a home occupation.
   (B)   Approval. The Zoning Administrator may issue a home occupation permit
based upon proof of compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. The
approval shall remain in full force and effect until such time as there has
been a change in conditions or until such time as the provisions of this
subchapter have been changed. A fee shall accompany application for the home
occupation permit if so designated by City Council ordinance.
   (C)   Denial. If the Zoning Administrator denies the permit, the applicant
may appeal the decision to the City Council which shall make the final
decision.
   (D)   Regulations. The following regulations shall apply:
      (1)   No person other than those who customarily reside on the premises
shall be employed on the premises.
      (2)   Activities associated with the occupation shall be conducted
entirely within the principal building whenever possible and should not be
conducted in an accessory building.
      (3)   Activities associated with the occupation shall not create a
parking demand in excess of what which can be accommodated in an existing
driveway. Such occupation does not generate more than 2 vehicles at 1 time.
      (4)   The following activities, and those similar, are prohibited: repair
service or manufacturing which requires equipment other than found in a home;
teaching which customarily consists of more than 2 pupils at a time; over-the-
counter sale of merchandise produced off the premises, except for those brand
name products that are not marketed and sold in a wholesale or retail outlet.
      (5)   Any home occupation which does not meet the specific requirements
for a permitted home occupation as defined in this section shall require a
"special home occupation license" which shall be applied for, reviewed and
approved in accordance with the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 154.374 SPECIAL HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   Examples. Special home occupations include, but are not limited to:
barber and beauty services, day care for over 14 children, carpentry or
woodworking, group nursery, bed and breakfasts as noted in division (B)(3)(d)
of this section, dog grooming, photography studio, saw sharpening, small
appliances and small engine repair and other occupations similar in nature.
Licensed tattoo establishments shall not be permitted as a home occupation.
   (B)   License. A special home occupation license, shall require a public
hearing before the Planning Commission, following published notice in the
official newspaper of the city and mailed notice to property owners within 350
feet of the property in which the home occupation is proposed, not less than 10
days nor more than 30 days prior to the hearing. The Planning Commission shall
forward a recommendation to the City Council which shall make a decision
regarding the issuance of a license based on the provisions listed in this
section, within 60 days of the completed application for the request. A fee
shall accompany application for the special home occupation license if so
designated by City Council ordinance.
      (1)   Declaration of conditions. The Planning Commission and the Council
may impose such conditions of the granting of a "special home occupation
license" as may be necessary to carry out the purpose and provisions of this
section.
      (2)   Duration. A "special home occupation license" may be issued for a
period of 1 year after which the license may be reissued for periods of up to 5
years each.
      (3)   Requirements:
         (a)   No person other than those who customarily reside on the
premises and 1 full-time equivalent additional employee shall be employed on
the premises.
         (b)   Parking demand may be accommodated through utilization of on-
street parking.
         (c)   An accessory building may be used for the storage of items
incidental to the licensed home occupation.
         (d)   Bed and breakfasts may be permitted provided that:
            1.   It shall be part of an owner-occupied residential structure.
            2.   Four or fewer rooms are for rent for a period not to exceed 14
consecutive days during any 90-day period.
            3.   The establishment conforms with all applicable federal and
state regulations, and Building Code requirements.
            4.   The primary entrances to all guestrooms are located inside the
dwelling.
            5.   A guest register is maintained and available for city
inspection.
            6.   No food preparation or cooking is conducted within guestrooms.
            7.   Food service is limited to breakfast.
            8.   No other commercial use may occur on the property. Gatherings
such as luncheons, banquets, parties, weddings, meetings, and fund-raising
events are prohibited.
            9.   Parking shall be accommodated on the property and parking
requirements for guests are in addition to those required for the principal
residential use. Parking shall conform to the requirements of §§
154.221 through
154.230 Purpose and Proof of Parking of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-04, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 154.375 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The following activities are prohibited:
      (1)   Manufacturing business.
      (2)   Mechanical or electric equipment not customarily found in a home.
      (3)   Interior or exterior alterations and construction features which
are not customarily found in a dwelling.
      (4)   Production of light glare, noise, odor or vibration that will in
any way have an objectionable effect upon adjacent or nearby property.
      (5)   Equipment which will create electrical interference to surrounding
properties.
      (6)   Exterior outdoor storage of equipment or materials, with the
exception of personal automobiles used in the home occupation, which may be
parked on the site.
      (7)   Display or evidence visible from the property exterior that
indicates the premises are used for any purpose other than that of a dwelling.
      (8)   Signage, except as permitted in accordance with §§
154.241 through
154.260 Signs.
   (B)   Any home occupation shall be clearly incidental and secondary to the
residential use of the premises, should not change the residential character
thereof, and shall result in no incompatibility or disturbance to the
surrounding residential uses.
   (C)   The floor area devoted to the home occupation, other than day care,
shall not exceed 25% of the total ground area occupied by buildings on the lot.
   (D)   Whenever within 1 year after granting approval, the use as permitted
by the approval has not been initiated, then such approval shall become null
and void unless a petition for extension of time in which to complete the work
has been granted by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2020-01, passed 2-3-2020; Am. Ord.
2020-04, passed 11-16-2020)
§ 154.376 EXISTING NON-CONFORMING HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Existing home occupations lawfully existing on the effective date of this
chapter may continue as non-conforming uses. They shall however, be required to
obtain approval for their continued operation. Any existing home occupation
that is discontinued for a period of more than 1 year shall be brought into
conformity with the provisions of this chapter prior to re-institution.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.377 INSPECTION.
   The city hereby reserves the right upon issuing any home occupation approval
to inspect the premises in which the occupation is being conducted to ensure
compliance and the provisions of this subchapter or any conditions additionally
imposed.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.378 VIOLATIONS.
   Any home occupation found to be in violation of this subchapter shall be
served with a notice from the Zoning Administrator. If the violation is not
corrected within 10 days, the approval for the home occupation shall be
revoked. Proof of compliance shall be provided if complaints are received by
the City Council.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
TOWERS
§ 154.381 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   In order to accommodate the communication needs of the residents, business
and industry while protecting the health, safety and general welfare of the
city, the following regulations are imposed in order to:
   (A)   Facilitate the use of wireless communication services, television and
radio antennas, for residents, businesses and industries of the city.
   (B)   Minimize adverse effects of towers through careful design and siting
standards;
   (C)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower or antenna
failure through structural standards and setback requirements; and
   (D)   Maximize the use of existing and approved towers and buildings to
accommodate new wireless telecommunication antennas in order to reduce the
number of towers needed to serve the community.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.382 AMATEUR RADIO TOWERS.
   Amateur radio support structures (towers) shall not exceed a height above
ground level of 75 feet, unless a conditional use permit has been granted. They
shall be mounted on the roof of a dwelling or other building or located in the
rear yard. They shall be installed in accordance with the instructions
furnished by the manufacturer of that tower model. Because of the experimental
nature of the amateur radio service, antennas mounted on a tower may be
modified and changed at any time so long as the published allowable load on the
tower is not exceeded and the structure of the tower remains in accordance with
the manufacturer's specifications. All towers shall be of a monopole design.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.383 TOWER LOCATIONS.
   Antennas on a public structure or existing structures are allowed in all
districts by resolution approved by the City Council. Towers not exceeding 75
feet in height may be erected after the issuance of a building permit. Towers
exceeding 75 feet in height may be allowed only by a conditional use permit in
the following zoning districts:
      C-3, Highway Commercial
      I-1, Light Industrial
      I-2 General Industrial
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.384 TOWER SETBACKS.
   (A)   The setback of the tower shall be at a ratio of 1 foot of setback for
every 2 feet of height of tower (i.e. a 100 foot tower would require a 50 foot
setback from all property lines and street right-of-way).
   (B)   In the event that any portion of the property directly abuts a
district zoned residential, the setback to this district shall be at a ratio of
1 foot for every 1 foot of height of structure (i.e. a 100 foot tower would
require a 100 foot setback from any property line which is residentially
zoned).
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.385 TOWER LIGHTING.
   Towers shall be required to meet Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) and
Federal Communications Commission (FCC) requirements and may be required to be
artificially lighted. If the tower does require artificial lighting, a letter
stating this need and a description of the lighting shall be provided to the
City Council prior to approval. The lighting, unless required by the FAA to be
otherwise, must be diffused.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.386 CO-LOCATION REQUIRED.
   All commercial towers erected, constructed or located within the city shall
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   A proposal for a new commercial tower shall not be approved unless the
applicant has provided proof that the proposed tower cannot be accommodated on
an existing or approved tower or building within a 2 mile search radius of the
proposed tower, due to 1 or more the following reasons:
      (1)   The antenna would exceed the structural capacity of the existing or
approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified and licensed
professional engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be reinforced,
modified or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent equipment at a
reasonable cost.
      (2)   The antenna would cause interference materially impacting the
usability of other existing or planned antenna at the tower or building as
documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer and the
interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost.
      (3)   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search radius
cannot accommodate the planned antenna at a height necessary to function
reasonably as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer.
      (4)   Other unforeseen reasons that make it unfeasible to locate the
planned antenna equipment upon an existing or approved tower or building.
   (B)   Co-location. Any proposed commercial tower shall be designed
structurally, electronically and in all respects to accommodate both the
applicant's antennas and comparable antennas for at least 2 additional users if
the tower is over 100 feet in height or for at least 1 additional user if the
tower is over 75 feet in height. Towers must be designed to allow for future
rearrangement of antennas upon the tower and to accept antennas mounted at
varying heights.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.387 STRUCTURAL AND LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   Proposed or modified towers and antennas shall meet the following design
requirements:
   (A)   Towers and antennas shall be designed to blend into the surrounding
environment through the use of color and camouflaging architectural treatment,
except in instances where the color is dictated by federal or state authorities
such as the Federal Aviation Administration.
   (B)   Commercial towers shall be of a monopole design, unless the City
Council determines that an alternative design would better blend into the
surrounding environment.
   (C)   Landscaping plans for the base of the tower must be submitted with the
application of the conditional use permit or building permit, should a
conditional use permit not be needed. These plans must be compatible with the
surrounding character of the area and must be approved either by the City
Council prior to the issuance of the conditional use permit or Zoning
Administrator prior to issuance of a building permit.
   (D)   Screening plans for accessory equipment or buildings shall be provided
and include a 100% opaque barrier to be constructed of either brick masonry
walls or solid wood fencing of a height of no more than 6 feet.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.388 ABANDONED OR UNUSED TOWERS OR ANTENNAS.
   Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers shall be removed as
follows:
   (A)   All abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities shall be
removed within 6 months of cessation of operations at the site unless a time
extension is approved by the City Council. In the event a tower is not removed
within 6 months of cessation of operations at a site, the tower and associated
facilities may be removed by the city and the costs of removal assessed against
the property.
   (B)   Unused portions of towers above a manufactured connection shall be
removed within 6 months of the time of antenna location. The replacement of
portions of a tower previously removed requires the issuance of a new
conditional use permit.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.389 PUBLIC SAFETY TELECOMMUNICATION INTERFERENCE.
   Commercial wireless telecommunications services shall not interfere with
public safety telecommunications. Before the introduction of new service or
changes in existing services, telecommunication providers shall notify the city
at least 10 days in advance of any changes and allow the city to monitor
interference levels during the testing process.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEMS
§ 154.391 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to:
   (A)   Accommodate alternative energy sources by removing regulatory barriers
and creating a clear regulatory path for approving alternative energy systems.
   (B)   Create a livable community where development incorporates sustainable
design elements such as resource and energy conservation and use of renewable
energy.
   (C)   Protect and enhance air quality and decrease use of fossil fuels.
   (D)   Accommodate alternative energy development in locations where the
technology is viable and environmental, economic and social impacts can be
mitigated.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.392 GROUND SOURCE HEAT PUMP SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Zoning district allowance. Ground source heat pump systems in
accordance with the standards in this chapter are allowed as a permitted
accessory use in all zoning districts.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   System requirements.
         (a)   Only closed loop ground source heat pump systems utilizing heat
transfer fluids as defined in this section are permitted. Open loop ground
source heat pump systems are not permitted.
         (b)   Ground source heat pump systems in public waters may be
permitted as a conditional use in accordance with this section and subject to
the following:
            1.   Approval from the Minnesota Department of Natural Resources.
            2.   Written consent of all property owners and/or approval by an
association in accordance with its adopted bylaws.
            3.   Demonstrated compliance with applicable city permit
requirements.
         (c)   Ground source heat pump systems in water bodies owned or managed
by the City of Jordan are not permitted.
      (2)   Setbacks.
         (a)   All components of ground source heat pump systems including
pumps, borings and loops shall be set back at least 5 feet from interior side
lot lines and at least 10 feet from rear lot lines.
         (b)   Above ground equipment associated with ground source heat pumps
shall not be installed in the front yard of any lot or the side yard of a
corner lot adjacent to a public right-of-way and shall meet all required
setbacks for the applicable zoning district.
      (3)   Easements. Ground source heat pump systems shall not encroach on
public drainage, utility roadway, or trail easements.
      (4)   Noise. Ground source heat pump systems shall comply with Minnesota
pollution control agency standards outlined in Minnesota Rules Ch. 7030.
      (5)   Screening. Ground source heat pumps are considered mechanical
equipment and shall be screened from view to the extent possible without
impacting their function.
      (6)   Safety. Ground source heat pumps shall be certified by Underwriters
Laboratories, Inc., and meet the requirements of the State Building Code.
   (C)   Abandonment. If a ground source heat pump system remains nonfunctional
or inoperative for a continuous period of 1 year, the system shall be deemed to
be abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall remove the
abandoned system at their expense after a demolition permit has been obtained
in accordance with the following:
      (1)   The heat pump and any external mechanical equipment shall be
removed.
      (2)   Pipes or coils below the land surface shall be filled with grout to
displace the heat transfer fluid. The heat transfer fluid shall be captured and
disposed of in accordance with applicable regulations. The top of the pipe,
coil or boring shall be uncovered and grouted.
      (3)   Lake ground source heat pump systems shall be completely removed
from the bottom of the body of water.
   (D)   Permits. A building permit shall be obtained for any ground source
heat pump system prior to installation. Borings for vertical systems are
subject to approval by the Minnesota Department of Public Health.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.393 WIND ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Zoning district allowance. Small wind turbine systems in accordance
with the standards in this chapter are allowed as a permitted accessory use in
all zoning districts.
   (B)   General standards. The following standards shall be applicable to
small wind turbine systems in all zoning districts:
      (1)   Number. No more than 1 wind energy system is permitted per parcel.
      (2)   Setbacks. The base of the wind turbine tower shall be set back from
all property lines a distance equal to the highest possible extension of the
system apparatus.
      (3)   Roof mounting. Roof mounted wind turbines shall be permitted only
when a determination is made by the City Building Official that the underlying
roof structure will support such system and all applicable building standards
are satisfied.
      (4)   Rotor clearance. No part of a rotor blade shall be located within
30 feet of the ground and within 20 feet of the nearest tree, structure or
aboveground utility facility.
      (5)   Noise. Wind energy systems shall comply with Minnesota pollution
control agency noise standards outlined in Minnesota Rules Ch. 7030 at all
property lines.
      (6)   Screening. Wind energy systems shall be screened from view to the
extent possible without impacting their function.
      (7)   Aesthetics. All portions of the wind energy system shall be a
nonreflective, nonobtrusive color, subject to the approval of the zoning
administrator. The appearance of the turbine, tower and any other related
components shall be maintained throughout the life of the wind energy system
pursuant to industry standards. Systems shall not be used for displaying any
advertising. Systems shall not be illuminated.
      (8)   Feeder lines. The electrical collection system shall be placed
underground within the interior of each parcel. The collection system may be
placed overhead near substations or points of interconnection to the electric
grid.
      (9)   Safety.
         (a)   Wind energy systems shall meet minimum standards such as
International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) 61400-2 or the American Wind
Energy Association's (AWEA) small wind turbine performance and safety standard
or other standards as determined by the City Building Official.
         (b)   Wind energy systems shall be certified by Underwriters
Laboratories, Inc., and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, the Small
Wind Certification Council or other body as determined by the city. The city
reserves the right to deny a building permit for proposed wind energy systems
deemed to have inadequate certification or testing for operation in a severe
winter climate.
         (c)   Wind energy systems shall be maintained under an agreement or
contract by the manufacturer or other qualified entity.
         (d)   All grid connected systems shall have an agreement with the
local utility prior to the issuance of a building permit. A visible external
disconnect shall be provided if required by the utility.
      (10)   Abandonment. If a wind energy system remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for a continuous period of 1 year, the system shall be deemed to be
abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall remove the
abandoned system at their expense after a demolition permit has been obtained.
Removal includes the entire structure including foundations to below natural
grade and transmission equipment.
      (11)   Permits. A building permit, and conditional use permit if
required, shall be obtained for any wind energy system prior to installation.
   (C)   Residential district standards.
      (1)   Mounting. All wind turbine systems shall be roof mounted. Ground
mounted systems are not permitted.
      (2)   Height. Wind energy systems shall not extend more than 6 feet above
the highest point of the roof.
   (D)   Commercial, industrial, and institutional district standards.
      (1)   Mounting. Subject to the requirements of this chapter, wind energy
systems may either be roof mounted or ground mounted.
      (2)   Height.
         (a)   Except as may otherwise be allowed by conditional use permit,
wind turbine systems shall conform to the maximum height requirements of the
applicable commercial, industrial or institutional zoning district.
         (b)   Wind turbine system heights in excess of the maximum height
requirement of the applicable zoning district may be permitted by conditional
use permit provided that:
            1.   The system height, as measured from the base of the tower for
ground mounted systems, or base of the building for roof mounted systems, to
the highest possible extension of the system apparatus shall not exceed 75
feet.
            2.   The additional system height is required to allow for the
improved operation of the wind energy system.
            3.   The additional wind energy system height results in a net
energy gain.
            4.   The wind energy system does not adversely affect solar access
to adjacent properties.
            5.   The wind energy system complies with all other engineering,
building, safety, and fire regulations.
            6.   The wind energy system is found to not have any adverse
impacts on the area, including the health, safety, and general welfare of
occupants of neighboring properties and users of public rights-of-way.
            7.   The criteria and applicable standards of this section are
considered and determined to be satisfied.
      (3)   Ground mounted systems.
         (a)   Ground mounted wind energy systems shall not be installed in the
front yard of any lot or in the side yard of a corner lot adjacent to a public
right-of-way.
         (b)   Only monopole towers are permitted.
         (c)   System height shall be measured from the base of the tower to
the highest possible extension of the system apparatus.
         (d)   Ground located wind energy systems shall not encroach on public
drainage, utility roadway or trail easements.
      (4)   Blade length. A maximum blade length of 15 feet is permitted.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013)
§ 154.394 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Zoning district allowance. Solar energy systems in accordance with the
standards in this chapter are allowed as a permitted accessory use in all
zoning districts.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Exemption. Passive or building integrated solar energy systems are
exempt from the requirements of this chapter and shall be regulated as any
other building element.
      (2)   Height. 
         (a)   Residential roof mounted solar energy systems are permitted to
exceed the maximum height requirements in the applicable zoning district up to
18 inches above the rooftop to which it is attached. Residential rooftop
mounted solar energy systems must be installed parallel to the rooftop to which
it is attached. Residential ground mounted solar energy systems shall not
exceed 10 feet in height.
         (b)   Commercial roof mounted solar energy system are permitted to
project a maximum of 4 feet from the roof to which is it attached to. The pitch
shall not exceed 40% at maximum tilt. Commercial ground mounted solar energy
systems shall not exceed 15 feet in height at maximum tilt.
         (c)   Ground mounted solar energy systems must be engineered to
include 3 feet of clearance from grade to bottom of the solar energy system.
      (3)   Location. In residential zoning districts, ground mounted solar
energy systems shall be limited to the rear or side yard. In commercial,
industrial and institutional districts, ground mounted solar energy systems may
be permitted in front yards, side yards adjacent to public rights-of- way and
rear yards.
      (4)   Setbacks. Ground mounted solar energy systems shall comply with all
accessory structure setbacks in the applicable zoning district. Roof mounted
systems shall comply with all building setbacks in the applicable zoning
district and shall not extend beyond the exterior perimeter of the building on
which the system is mounted.
      (5)   Roof mounting. Roof mounted solar collectors may be flush mounted
or bracket mounted. Bracket mounted collectors shall be permitted only when a
determination is made by the City Building
Official that the underlying roof structure will support apparatus, wind, and
snow loads and all applicable building standards are satisfied.
      (6)   Easements. Solar energy systems shall not encroach on public
drainage, utility roadway or trail easements.
      (7)   Screening. Solar energy systems shall be screened from view and the
public right of way to the extent possible without impacting their function.
Solar energy systems are exempt from §
154.106(P), screening requirements for rooftop mechanical equipment.
      (8)   Maximum area. 
         (a)   Residential ground mounted solar energy systems shall be limited
to 1% of the lot area. Residential ground mounted solar energy systems may
exceed 1% of the lot area with an approved variance (§
154.048 of the Zoning Ordinance).
         (b)   Commercial ground mounted solar energy systems shall be limited
in size to the maximum area requirement allowed for accessory structures or no
more than 25% of the yard in which the solar energy system is placed, whichever
is less.
         (c)   Ground mounted solar energy systems are exempt from maximum
impervious surface limitations in each zoning district.
      (9)   Aesthetics. All solar energy systems shall minimize glare toward
vehicular traffic and adjacent properties.
      (10)   Feeder lines. The electrical collection system shall be placed
underground within the interior of each parcel. The collection system may be
placed overhead near substations or points of interconnection to the electric
grid.
   (C)   Safety.
      (1)   Standards. Solar energy systems shall meet the minimum standards
outlined by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), the American
Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE),
ASTM International, British Standards Institution (BSI), International
Organization for Standardization (ISO), Underwriter's Laboratory (UL), the
Solar Rating and Certification Corporation (SRCC) or other standards as
determined by the City Building Official.
      (2)   Certification. Solar energy systems shall be certified by
Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., and the National Renewable Energy Laboratory,
the Solar Rating and Certification Corporation or other body as determined by
the community development director. The city reserves the right to deny a
building permit for proposed solar energy systems deemed to have inadequate
certification.
      (3)   Utility connection. All grid connected systems shall have an
agreement with the local utility prior to the issuance of a building permit. A
visible external disconnect shall be provided if required by the utility.
   (D)   Abandonment. If a solar energy system remains nonfunctional or
inoperative for a continuous period of 1 year, the system shall be deemed to be
abandoned and shall constitute a public nuisance. The owner shall remove the
abandoned system at their expense after a demolition permit has been obtained.
Removal includes the entire structure including transmission equipment.
   (E)   Permit.  A building permit shall be obtained for any solar energy
system prior to installation. A building permit submittal must include the
following: to-scale site plan, manufacturers and installation specifications, a
complete structural review worksheet for residential roof mounted solar arrays
and any additional information requested by city staff and/or the building
official.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2017-04, passed 12-18-2017)
FLOODPLAIN DISTRICTS
General Regulations
§ 154.500 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   This floodplain subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authorization and
policies contained in M.S. Chapter 103F; Minnesota Rules, Parts 6120.5000 -
6120.6200; the rules and regulations of the National Flood Insurance Program
codified as 44 Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 59 -78; and the planning and
zoning enabling legislation in M.S. Chapter 462.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.501 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter regulates development in the flood hazard areas of the
City of Jordan. The flood hazard areas of the city are subject to periodic
inundation which results in potential loss of life, loss of property, health
and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental services,
extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and
impairment of the tax base. It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the
public health, safety, and general welfare by minimizing these losses and
disruptions.
   (B)   This subchapter is adopted to maintain the community's eligibility in
the National Flood Insurance Program.
   (C)   This subchapter is also intended to preserve the natural
characteristics and functions of watercourses and floodplains in order to
moderate flood and stormwater impacts, improve water quality, reduce soil
erosion, protect aquatic and riparian habitat, provide recreational
opportunities, provide aesthetic benefits and enhance community and economic
development.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.502 LANDS TO WHICH SUBCHAPTER APPLIES.
   This subchapter applies to all lands within the jurisdiction of the City of
Jordan within the boundaries of the Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts, and
further detailed in §§
154.503 and
154.508 of this subchapter.
   (A)   The Floodway and Flood Fringe Districts are overlay districts
superimposed on all existing zoning districts. The standards imposed in the
overlay districts are in addition to any other requirements in this chapter. In
case of a conflict, the more restrictive standards will apply.
   (B)   Where a conflict exists between the floodplain limits illustrated on
the official floodplain maps and actual field conditions, the base flood
elevations shall be the governing factor in locating the outer boundaries of
the 1% annual chance floodplain.
   (C)   Persons contesting the location of the district boundaries will be
given a reasonable opportunity to present their case to the Planning Commission
and to submit technical evidence.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.503 INCORPORATION OF MAPS BY REFERENCE.
   The following maps together with all attached material are hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of the Official Zoning Map and this
subchapter. The attached material includes the Flood Insurance Study for Scott
County, Minnesota, and Incorporated Areas, dated February 12, 2021 and the
Flood Insurance Rate map panels enumerated below, dated February 12, 2021, all
prepared by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. These materials are on
file in City Hall.
   "Flood Insurance Study: Scott County, Minnesota and Incorporated Areas"
   Map Number 27139CIND0A
   Map Number 27139C0117E
   Map Number 27139C0119E
   Map Number 27139C0136E
   Map Number 27139C0138E
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.504 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, or impair any
existing easements, covenants, or other private agreements. However, where this
chapter imposes greater restrictions, the provisions of this chapter prevail.
All other ordinances inconsistent with this chapter are hereby repealed to the
extent of the inconsistency only.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.505 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   This subchapter does not imply that areas outside the floodplain districts
or land uses permitted within such districts will be free from flooding or
flood damages. This subchapter does not create liability on the part of the
City of Jordan or its officers or employees for any flood damages that result
from reliance on this subchapter or any administrative decision lawfully made
hereunder.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.506 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, provision, or portion of this subchapter is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid by a court of law, the remainder of this chapter
shall not be affected and shall remain in full force.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.507 ANNEXATIONS.
   The Flood Insurance Rate Map panels adopted by reference into §
154.503 above may include floodplain areas that lie outside of the corporate
boundaries of the City of Jordan at the time of adoption of this chapter. If
any of these floodplain land areas are annexed into the City of Jordan after
the date of adoption of this chapter, the newly annexed floodplain lands will
be subject to the provisions of this chapter immediately upon the date of
annexation.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
Zoning Districts
§ 154.508 ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Floodway District. Those areas within Zones AE delineated within
floodway areas as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate Maps adopted in §
154.503.
   (B)   Flood Fringe District. Those areas within Zones AE on the Flood
Insurance Rate Maps adopted in §
154.503, but located outside of the floodway.
   (C)   General Floodplain District. Those areas within Zone A and AE areas
that do not have a floodway delineated as shown on the Flood Insurance Rate
Maps adopted in §
154.503.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.509 APPLICABILITY.
   Where Floodway and Flood Fringe districts are delineated on the floodplain
maps, the standards in §§
154.512 or
154.513 will apply, depending on the location of a property. Locations where
Floodway and Flood Fringe districts are not delineated on the floodplain maps
are considered to fall within the General Floodplain district. Section
154.514 of this subchapter will be amended with General Floodplain district
provisions in the event the City of Jordan acquires such land.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.510 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   A permit must be obtained from the Zoning Administrator to verify if a
development meets all applicable standards outlined in this subchapter prior to
conducting the following activities:
   (A)   The erection, addition, modification, rehabilitation, or alteration of
any building, structure, or portion thereof. Normal maintenance and repair also
requires a permit if such work, separately or in conjunction with other planned
work, constitutes a substantial improvement as in §
154.020 of this chapter.
   (B)   The construction of a dam, on-site septic system, or any fence not
meeting the definition of a farm fence outlined in §
154.020 of this chapter.
   (C)   The change or extension of a nonconforming use.
   (D)   The repair of a structure that has been damaged by flood, fire,
tornado, or any other source.
   (E)   The placement of fill, excavation of materials, or the storage of
materials or equipment within the floodplain.
   (F)   Relocation or alteration of a watercourse (including stabilization
projects or the construction of new or replacement culverts and bridges),
unless a public waters work permit has been obtained from the Department of
Natural Resources.
   (G)   Any other type of "development" as defined in this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.511 MINIMUM DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   All new development must be:
      (1)   Designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
floatation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure resulting from
hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the effects of buoyancy.
      (2)   Constructed with materials and equipment resistant to flood damage.
      (3)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (4)   Constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, ductwork,
plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and other service facilities that are
designed and/or located so as to prevent water from entering or accumulating
within the components during conditions of flooding.
      (5)   Reasonably safe from flooding and consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage within the flood-prone area.
      (6)   Assured to provide adequate drainage to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   (B)   Floodplain developments must not adversely affect the hydraulic
capacity of the channel and adjoining floodplain of any tributary watercourse
or drainage system.
   (C)   Materials that, in time of flooding, are buoyant, flammable,
explosive, or could be injurious to human, animal, or plant life shall be
stored at or above the flood protection elevation, floodproofed, or protected
by structural measures consistent with the standards set forth herein.
Furthermore, storage of materials likely to cause pollution of the waters, as
defined in M.S. § 115.01, if subject to flooding are prohibited unless adequate
safeguards approved by the state water pollution control agency are provided.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.512 FLOODWAY DISTRICT (FW).
   (A)   Permitted uses. The following uses, subject to the standards set forth
below, are permitted uses if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning
district or any applicable overlay district:
      (1)   General farming, pasture, grazing, farm fences, outdoor plant
nurseries, horticulture, sod farming and wild crop harvesting.
      (2)   Loading areas, parking areas, streets, trails, airport landing
strips, railroads, bridges, culverts, utility transmission lines and pipelines.
      (3)   Open space uses including, but not limited to, private and public
golf courses, tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds,
boat launching ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves,
game farms, fish hatcheries, shooting preserves, hunting and fishing areas, and
single or multiple purpose recreational trails.
      (4)   Marinas, boat rentals, permanent docks, piers, wharves, and water
control structures and navigational facilities that satisfy Minnesota Rules,
6115.0211.
      (5)   Grading and extraction of soil, sand, gravel, and other materials
for purposes other than stabilization projects.
      (6)   Residential yards, lawns, gardens, parking areas and play areas
provided these uses do not include associated accessory structures.
      (7)   Grading or land alterations associated with stabilization projects.
      (8)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials.
      (9)   Levees or dikes where the intent is to protect agricultural crops
for a frequency flood event equal to or less than the 10-year frequency flood
event.
   (B)   Standards for floodway permitted uses. In addition to the applicable
standards outlined in §
154.511:
      (1)   The use must have a low flood damage potential.
      (2)   The use must not involve structures.
      (3)   The use must not obstruct flood flows, or increase velocities,
stages, or flood damages, as certified by a registered professional engineer.
      (4)   Development that will change the course, current or cross section
of protected wetlands or public waters is required to obtain a public waters
work permit in accordance with M.S. § 103G.245 or a utility crossing license in
accordance with M.S. § 84.415, from the Department of Natural Resources, or
demonstrate that no permit is required, before applying for a local permit.
      (5)   Any facility that will be used by employees or the general public
must be designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time for
evacuation if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth
(in feet) multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a
product of 4 upon occurrence of the base flood.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed as conditional
uses following the standards and procedures set forth in §
154.523 of this subchapter and further subject to the standards set forth below
in this section if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning district.
      (1)   Structures accessory to primary uses listed in §§
154.512 (A)(1) through
154.512 (A)(4) above and primary uses listed in §
154.512 (C)(2) below.
      (2)   Fill and storage of soil, sand, gravel, and other materials for
purposes other than stabilization projects.
      (3)   Fences that have the potential to obstruct flood flows.
   (D)   Standards for floodway conditional uses. In addition to the applicable
standards outlined above in this section and in §§
154.511 and
154.523:
      (1)   Fill; storage of materials and equipment:
         (a)   Fill, dredge spoil, and other similar materials deposited or
stored in the floodplain must be protected from erosion by the use of mulches
or similar materials, with permanent vegetative cover established as soon as
possible. Permanent sand and gravel operations and similar uses must be covered
by a long-term site development plan.
         (b)   Temporary placement of fill, other materials or equipment that
would cause an increase to the stage of the base flood may only be allowed if
the City of Jordan has approved a plan which assures the removal of the
materials from the floodway based upon the flood warning time available.
      (2)   Accessory structures. Accessory structures, as identified above,
may be permitted, provided that:
         (a)   Structures shall not be designed for human habitation;
         (b)   Structures will have a low flood damage potential;
         (c)   Structures will be constructed and placed so as to offer a
minimal obstruction to the flow of flood waters;
         (d)   Structures must be elevated on fill or structurally dry
floodproofed and watertight to the regulatory flood protection elevation.
Certifications consistent with §
154.521 shall be required.
         (e)   As an alternative, an accessory structure may be floodproofed in
a way to accommodate internal flooding. To allow for the equalization of
hydrostatic pressure, there shall be a minimum of 2 openings on at least 2
sides of the structure and the bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1
foot above grade. The openings shall have a minimum net area of not less than 1
square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding, have a
net area of not less than 1 square inch for every square foot of enclosed area
subject to flooding, and shall allow automatic entry and exit of floodwaters
without human intervention. A floodproofing certification consistent with §
154.521 shall be required.
         (f)   A levee, dike or floodwall constructed in the floodway shall not
cause an increase in the base flood. The technical analysis must assume equal
conveyance or storage loss on both sides of a stream.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.513 FLOOD FRINGE DISTRICT (FF).
   (A)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall be those uses of land or
structures listed as permitted uses in the underlying zoning use district(s)
that comply with the below standards.
   (B)   Standards for flood fringe permitted uses. In addition to the
applicable standards outlined in §
154.512:
      (1)   All structures, including accessory structures, must be elevated on
fill so that the lowest floor, as defined, is at or above the regulatory flood
protection elevation (RFPE). The finished fill elevation for structures must be
no lower than 1 foot below the regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE).
Fill for residential structures must extend at the same elevation at least 15
feet beyond the outside limits of the structure. Elevations must be certified
by a registered professional engineer, land surveyor or other qualified person
designated by the community.
      (2)   Accessory structures. As an alternative to the fill requirements
above, any enclosed structures accessory to the uses identified in the above
permitted uses must meet the following provisions:
         (a)   Accessory structures shall constitute a minimal investment not
to exceed 576 square feet in size, and only be used for parking and storage.
         (b)   Accessory structures must allow for the equalization of
hydrostatic pressure by accommodating for the inundation of floodwaters. There
shall be a minimum of 2 openings on at least 2 sides of the structure and the
bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above grade. The openings
shall have a minimum net area of not less than 1 square inch for every square
foot of enclosed area subject to flooding, and shall allow automatic entry and
exit of floodwaters without human intervention.
      (3)   The cumulative placement of fill or similar material on a parcel
must not exceed 1,000 cubic yards, unless the fill is specifically intended to
elevate a structure in accordance with this section above.
      (4)   All fill must be properly compacted and the slopes must be properly
protected by the use of riprap, vegetative cover or other acceptable method.
      (5)   All new principal structures must have vehicular access at or above
an elevation not more than 2 feet below the regulatory flood protection
elevation, or must have a flood warning/emergency evacuation plan acceptable to
the City of Jordan.
      (6)   Accessory uses such as yards, railroad tracks, and parking lots may
be at an elevation lower than the regulatory flood protection elevation.
However, any facilities used by employees or the general public must be
designed with a flood warning system that provides adequate time for evacuation
if the area is inundated to a depth and velocity such that the depth (in feet)
multiplied by the velocity (in feet per second) would exceed a product of 4
upon occurrence of the base flood.
      (7)   Manufactured homes and recreational vehicles must also meet the
standards of §
154.126 of this subchapter.
   (C)   Conditional uses. The following uses may be allowed as conditional
uses following the standards and procedures set forth in §
154.523 of this subchapter and further subject to the standards set forth
below, if otherwise allowed in the underlying zoning district(s):
      (1)   The placement of floodproofed nonresidential basements below the
regulatory flood protection elevation.
      (2)   The cumulative placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill
when the fill is not being used to elevate a structure in accordance with this
section.
      (3)   The use of methods other than fill to elevate structures above the
regulatory flood protection elevation. This includes the use of: stilts,
pilings, filled stem walls, or above-grade, internally flooded enclosed areas
such as crawl spaces or tuck under garages, meeting the standards of
alternative elevation methods in this section below.
   (D)   Standards for flood fringe conditional uses. In addition to the
applicable standards outlined in this section and in §§
154.511 and
154.523:
      (1)   The standards for permitted uses in the flood fringe, listed in
this section, apply to all conditional uses.
      (2)   Residential basements, as defined in §
154.020, are not allowed below the RFPE.
      (3)   All areas of nonresidential structures, including basements, to be
placed below the regulatory flood protection elevation must be structurally dry
floodproofed, which requires making the structure watertight with the walls
substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and the
effects of buoyancy. A floodproofing certification consistent with §
154.521 shall be required.
      (4)   The placement of more than 1,000 cubic yards of fill or other
similar material on a parcel (other than for the purpose of elevating a
structure to the regulatory flood protection elevation) must comply with an
approved erosion/sedimentation control plan.
         (a)   The plan must clearly specify methods to be used to stabilize
the fill on site for a flood event at a minimum of the base flood event.
         (b)   The plan must be prepared and certified by a registered
professional engineer or other qualified individual acceptable to the
(community).
         (c)   The plan may incorporate alternative procedures for removal of
the material from the floodplain if adequate flood warning time exists.
      (5)   Alternative elevation methods other than the use of fill may be
utilized to elevate a structure's lowest floor above the regulatory flood
protection elevation. The base or floor of an enclosed area shall be considered
above-grade and not a structure's basement or lowest floor if: 1) the enclosed
area is above-grade on at least 1 side of the structure; 2) it is designed to
internally flood; and 3) it is used solely for parking of vehicles, building
access or storage. These alternative elevation methods are subject to the
following additional standards:
         (a)   Above-grade, fully enclosed areas such as crawl spaces or tuck
under garages must be designed to internally flood and include a minimum of 2
openings on at least 2 sides of the structure. The bottom of all openings shall
be no higher than 1 foot above grade, and have a minimum net area of not less
than 1 square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding
unless a registered professional engineer or architect certifies that a smaller
net area would suffice.
         (b)   Floodproofing certifications consistent with §
154.520 shall be required. The structure shall be subject to a deed-restricted
nonconversion agreement with the issuance of any permit.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.514 RESERVED.
Other Standards
§ 154.515 SUBDIVISION STANDARDS.
   All subdivisions must satisfy provisions set in the subdivision chapter (
Chapter 153).
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.516 MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   Manufactured homes and manufactured home parks are subject to applicable
standards for each floodplain district. In addition:
   (A)   New and replacement manufactured homes must be elevated in compliance
with §
154.513 of this subchapter and must be securely anchored to a system that
resists flotation, collapse and lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may
include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top or frame ties to ground
anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable state or local anchoring
requirements for resisting wind forces.
   (B)   New manufactured home parks and expansions to existing manufactured
home parks must meet the appropriate standards for subdivisions in
Chapter 153. New or replacement manufactured homes in existing manufactured
home parks must meet the vehicular access requirements for subdivisions in §
153.10 (B).
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.517 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   New recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds and expansions to existing
recreational vehicle parks or campgrounds are prohibited in any floodplain
district. Recreational vehicles placed in existing recreational vehicle parks,
campgrounds or lots of record in the floodplain must either:
   (A)   Meet the requirements for manufactured homes in §
154.516; or
   (B)   Be travel ready, meeting the following criteria:
      (1)   The vehicle must have a current license required for highway use;
      (2)   The vehicle must be highway ready, meaning on wheels or the
internal jacking system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type
utilities commonly used in campgrounds and recreational vehicle parks;
      (3)   No permanent structural type additions may be attached to the
vehicle; and
      (4)   Accessory structures may be permitted in the Flood Fringe District,
provided that they constitute a minimal investment, do not hinder the removal
of the vehicle should flooding occur, and meet the standards outlined in §
154.511 and §
154.513 (B)(2).
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.518 UTILITIES.
   All utilities and facilities such as gas, electrical, sewer, and water
supply systems to be located in the floodplain must be elevated to the
regulatory flood protection elevation (RFPE) or located and constructed to
minimize or eliminate flood damage, such as via burial of the facilities. Fuel
storage tanks must be constructed to minimize or eliminate flood damage,
including but not limited to provisions to prevent such structures from
floating and causing downstream damage.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.519 PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES.
   Railroad tracks, roads, and bridges to be located within the floodplain must
comply with §§
154.512 and
154.513 of this subchapter. These transportation facilities must be elevated to
the regulatory flood protection elevation where failure or interruption of
these facilities would result in danger to the public health or safety or where
such facilities are essential to the orderly functioning of the area. Minor or
auxiliary roads or railroads may be constructed at a lower elevation where
failure or interruption of transportation services would not endanger the
public health or safety.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.520 ON-SITE WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE TREATMENT SYSTEMS.
   Where public utilities are not provided: 1) On-site water supply systems
must be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the
systems and are subject to the provisions in Minnesota Rules, Part 4725.4350,
as amended; and 2) New or replacement on-site sewage treatment systems must be
designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems
and discharges from the systems into flood waters, they must not be subject to
impairment or contamination during times of flooding, and are subject to the
provisions in Minnesota Rules, Part 7080.2270, as amended.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
Administration
§ 154.521 PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application for permit. Permit applications must be submitted to the
Zoning Administrator on forms provided by the Zoning Administrator. The permit
application must include the following as applicable:
      (1)   A site plan showing all pertinent dimensions, existing or proposed
buildings, structures, and significant natural features having an influence on
the permit.
      (2)   Location of fill or storage of materials in relation to the stream
channel.
      (3)   Copies of any required municipal, county, state or federal permits
or approvals.
      (4)   Other relevant information requested by the Zoning Administrator as
necessary to properly evaluate the permit application.
   (B)   Certification. The applicant is required to submit certification by a
registered professional engineer, registered architect, or registered land
surveyor that the finished fill and building elevations were accomplished in
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter. An elevation certificate
matching FEMA Form 086-0-33 (most updated version) must be provided to the city
prior to any structure being occupied or used in any manner. Floodproofing
measures must be certified by a registered professional engineer or registered
architect as being in compliance with applicable floodproofing standards in the
State Building Code. Accessory structures designed in accordance with §
154.513 of this subchapter are exempt from certification, provided sufficient
assurances are documented. A registered professional engineer is required to
certify that any development in established floodways must not cause any
increase in flood elevations, and development in the general floodplain
district will not cumulatively increase flood stages more than ½ foot, or less
if increased damages would result.
   (C)   Certificate of zoning compliance for a new, altered, or nonconforming
use. No building, land or structure may be occupied or used in any manner until
a certificate of zoning compliance has been issued by the Zoning Administrator
stating that the use of the building or land conforms to the requirements of
this chapter.
   (D)   Recordkeeping of certifications and as-built documentation. The Zoning
Administrator must maintain records in perpetuity documenting:
      (1)   All certifications referenced above in this section as applicable.
      (2)   Elevations complying with §
154.513 of this subchapter. The Zoning Administrator must also maintain a
record of the elevation to which structures and alterations to structures are
constructed or floodproofed.
   (E)   Notifications for watercourse alterations. Before authorizing any
alteration or relocation of a river or stream, the Zoning Administrator must
notify adjacent communities. If the applicant has applied for a permit to work
in public waters pursuant to M.S. § 103G.245, this will suffice as adequate
notice. A copy of the notification must also be submitted to the Chicago
Regional Office of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.522 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variance applications. An application for a variance to the provisions
of this subchapter will be processed and reviewed in accordance with applicable
State Statutes and §
154.048 of this zoning chapter.
   (B)   Adherence to state floodplain management standards. A variance must
not allow a use that is not allowed in that district, permit a lower degree of
flood protection than the regulatory flood protection elevation for the
particular area, or permit standards lower than those required by state law.
   (C)   Additional variance criteria. The following additional variance
criteria of the Federal Emergency Management Agency must be satisfied:
      (1)   Variances must not be issued by a community within any designated
regulatory floodway if any increase in flood levels during the base flood
discharge would result.
      (2)   Variances may only be issued by a community upon:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will not result
in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the
public, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
   (D)   Variances may only be issued upon a determination that the variance is
the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
   (E)   Flood insurance notice. The Zoning Administrator must notify the
applicant for a variance that: 1) the issuance of a variance to construct a
structure below the base flood level will result in increased premium rates for
flood insurance up to amounts as high as $25 for $100 of insurance coverage;
and 2) Such construction below the base flood level increases risks to life and
property. Such notification must be maintained with a record of all variance
actions.
   (F)   General considerations. The community may consider the following
variables, and consider imposing conditions on variances and conditional uses:
      (1)   The potential danger to life and property due to increased flood
heights or velocities caused by encroachments.
      (2)   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands or
downstream to the injury of others.
      (3)   The proposed water supply and sanitation systems, if any, and the
ability of these systems to minimize the potential for disease, contamination
and unsanitary conditions.
      (4)   The susceptibility of any proposed use and its contents to flood
damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner.
      (5)   The importance of the services to be provided by the proposed use
to the community.
      (6)   The requirements of the facility for a waterfront location.
      (7)   The availability of viable alternative locations for the proposed
use that are not subject to flooding.
      (8)   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing development and
development anticipated in the foreseeable future.
      (9)   The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive land use
plan and floodplain management program for the area.
      (10)   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles.
      (11)   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters expected at the site.
   (G)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural Resources.
The Zoning Administrator must submit hearing notices for proposed variances to
the Department of Natural Resources sufficiently in advance to provide at least
10 days' notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic mail or
U.S. mail to the respective area hydrologist.
   (H)   Submittal of final decisions to the Department of Natural Resources. A
copy of all decisions granting variances must be forwarded to the Department of
Natural Resources within 10 days of such action. The notice may be sent by
electronic mail or U.S. mail to the respective area hydrologist.
   (I)   Record-keeping. The Zoning Administrator must maintain a record of all
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and must report
such variances in an annual or biennial report to the Administrator of the
National Flood Insurance Program, when requested by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.523 CONDITIONAL USES.
   (A)   Administrative review. An application for a conditional use permit
under the provisions of this chapter will be processed and reviewed in
accordance with §
154.047 of this zoning chapter.
   (B)   Factors used in decision-making. In passing upon conditional use
applications, the City of Jordan must consider all relevant factors specified
in this zoning chapter, and those factors identified in §
154.522 above.
   (C)   Conditions attached to conditional use permits. In addition to the
standards identified in §§
154.512 and
154.513, the City of Jordan may attach such conditions to the granting of
conditional use permits as it deems necessary to fulfill the purposes of this
chapter. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Limitations on period of use, occupancy, and operation.
      (2)   Imposition of operational controls, sureties, and deed
restrictions.
      (3)   Requirements for construction of channel modifications,
compensatory storage, dikes, levees, and other protective measures.
   (D)   Submittal of hearing notices to the Department of Natural Resources.
The Zoning Administrator must submit hearing notices for proposed conditional
uses to the Department of Natural Resources sufficiently in advance to provide
at least 10 days' notice of the hearing. The notice may be sent by electronic
mail or U.S. mail to the respective area hydrologist.
   (E)   Submittal of final decisions to the Department of Natural Resources. A
copy of all decisions granting conditional uses must be forwarded to the
Department of Natural Resources within 10 days of such action. The notice may
be sent by electronic mail or U.S. mail to the respective area hydrologist.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.524 CONTINUANCE OF NONCONFORMITIES.
   A use, structure, or occupancy of land which was lawful before the effective
date of this chapter but which is not in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter may be continued subject to the following conditions. Historic
structures, as defined in §
154.020 of this chapter, are subject to the provisions below.
   (A)   A nonconforming use, structure, or occupancy must not be expanded,
changed, enlarged, or altered in a way that increases its flood damage
potential or degree of obstruction to flood flows except as provided below in
this section. Expansion or enlargement of uses, structures or occupancies
within the Floodway District is prohibited.
   (B)   Any addition or structural alteration to a nonconforming structure or
nonconforming use that would result in increasing its flood damage potential
must be protected to the regulatory flood protection elevation in accordance
with any of the elevation on fill or floodproofing techniques allowable in the
State Building Code, except as further restricted below in this section.
   (C)   If any nonconforming use, or any use of a nonconforming structure, is
discontinued for more than 1 year, any future use of the premises must conform
to this subchapter.
   (D)   If any structure experiences a substantial improvement, as defined in
§
154.020, then the entire structure must meet the standards of §§
154.512 or
154.513 of this subchapter for new structures, depending upon whether the
structure is in the Floodway or Flood Fringe District, respectively. If the
proposed development, including maintenance and repair during the previous 365
days, exceeds 50% of the market value of any nonconforming structure, the
entire structure must meet the standards of §§
154.512 or
154.513 of this subchapter.
   (E)   If any nonconformity is substantially damaged, as defined in §
154.020, it may not be reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions
of this chapter. The applicable provisions for establishing new uses or new
structures in §§
154.512 or
154.513 will apply depending upon whether the use or structure is in the
Floodway or Flood Fringe, respectively.
   (F)   If any nonconforming use or structure experiences a repetitive loss,
as defined in §
154.020, it shall be considered substantially damaged and must not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021; Am. Ord. 2023-05, passed 8-28-2023)
§ 154.525 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violation constitutes a misdemeanor. Violation of the provisions of
this chapter or failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with grants
of variances or conditional uses) constitute a misdemeanor and will be
punishable as defined by law.
   (B)   Other lawful action. Nothing in this chapter restricts the City of
Jordan from taking such other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or
remedy any violation. If the responsible party does not appropriately respond
to the Zoning Administrator within the specified period of time, each
additional day that lapses will constitute an additional violation of this
chapter and will be prosecuted accordingly.
   (C)   Enforcement. Violations of the provisions of this chapter will be
investigated and resolved in accordance with the provisions of §
10.20 of the City Code. In responding to a suspected subchapter violation, the
City of Jordan may utilize the full array of enforcement actions available to
it including but not limited to prosecution and fines, injunctions, after-the-
fact permits, orders for corrective measures or a request to the National Flood
Insurance Program for denial of flood insurance availability to the guilty
party. The City of Jordan must act in good faith to enforce these official
controls and to correct ordinance violations to the extent possible so as not
to jeopardize its eligibility in the National Flood Insurance Program.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
§ 154.526 AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   Floodplain designation; restrictions on removal. The floodplain
designation on the Official Zoning Map must not be removed from floodplain
areas unless it can be shown that the designation is in error or that the area
has been filled to or above the elevation of the regulatory flood protection
elevation and is contiguous to lands outside the floodplain. Special exceptions
to this rule may be permitted by the Department of Natural Resources if it is
determined that, through other measures, lands are adequately protected for the
intended use.
   (B)   Required approval. All amendments to this subchapter must be submitted
to and approved by the Department of Natural Resources prior to adoption.
   (C)   Map revisions require subchapter amendments. The floodplain district
regulations must be amended to incorporate any revisions by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency to the floodplain maps adopted in §
154.503 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 2020-09, passed 1-4-2021)
PENALTY
§ 154.999 VIOLATION AND MISDEMEANOR.
   (A)   If the city staff determines a person has violated this chapter, the
City Administrator shall notify the owner and/or the person believed to be
responsible for the violation of the and the imposition of an administrative
penalty in the amount set by Council for each day thereafter that the violation
remains, as a separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues. The written notice shall inform the
recipient of his or her right to appeal an administrative penalty under
division (B) below. The notice may be served personally or by certified mail,
return receipt requested, to the most recent address on file of property owner
and/or person believed to be responsible for the violation.
   (B)   A person notified of the imposition of an administrative penalty
pursuant to division (A) above, may request a hearing before the City Council
by submitting a notice of appeal to the City Administrator within 20 days of
receipt of written notice of administrative penalty. Following a timely receipt
of a written notice of appeal, the person shall be afforded an opportunity for
a hearing before the City Council. The City Council may affirm, adjust, or
waive the administrative penalty. The administrative penalty shall be effective
beginning on the date the property owner and/or person believed to be
responsible for the violation receipt of the written notification from the City
Administrator and continuing until violation is eliminated/resolved to the
city’s satisfaction, unless adjusted or waived by City Council at the
conclusion of an appeal.
   (C)   If, after the City Administrator has provided written notice of the
imposition of an administrative penalty, and the appeal period has expired or
the administrative penalty was either affirmed or adjusted by the City Council
at the conclusion of a timely appeal, and the administrative penalty remains
unpaid, or the situation creating the alleged violation remains uncorrected the
later of 30 days after the expiration of the time to request an appeal hearing
or after the date of the appeal hearing, the city, through its Attorney, may
bring criminal charges in accordance with state law and this Code. Likewise,
the city, in its discretion, may bring criminal charges in the first instance,
rather than requesting the payment of an administrative penalty, even if a
penalty for the particular violation has been established by Council
resolution. If the administrative penalty is paid, or if any requested
correction of the situation resulting in the violation is completed, no
criminal charges shall be initiated by the city for the alleged violation. Any
person violating this section may be charged with a misdemeanor. A separate
misdemeanor shall be deemed to have been committed upon each day during which a
violation of the Code occurs or continues.
(Ord. 2013-05, passed 5-20-2013; Am. Ord. 2021-13, passed 9-20-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
      
II.   STREET AND ALLEY VACATIONS
      
III.   ANNEXATIONS
      
IV.   ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
TABLE I: FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.          Date Passed Description
73-37             7-2-1973    Grants a gas franchise to Minnesota Natural Gas
                              Company for a period of 20 years
80-4              10-30-1980  Grants a cable television franchise to Valley
                              View Cable, Inc., for a period of 15 years
81-2              2-23-1981   Amends Ord. 80-4
81-3              5-18-1981   Amends Ord. 80-4 and 81-2
17-93             3-15-1993   Grants an electric franchise to Northern States
                              Power Company for a period of 20 years
2-94              2-7-1994    Grants a cable television franchise to Amzak
94-8              7-28-1994   Amends Ord. 80-4
16-95             1-2-1996    Grants a cable television franchise to Minnesota
                              Cable Properties, Inc., for a period of 15 years
76, Second Series 6-21-2004   Grants a gas franchise to Greater Minnesota Gas,
                              Inc.
2009-005          6-1-2009    Grants a gas franchise to Centerpoint Energy
                              Resources Corp.
                              Granting a franchise to Comcast of Arkansas/
2012-01           1-3-2012    Florida/Louisiana/Minnesota/Mississippi/
                              Tennessee, Inc.
                              Granting an electric franchise to Northern States
2015-10           8-3-2015    Power Company, D/B/A Xcel Energy its successors
                              and ensigns.
                              Granting a nonexclusive fiber optic cable system
2018-15           9- -2018    franchise to Jaguar Communications, Inc. for a
                              period of 15 years.
                              Granting a nonexclusive cable communication
2018-16           10-15-2018  franchise to Jaguar Communications, Inc. for a
                              period of 15 years.
                             
 
TABLE II: STREET AND ALLEY VACATIONS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
73-7     7-2-1973    Vacates part of Adams Lane, Lots 17, 18 and 19, Skyline
                     Addition
73-8     7-2-1973    Vacates parts of Blocks 2, 3, 4, 5 and 9, lying north of
                     U.S. Trunk Highway 169, Dols Addition
73-9     7-2-1973    Vacates portion of driveway of lot 10, Block 7, Dols
                     Addition
                    
 
TABLE III: ANNEXATIONS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.          Date Passed Description
                              Parts of S-1/2 of SE-1/4, 18-114-23 and parts of
73-5              5-4-1970    Blocks 3, 4 and 9, Dols Addition in SE-1/4, 18-
                              114-23
73-6              1-6-1969    Tracts in E-1/2 of NW-1/4, NW-1/4 of NW-1/4 and
                              W-1/2 of NW-1/4, all in 30-114-23
73-36             4-7-1969    Amends Ord. 73-6 adopted as Ord. 137 to include
                              additional land
73-58             9-4-1973    Tract in NE-1/4 of SE-1/4, 18-114-23
73-57             9-4-1973    East 485 feet of E-1/2 of NW-1/4, 18-114-23
76-2              2-2-1976    Tracts in SE-1/4 of NE-1/4, 30-114-23 and SW-1/
                              4 of NW-1/4 and NW-1/4 of SW-1/4, 29-114-23
76-3              2-2-1976    East 485 feet of E-1/2 of NW-1/4, 18-114-23
76-4              2-2-1976    Tract in NE-1/4 of SE-1/4, 18-114-23
76-5              2-2-1976    Tract in E-1/2 of NW-1/4, 30-114-23
9-92              10-5-1992   Part of NE-1/4 of SE-1/4, 30-114-23
11-92             10-5-1992   North 30 acres of W-1/2 of SE-1/4, 20-114-23
6-94              5-2-1994    Part of NW-1/4 of NW-1/4, 30-114-23
14-95             10-16-1995  Part of NW-1/4, 18-114-23
23-96             6-26-1996   Part of W-1/2 of NW-1/4, 30-114-23
7, Second Series  - -1998     Extending the corporate limits
8, Second Series  - -1998     Extending the corporate limits
9, Second Series  - -1998     Extending the corporate limits
56, Second Series 5-19-2003   Extending the corporate limits
72, Second Series 2-2-2004    Extending the corporate limits
79, Second Series 8-2-2004    Extending the corporate limits
2010-06           10-4-2010   Extending the corporate limits
                              Authorizing annexation of property owned by
2018-07           5-21-18     Independent School District 717, located in the
                              Township of Sand Creek, Scott County, being 39.51
                              acres.
                              Authorizing annexation of property owned by
2018-13           7-16-2018   Independent School District 717, located within
                              the Township of Sand Creek, Scott County, being
                              35.78 acres
                              The south 4.75 feet of the SE-1/4 of Section 25,
2018-19           11-19-2018  Township 114 North, Range 24 West; the north
                              327.11 feet of the NE-1/4 of the NE-1/4 of
                              Section 26, Township 114 North, Range 24 West
2023-07           11-27-2023  Annexing land located in Sand Creek Township,
                              Scott County, being 20.88 acres
                             
 
TABLE IV: ZONING MAP AMENDMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord.   Date   Description
No.    Passed
4-83   5-16-  Amending zoning map
       1983
5-84   3-19-  Amending zoning map
       1984
2-90   4-16-  Amending zoning map
       1990
12-92  10-5-  Amending zoning map
       1992
14-93  1-4-   Amending zoning map
       1993
18-93  5-3-   Amending zoning map
       1993
20-93  9-7-   Amending zoning map
       1993
15-95  12-14- Amending zoning map
       1995
11,    11-16-
Second 1998   Amending zoning map
Series
26,    10-18-
Second 1999   Amending zoning map
Series
31,    5-15-
Second 2000   Amending zoning map
Series
34,    9-5-
Second 2000   Amending zoning map
Series
38,    10-16-
Second 2000   Amending zoning map
Series
47,    5-6-
Second 2002   Amending zoning map
Series
64,    11-3-
Second 2003   Amending zoning map
Series
66,    12-1-
Second 2003   Amending zoning map
Series
68,    12-1-
Second 2003   Amending zoning map
Series
91,    11-7-  Zoning map amended to include zoning classification R3 for Outlot B and Block 4
Second 2005   of Bridle Creek 7th Addition
Series
99,    11-6-  Zoning map amended to include zoning classification C1, for Tract B of Registered
Second 2006   Land Survey 188 and temporary easements nos 2, 3, and 4 as shown on ROW Plat Map
Series        #3
              Zoning map amended to include zoning classification R3 for that part of the East
2007-  2-20-  684.80 feet of the east half of the Northwest Quarter of Section 30, Township
003    2007   114, Range 23 lying northerly of Old Highway No. 169 and south of the south line
              of its westerly extension, of Parcel 5, Right-of-Way Plat No. 1
              Zoning map amendment to rezone the following parcels to C-3: Parcel ID#
2012-  8-6-   229190040; Parcel ID# 229190030; Parcel ID# 229190010; Parcel ID# 229190020;
06     2012   Parcel ID# 229190761; Parcel ID# 229190740; Parcel ID# 229190760; Parcel ID#
              220011060; Parcel ID# 220010920; Parcel ID# 220010880; Parcel ID# 220010881;
              Parcel ID# 220010890; Parcel ID# 220010900; Parcel ID# 220010910.
2012-  11-19- Zoning map amendment to rezone the following parcels to C-3: 500 Broadway St. S.;
12     2012   512 Broadway St. S.; 520 Broadway St. S.; 504 Broadway St. S.; 516 Broadway St.
              S.
2012-  11-19- Zoning map amendment to rezone the following parcels to C-3: Parcel ID#
14     2012   220280030; 108 Creek Lane S; 116 Creek Lane S.
2012-  11-19- Zoning map amendment to rezone the following parcels to C-3: Parcel ID#
15     2012   229090050; 19226 Valley View Dr.; 19250 Valley View Dr.
2012-  12-3-  Zoning map amendment to rezone 210 and 215 Broadway from R-2 to C-2.
16     2012
2012-  1-22-  Zoning map amendment to rezone the following parcels to C-2: 100 Broadway St. S;
18     2013   101 Broadway St. S; 216 Second St. E; Parcel ID# 220020780; Parcel ID# 220020781.
2013-  4-1-   Zoning map amendment to rezone the following parcels from I-1 to R-3: 720
01     2013   Syndicate St.; 716 Syndicate St.; 900 Syndicate St.
2013-  4-1-   Zoning map amendment to rezone the following parcels from C-2 to R-2: 309 Mill
02     2013   St.; 313 Mill St.; 317 Mill St.; 321 Mill St.; 327 Mill St.
              Zoning map amendment to rezone the following parcels: 519 Broadway from RR to R-
              2; 912 2nd St. E from RR to R-1; 608 Kipp Dr. from RR to R-1; 604 Kipp Dr. from
              RR to R-1; 600 Kipp Dr. from RR to R-1; Parcel ID# 220300040 from RR to R-1; 523
              Broadway St. S from RR to R-1; Parcel ID# 220300050 from RR to R-1; 912 2nd St. E
              from RR to R-1; 105 Lydia Rd. from RR to R-1; 107 Lydia Rd. from RR to R-1; 521
              Broadway from RR to R-2; Parcel ID# 220560360 from RR to R-2; Parcel ID#
              220560370 from RR to R-2; Parcel ID# 220560380 from RR to R-2; Parcel ID#
2013-  5-20-  220740260 RR to R-1; 390 Sunset Dr. from RR to R-2; Parcel ID# 229190500 from RR
04     2013   to R-2; 208 Maple Lane from RR to R-1; 212 Maple Lane from RR to R-1; Parcel ID#
              229200080 from RR to R-1; 205 East St. from RR to R-1; 441 Sunset Dr. from RR to
              R-1; Parcel ID# 229300020 from RR to R-1; 221 Old Hwy 169 Blvd. from RR to R-1;
              612 Kipp Dr. from RR to R-1; 624 Broadway St. S from RR to R-1; Parcel ID#
              229300060 from RR to R-1; 711 Broadway St. S from RR to R-1; Parcel ID# 229300071
              from RR to R-1; 710 Broadway from RR to R-1; 104 Sawmill Rd. from RR to R-1; 625
              Broadway St. S from RR to R-1; 629 Broadway St. S from RR to R- 1; 621 Broadway
              Ave. from RR to R-1; Parcel ID# 229300240 from RR to R-1; Parcel ID# 229300450
              from RR to R-1.
2013-  8-5-   Zoning map amendment to rezone the following parcels: 305 5th Street W from R-
07     2013   3 to R-2; 500 Wood Street N from R-3 to R-2; 102 Sawmill Rd. from RR to R-1; 523
              Broadway St. S from RR to R-1; Parcel ID# 220360010 from RR to R-1.
2014-  1- -   Zoning map amendment to rezone the following parcels: 920 Syndicate from RR to R-
01     2014   3; 102 Sawmill Road from RR to R-1.
2014-  5-19-  Zoning map amendment to rezone the east ‘A of the SE ¼ of the SE ¼ of Section 13,
06     2014   Township 114 Range 024 from I-1 to I-2.
2018-  7-2-   Zoning map amendment to rezone Lots 1 - 4, Block 3, Whispering Meadows from
11     2018   Highway Commercial (C-3) to Multiple Family Residential (R-4).
2019-  10-21- Zoning map amendment to include zoning classification R-1 for the property
05     2019   located at 1132 Stonebridge Path.
2019-  10-21- Zoning map amendment to include classification R-4 for the property located at
06     2019   940 Broadway St. S.
2019-  10-21- Zoning map amendment to include classification R-4 for the property located at
06     2019   940 Broadway St. S.
              Zoning map amendment to include classification C-1 for two properties located at
              523 Broadway Street; for 33 properties located at 109 West Street South, 109 1st
              Street West, 105 1st Street West, 101 1st Street West, 108 Varner Street South,
              105 Varner Street South, 100 2nd Street East, 104 2nd Street East, 108 2nd Street
2021-  5-17-  East, 112 2nd Street East, 212 Broadway Street North, 208 Broadway Street North,
06     2021   212 3rd Street East, 300 Broadway Street North, 308 Broadway Street North, 312
              Broadway Street North, 316 Broadway Street North, 308 4th Street East, 309
              Broadway Street North, 308 2nd Street East, 312 2nd Street East, 316 2nd Street
              East, 110 Mill Street, 321 1st Street East, 317 1st Street East, 313 1st Street
              East, 308 1st Street East, 315 Water Street, 208 Mill Street, 319 Water Street,
              316 Water Street, 320 Water Street; and one property located at 200 Mill Street.
2022-  5-23-  Zoning map amendment to include classification I-2 for property located at Lot 1,
03     2022   Block 1, Brick’s Boatworks Addition.
             
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Minnesota Statutes
Minnesota Rules
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA STATUTES
M.S. Cites Code Section
M.S. Cites                     Code Section
12                             33.02
13D.01                         113.02
14.57 to 14.69                 122.13
                               111.36,
14.57 to 14.70                 111.99,
                               116.09,
                               124.99
15.99                          154.333
15.99, Subd. 2                 154.046
Ch. 18.00                      90.028
18.023                         90.047
18.171, Subd. 5                154.326
Ch. 18G                        90.046
18G.13                         90.045
28A                            125.03
35.71                          92.09
65B.48, Subd. 3                123.07
80A                            120.02
84.92                          71.09
84.415                         154.512
87A                            154.173
88                             90.070
103A to 103L                   153.11
103A to 103G                   153.02,
                               153.11
103B.231                       154.020
103D.011, Subd. 23 and 24      154.020
Ch. 103E                       154.339
Ch. 103F                       154.500
103G et seq.                   153.14
103G.005, Subd. 15             154.020
103G.005, Subd. 19             153.02
                               154.337 ,
103G.245                       154.512,
                               154.522
103G.405                       154.293
114.391                        113.01
115.01                         154.511
115A.931                       116.01
116.06                         90.001
144.411 through 144.417        113.09
144.413, Subd. 1a              113.02,
                               154.020
144.413, Subd. 2               113.02
144.413, Subd. 5               113.02
144.414(b)                     113.01
144.562                        154.020
144A.01, Subd. 5               154.020
Ch. 144G                       154.020
Ch. 145A                       90.001
145A.04, Subd. 10              90.005,
                               90.007
145A.05, Subd. 1               130.05
145A.08                        90.005
                               Ch. 118,
Ch. 146A                       118.02,
                               118.09
149A.02, Subd. 23              154.020
152.01 - 152.025               124.07
152.02, Schedules I through V  90.001
152.027, Subds. 1. and 2.      124.07
152.0275                       90.001
152.0275, Subd. 2(g)           90.005
152.0275, Subd. 2(h)           90.005
157                            125.03
157.15, Subd. 9                125.02,
                               125.04
157.16                         111.03
157.16, Subd. 3d.              111.03
160.292 - 160.297              154.248
                               Ch. 71,
168                            71.01,
                               91.01
168.011, Subd. 22              71.09
168.021                        154.224
168B.035                       73.12
                               70.01,
                               Ch. 71,
                               71.01,
169                            71.09,
                               72.01,
                               72.02,
                               91.01
169.045                        71.12
169.69                         71.11
169.80 through 169.89          70.08
169.89, Subd. 1                70.08
169.522                        71.12
169.693                        71.11
169A                           71.01
                               Ch. 71,
171                            72.01,
                               72.02
Ch. 216D                       150.114
216D.01-09                     150.114,
                               150.126
216D.01 et seq.                154.326
237.162                        150.111,
                               150.119
237.163                        150.119
245.02                         154.020
245A.01 through 245A.16        154.020
246.0141                       113.08
252.28                         154.020
Ch. 254B                       154.020
260.195                        130.99
273.124, Subd. 6               124.02
278                            122.13
278.01 through 278.13          118.12
299C.67, Subd.4.               32.21
299C.67 to 299C.71             32.21
303.02                         118.06
325F.33                        120.02
325F.731                       120.02
325F.731 through 325F.744      120.04
325F.734 to 325F.742           120.02
326B.101                       150.100
326B.101 to 326B.16            150.100
326B.121                       150.100
326B.133                       150.100
326B.148                       150.100
326B.153                       150.100
327C.14                        151.06
3265.121, Subd. 1              150.100
333                            122.08
333.02                         118.06
                               111.01,
                               111.02,
                               111.20,
340A                           111.22,
                               111.23,
                               111.36,
                               111.38,  
                               111.99
340A.14, Subd. 6               111.22
340A.22                        111.22
340A.101                       111.03,
                               111.22
340A.301, Subd. 6              111.22
340A.401                       124.07
340A.4011, Subd. 1             111.22
340A.404, Subd. 1(4)           111.37
340A.404, Subd. 4a             111.22
340A.404, Subd. 4b             111.22
340A.404, Subd. 5              111.22
340A.408, Subd. 2b             111.22
340A.408, Subd. 3              111.22
340A.408, Subd. 5              111.23
340A.409                       111.25
340A.413                       111.20,
                               111.37
340A.414                       111.35
340A.503                       124.07
340A.503, Subd. 1(a)(1)        130.05
340A.503, Subd. 6              113.99,
                               130.04
340A.504                       111.33
340A.504, Subd. 3              111.22
340A.504, Subd. 3c             111.22
340A.509                       111.02
340A.801                       111.25
Ch. 342                        126.03
342.01                         126.02,
                               130.06
342.11                         126.03
                               154.142,
342.13                         154.152,
                               154.162,
                               154.172
342.22                         126.01
342.22, Subd. 4(b)             126.05
342.24                         126.05
342.39, Subd. 2                126.08
343                            92.17
344.02, Subd. 1(a-d)           154.020
347.50                         154.153
347.51                         92.17
347.52                         92.17
347.50, Subd. 8                92.17
347.53                         92.17
347.515                        92.17
                               114.01,
349                            114.02,
                               114.14
349.11 through 349.21          114.99
349.11 through 349.23          114.06
349.12                         114.04
349.12, Subd. 27               114.12,
                               114.13
349.213                        114.02
349.213, Subd. 1(g)            114.13
364                            32.21
                               118.09,
364.03, Subd. 2                118.16,
                               123.16
364.03, Subd. 3                123.16
                               118.09,
364.03, Subd. 3                118.16,
                               122.06
366.011                        54.02
366.012                        54.02
412                            153.03
412.02                         30.07
412.221, Subd. 32, and 462.358 153.03
412.925                        154.324,
                               154.326
                               32.04,
                               50.05,
                               90.006,
429                            96.02,
                               150.124,
                               153.03,
                               154.322
429.101                        90.029,
                               90.051
435.193                        32.07
435.194                        32.07
443.015                        116.07
444.075                        52.41
461.12, subd. 4                113.99
461.19                         113.01
461.20                         113.08
                               150.124,
462                            154.331 ,
                               154.500
462.351—432.3535             153.03
462.357                        153.17,
                               154.020
462.357, Subd. 1e              154.212,
                               154.297
462.357, Subd. 6               153.17,
                               154.048
462.358                        154.020
462.358, Subd. 1A              153.03
462.359                        154.020
462.3593                       154.053
462.3593, Subd. 9              154.053
Ch. 463                        90.005,
                               90.011
463.21                         90.010
463.251                        90.010
469.095, Subd. 2               31.20
471                            153.03
471.345, Subd. 17              32.02
471.924                        120.04
504B.205, subd. 3              124.08
505                            153.03,
                               154.020
505.00                         154.197
505.01                         153.02
505.22                         153.06
515                            153.16
515A                           124.02
515B                           153.16
515B.00                        154.195
515B.1-103                     153.02
518B.01                        122.12,
                               122.13
524.1-201(20)                  130.04
524.5-207                      130.04
582.031                        90.010
                               10.99,
609.02, Subd. 3                123.99,
                               124.19,
                               125.99
609.02, Subd. 4a.              10.99,
                               71.99
609.02, Subd. 7a               92.17
609.02, Subd. 8                92.17
609.03                         130.99
609.66 through 609.67          124.07
609.75 through 609.76          124.07
609.75 through 609.763         114.06,
                               114.99
609.293 to 609.352             122.12,
                               122.13
609.321 through 609.324        124.07
609.487, Subd. 2a              90.001
609.523                        120.10
609.685                        113.99
609.685 through 609.6855       113.99
609.72                         124.07
609.746 to 609.749             122.12,
                               122.13
609.79                         122.12,
                               122.13
617.251                        122.04
617.293                        122.04
617.295                        122.04
624.712 through 624.716        124.07
629.5572, Subd. 1              90.001
978.021                        124.07
978.045                        124.07
                               
 
REFERENCES TO MINNESOTA RULES
Minn. Rules Code Section
Minn. Rules                       Code Section
4410.4400                         154.172
4715.0100                         51.12
4715.0310                         51.12
4715.1920                         51.12
4720.0025                         51.12
4725.4350                         154.520
6115.0211                         154.512
6120.2500 - 6120.3900             154.020
6120.3000                         154.284
6120.5000 - 6120.6200             154.500
6120.5000                         154.020
7030                              154.392,
                                  154.393
                                  154.086,
                                  154.096,
                                  154.106,
7030.0040                         154.116,
                                  154.126,
                                  154.136,
                                  154.167,
                                  154.177
                                  154.086,
                                  154.096,
                                  154.106,
7030.0050                         154.116,
                                  154.126,
                                  154.136,
                                  154.167,
                                  154.177
7030.1000 - 7030.1060             71.11
7080                              154.340
7080.1100, subd. 37               125.02
7080.2270                         154.520
7417.0400                         92.17
7560                              150.114,
                                  150.119
7560.0100                         150.111
7560.0100, subparts 1 through 12  150.111
7560.0150, subpart 2              150.124 
7819.0100                         150.111
7819.0100, subparts. 1 through 25 150.111
7819.0100, subpart 6              150.116
7819.1000                         150.115
7819.1000, subpart 3              150.112
7819.1100                         150.116,
                                  150.119
7819.1250                         150.129
7819.1300                         150.120
7819.3000                         150.116
7819.3100                         150.125
7819.3200                         150.128
7819.4000                         150.124
7819.4100                         150.124
7819.5000                         150.125
7819.5100                         150.125
8410                              154.020
8420                              154.337
9555.5105, subpart 18             154.020
                                  
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2006 Code
Prior Code 2006 Code
2.01       30.01
2.02       30.02
2.03       30.02
2.04       30.03
2.05       11.01
2.06       30.04
2.07       30.05
2.08       30.06
2.09       30.20
2.10       33.01
2.11       33.02—
           33.04
2.12       30.21
2.13       32.01
2.20       31.01
2.21       31.02
2.22       31.03
2.23       31.04
2.24       31.05
2.25       31.06
2.26       31.07
2.33       31.20
2.34       31.21
2.35       31.22
2.36       31.23
2.60       32.02
2.61       32.20
2.62       32.04
2.63       32.35—
           32.39
2.64       32.05
2.65       32.06
2.66       32.03
3.01       50.01
3.02       50.02
3.03       50.03
3.04       50.04
3.05       50.05
3.20       51.01—
           51.12
           51.20,
3.30       52.01—
           52.08
           51.14,
3.31       52.20—
           52.23,
           52.25
3.32       52.40—
           52.47
3.33       53.01,
           53.02
3.34       54.01,
           54.02
3.99       50.99
4.01       150.100
4.02       150.101
4.03       150.102
4.04       150.020—
           150.026
4.05       150.040—
           150.048
4.06       150.060—
           150.074
4.10       150.085—
           150.089
4.11       150.001
4.20       150.002
4.30       151.01—
           151.08
4.40       152.01—
           152.07
           150.999,
4.99       151.99,
           152.99
5.15       111.07
5.16       111.08
5.18       111.05
5.19       111.06
5.72       111.38
5.82       111.39
5.83       111.39
6.01       110.01
6.02       110.02
6.03       110.03
6.04       110.04
6.05       110.05
6.06       110.06
6.07       110.07
6.08       110.08
6.09       110.09
6.10       110.10
6.11       110.11
6.12       110.12
6.13       120.01—
           120.12
6.30       112.01—
           112.03
6.31       112.20—
           112.23
           113.01—
6.32       113.07,
           113.99
           115.01—
6.34       115.10,
           115.99
6.35       116.01—
           116.05
           117.01,
6.36       117.10—
           117.17
6.38       117.25—
           117.28
6.40       121.01—
           121.04
6.99       110.99
7.01       70.01
7.02       70.02
7.04       70.04
7.05       96.01
7.06       96.02
7.07       96.03
7.08       96.04
7.09       96.05
7.10       96.06
7.11       70.08
7.12       96.07
7.13       96.08
7.14       70.05
7.15       70.06
7.16       70.07
7.17       96.09
7.18       96.10
7.99       70.99,
           96.99
8.01       71.01
8.02       71.02
8.03       72.01—
           72.06
8.04       71.03
8.05       71.04
8.06       71.04
8.07       71.05
8.08       71.06
8.09       71.07
8.10       71.08
8.11       71.09
8.12       71.10
8.99       71.99,
           72.99
9.01       73.01
9.02       73.02
9.03       73.03
9.04       73.04
9.05       73.05
9.06       73.06
9.07       73.07
9.08       73.08
9.10       73.10
9.11       73.11
9.12       73.12
9.13       73.13
9.14       73.14
9.15       73.15
9.16       73.16
9.17       73.17
9.99       73.99
           90.001—
           90.003,
10.01      90.006,
           90.009,
           90.999
           91.01—
10.02      91.08,
           91.20—
           91.23
10.03      90.025—
           90.029
10.04      130.01
10.05      130.02
10.10      92.01—
           92.16
10.11      92.30—
           92.35
10.12      92.50
10.13      92.51
10.20      90.045—
           90.057
           90.070—
10.21      90.075,
           90.999
10.22      93.01—
           93.03
           130.03,
10.30      130.04,
           130.99
10.31      130.01
10.50      94.01
10.99      130.99
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.           Date Passed Code Section
62                 - -         51.06
73-6               1-6-1969    TSO Table III
73-36              4-7-1969    TSO Table III
141                5-4-1969    TSO Table I
73-5               5-4-1970    TSO Table III
73-7               7-2-1973    TSO Table II
73-8               7-2-1973    TSO Table II
73-9               7-2-1973    TSO Table II
73-37              7-2-1973    TSO Table I
73-57              9-4-1973    TSO Table III
73-58              9-4-1973    TSO Table III
76-2               2-2-1976    TSO Table III
76-3               2-2-1976    TSO Table III
76-4               2-2-1976    TSO Table III
76-5               2-2-1976    TSO Table III
80-4               10-30-1980  TSO Table I
81-2               2-23-1981   TSO Table I
81-3               5-18-1981   TSO Table I
4-83               5-16-1983   TSO Table IV
5-84               3-19-1984   TSO Table IV
142                9-2-1988    151.01—
                               151.08
141                5-15-1989   TSO Table I
2-90               4-16-1990   TSO Table IV
1-90               4-27-1990   151.05
9-92               10-5-1992   TSO Table III
11-92              10-5-1992   TSO Table III
12-92              10-5-1992   TSO Table IV
14-93              1-4-1993    TSO Table IV
17-93              3-15-1993   TSO Table I
18-93              5-3-1993    TSO Table IV
19-93              5-28-1993   52.03
20-93              9-7-1993    TSO Table IV
2-94               2-7-1994    TSO Table I
6-94               5-2-1994    TSO Table III
94-8               7-28-1994   TSO Table I
14-95              10-16-1995  TSO Table III
15-95              12-14-1995  TSO Table IV
16-95              1-2-1996    TSO Table I
23-96              6-26-1996   TSO Table III
                               113.01—
2                  2-12-1998   113.07,
                               113.99
7                  - -1998     TSO Table III
8                  - -1998     TSO Table III
9                  - -1998     TSO Table III
10                 11-16-1998  51.12
11                 11-16-1998  TSO Table IV
                               92.02,
                               92.07,
6                  - -1999     92.08,
                               92.13,
                               92.14,
                               92.16
13                 1-4-1999    150.100
16                 2-16-1999   130.02
17                 2-16-1999   32.01
18                 3-1-1999    31.08
19                 4-9-1999    31.02
                               115.01—
20                 5-3-1999    115.10,
                               115.99
                               90.090—
21                 6-7-1999    90.094,
                               90.999
22                 8-2-1999    50.04,
                               50.05
24                 9-20-1999   30.07
26                 10-18-1999  TSO Table IV
28                 3-20-2000   96.11
31                 5-15-2000   TSO Table IV
33                 7-17-2000   51.06
34                 9-5-2000    TSO Table IV
38                 10-16-2000  TSO Table IV
37                 11-6-2000   71.12
39                 11-20-2000  32.21
40                 12-18-2000  71.09
23                 2-5-2001    71.11,
                               71.99
27                 - -         150.102
44                 7-24-2001   51.06
45                 8- -2001    33.05
47                 5-6-2002    TSO Table IV
48                 7-1-2002    120.01—
                               120.12
51, Second Series  9-3-2002    52.09,
                               Ch. 52, Appendix I
52                 11-4-2002   150.086
                               117.01,
53                 3-3-2003    117.10—
                               117.17
55                 4-22-2003   53.01,
                               53.02
56                 5-19-2003   TSO Table III
61                 10-6-2003   54.01,
                               54.02
64                 11-3-2003   TSO Table IV
65                 12-1-2003   150.100
66                 12-1-2003   TSO Table IV
68                 12-1-2003   TSO Table IV
                               117.01,
70                 12-15-2003  117.10—
                               117.17
71                 2-2-2004    93.01
72                 2-2-2004    TSO Table III
73                 3-1-2004    121.01—
                               121.04
74                 5-3-2004    111.33
76                 6-21-2004   TSO Table I
79                 8-2-2004    TSO Table III
81                 9- -2004    50.04
                               153.01—
85                 4- -2005    153.19,
                               153.99
88                 7-18-2005   92.07
89                 8-15-2005   50.06
91                 11-7-2005   TSO Table IV
63                 3-6-2006    95.01
                               150.110,
                               150.116—
                               150.118,
94                 5-1-2006    150.122,
                               150.123,
                               150.125—
                               150.132
                               153.02,
96                 8-7-2006    153.10,
                               153.11
99                 11-6-2006   TSO Table IV
100                11-6-2006   30.21
101, Second Series 12-4-2006   153.15
2007-002           2-20-2007   Adopting Ordinance
2007-003           2-20-2007   TSO Table IV
2007-005           3-19-2007   96.04
                               90.72,
2007-006           4-16-2007   111.05,
                               111.34
                               52.25,
                               90.025—
2007-007           5-7-2007    90.030,
                               90.045—
                               90.057
2007-008           6-4-2007    118.01—
                               118.17
2007-010           6-18-2007   51.06
2007-012           9-4-2007    94.02—
                               94.08
13                 9-4-2007    52.25
2007-014           9-17-2007   111.33
2007-015           12-17-2007  111.32
2007-017           1-7-2008    111.99
2008-002           7-21-2008   92.17
                               51.05,
2008-004           11-3-2008   51.06,
                               51.12,
                               150.001
2008-005           11-17-2008  90.001,
                               90.002
2008-006           11-17-2008  90.010
2008-008           12-15-2008  150.102
2009-001           2-17-2009   32.21
2009-005           6-1-2009    TSO Table I
2009-006           6-15-2009   94.03
                               123.01—
2009-007           6-15-2009   123.27,
                               123.99
2009-009           7-6-2009    130.05,
                               130.99
2009-011           8-3-2009    90.002
                               52.21,
2010-01            3-1-2010    52.25,
                               52.26
2010-06            10-4-2010   TSO Table III
2010-07            10-18-2010  50.04
2011-02            1-18-2011   31.20
                               116.01,
2011-18            12-5-2011   116.02,
                               116.05—
                               116.09
2012-01            1-3-2012    TSO Table I
2012-02            4-2-2012    92.16,
                               117.14
2012-06            8-6-2012    TSO Table IV
2012-07            9-17-2012   73.03
2012-09            8-20-2012   122.06,
                               122.10
2012-10            10-1-2012   90.093
2012-11            10-15-2012  153.11,
                               153.14
2012-12            11-19-2012  TSO Table IV
2012-14            11-19-2012  TSO Table IV
2012-15            11-19-2012  TSO Table IV
2012-16            12-3-2012   TSO Table IV
2012-18            1-22-2013   TSO Table IV
2013-01            4-1-2013    TSO Table IV
2013-02            4-1-2013    TSO Table IV
2013-03            5-20-2013   90.028
2013-04            5-20-2013   TSO Table IV
                               31.22,
                               150.086,
                               153.02,
                               153.11,
                               153.14,
                               153.17,
                               154.010,
                               154.020,
                               154.031 —
                               154.035,
                               154.041 —
                               154.052,
                               154.061,
                               154.062,
                               154.081 —
                               154.086,
                               154.091 —
                               154.096,
                               154.101 —
                               154.106,
                               154.111 —
                               154.116,
                               154.121 —
                               154.129,
                               154.131 —
                               154.136,
                               154.141 —
                               154.148,
                               154.151 —
                               154.159,
                               154.161 —
2013-05            5-20-2013   154.167,
                               154.171 —
                               154.177,
                               154.181 —
                               154.184,
                               154.191 —
                               154.199,
                               154.221 —
                               154.230,
                               154.241 —
                               154.260,
                               154.281 —
                               154.297,
                               154.301,
                               154.302,
                               154.311 —
                               154.316,
                               154.321 —
                               154.325,
                               154.331 —
                               154.341,
                               154.351,
                               154.352,
                               154.361 —
                               154.364,
                               154.371 —
                               154.378,
                               154.381 —
                               154.389,
                               154.391 —
                               154.394,
                               154.999
                               154.020,
                               154.084,
2013-06            7-15-2013   154.094,
                               154.104,
                               154.114
2013-07            8-5-2013    TSO Table IV
2013-08            10-21-2013  111.20,
                               111.22
                               151.05,
                               151.08,
2013-10            12-2-2013   154.125,
                               Ch. 154, Table A;
                               Ch. 154, Table B
                               154.020,
2013-11            12-2-2013   154.142,
                               154.152
2014-01            1- -2014    TSO Table IV
                               153.02,
2014-02            5-19-2014   153.09,
                               153.11
2014-03            5-19-2014   Ch. 154, Table B
2014-04            5-19-2014   153.13
2014-05            5-19-2014   Ch. 154, Table A;
                               Ch. 154, Table B
2014-06            5-19-2014   TSO Table IV
2014-07            6-2-2014    31.21,
                               31.23
2014-09            7-7-2014    154.164,
                               154.174
                               31.22,
                               150.086,
                               153.02,
2014-011           8-18-2014   153.11,
                               153.13,
                               153.14,
                               153.17
2014-10            8-4-2014    94.09
2015-03            3-16-2015   31.23
2015-04            3-16-2015   70.04,
                               70.08
2015-06            5-4-2015    154.061,
                               Ch. 154, Table C
2015-07            6-1-2015    Ch. 154, Table A
2015-08            7-6-2015    92.30,
                               92.31
                               113.01—
2015-09            7-6-2015    113.03,
                               113.08,
                               113.09
2015-10            8-3-2015    TSO Table I
2015-13            12-7-2015   154.326
                               154.085,
2016-01            2-1-2016    154.095,
                               Ch. 154, Table A
                               154.020,
2016-02            2-1-2016    154.259,
                               Ch. 154, Table A
                               125.01—
2016-03            6-6-2016    125.05,
                               125.99
2016-04            8-1-2016    154.053
                               114.01—
2016-05            11-7-2016   114.15,
                               114.99
2016-07            10-3-2016   154.020,
                               154.313
                               154.020,
                               154.114,
2016-09            12-5-2016   154.134,
                               154.142,
                               154.225
                               154.143,
2016-10            12-5-2016   154.146,
                               154.157,
                               154.225
2017-01            5-1-2017    32.02
2017-02            7-17-2017   125.04
                               154.164,
2018-01            --2018      154.147,
                               Ch. 154, Table C
2017-03            11-16-2017  92.30,
                               92.31
                               154.134,
2017-04            12-18-2017  154.145,
                               154.155,
                               154.394
                               150.111—
                               150.115,
2017-05            12-4-12017  150.119—
                               150.121,
                               150.124,
                               150.131
2017-07            1-2-2018    124.01—
                               124.19
                               154.164,
2018-01            --2018      154.147,
                               Ch. 154, Table C
2018-01            1-2-2018    71.09
2018-02            1-2-2018    121.04
                               154.146,
2018-05            3-5-2018    154.147,
                               Ch. 154, Table C
2018-06            5-7-2018    115.04
2018-07            5-21-2018   TSO Table III
2018-08            7-18-2018   90.012
2018-09            6-18-2018   30.03
2018-10            7-8-2018    154.225
2018-11            7-2-2018    TSO Table IV
2018-12            7-2-2018    Ch. 154, Table A
2018-13            7-16-2018   TSO Table III
2018-14            9-17-2018   154.144
2018-15            9- -2018    TSO Table I
2018-16            10-15-2018  TSO Table I
2018-18            11-5-2018   73.08,
                               73.09
2018-19            11-19-2018  TSO Table III
2019-01            2-19-2019   150.114
2019-03            4-15-2019   111.22,
                               111.38
2019-05            10-21-2019  TSO Table IV
2019-06            10-21-2019  TSO Table IV
2019-09            11-18-2019  154.173
                               Ch. 124,
                               151.05,
                               154.020,
                               154.048,
                               154.085,
                               154.086,
                               154.095,
                               154.096,
                               154.106,
                               154.115,
                               154.116,
2020-01            2-3-2020    154.121,
                               154.126,
                               154.167,
                               154.177,
                               154.199,
                               154.224,
                               Ch. 154, Table A,
                               154.313,
                               154.322,
                               154.324,
                               154.325,
                               154.375
2020-03            6-1-2020    154.224
                               154.020,
                               154.046,
                               154.173,
2020-04            11-16-2020  154.175,
                               154.177,
                               154.373—
                               154.375
                               113.01—
                               113.03,
2020-05            9-21-2020   113.05—
                               113.08,
                               113.99
                               90.001—
2020-06            10-19-2020  90.011,
                               90.999
2020-07            12-7-2020   154.153
                               153.10,
                               153.13,
                               153.14,
                               154.020,
2020-09            1-4-2021    154.033,
                               154.047,
                               154.048,
                               154.125,
                               154.500 -
                               154.526
2021-01            2-1-2021    153.11
2021-02            2-1-2021    Ch. 154, Table A
2021-03            3-1-2021    154.020
                               124.04,
2021-04            3-15-2021   124.06,
                               124.19
2021-05            3-15-2021   96.10
2021-06            5-17-2021   TSO Table IV
                               154.061,
                               154.131—
2021-07            5-17-2021   154.136,
                               Ch. 154, Table C,
                               154.225
                               154.020,
2021-08            8-2-2021    154.322—
                               154.326
2021-10            9-20-2021   71.12
2021-11            9-20-2021   150.102
2021-12            9-20-2021   90.999
2021-13            9-20-2021   154.999
2021-14            8-2-2021    154.086,
                               154.096
2021-15            11-1-2021   30.02
                               153.11,
2022-01            2-28-2022   154.334,
                               154.335
2022-02            5-23-2022   30.21
2022-03            5-23-2022   TSO Table IV
                               154.020,
2022-04            7-11-2022   154.142,
                               154.143
2022-05            8-8-2022    154.291
2022-08            12-12-2022  150.112,
                               150.121
                               154.020,
                               154.134,
                               154.145,
2023-01            2-13-2023   154.152,
                               154.153,
                               154.155,
                               154.225
2023-02            8-14-2023   126.01—
                               126.07
                               154.020,
                               154.145,
2023-03            8-28-2023   154.152,
                               154.155,
                               154.225
                               154.020,
2023-04            8-28-2023   154.172,
                               154.225
2023-05            8-28-2023   154.033,
                               154.524
2023-06            8-28-2023   130.06
2023-07            11-27-2023  TSO Table III
2023-08            11-27-2023  114.12
                               153.03,
2024-02            3-11-2024   153.08,
                               153.11,
                               153.16
                               150.060,
2024-03            3-11-2024   150.061,
                               150.063
                               154.020,
2024-05            9-23-2024   154.143,
                               154.153
                               154.045,
2024-06            9-23-2024   154.052,
                               154.177
                               126.01,
                               126.03,
2024-08            - -         126.05,
                               126.07,
                               126.08
                               154.020,
                               154.142,
2024-09            - -         154.152,
                               154.162,
                               154.172,
                               154.225
2025-01            2-24-2025   154.163
2025-04            8-11-2025   111.22
2025-05            8-11-2025   154.324—
                               154.326
                              
 
